ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e43	The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Morten Wold, Geir S. Tuskedal and Sveinung Rotevatern, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the General Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative of Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen from 24 March to 26 March to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris and the Nordic Council of Ministers in Copenhagen from the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Janne Sjelmo Nordås as well as from the alternate representative of the Troms County of Sigmund Steinnes on leave from 24 March to 26 March – all to take part in a trip with the Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation to Tromsø, Karasjok and Kautokeino On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder County: Lene LangemyrFor Finnmark County: Ronny BergFor Nordland County: Willfred NordlundFor Troms County: Christin Kristoffersen
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e105	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e108	On behalf of the big business representatives Marit Arnstad, Jenny Klinge, Geir Pollestad and myself, I propose my own big business message on Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e113	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e129	The aim of the cooperation reform was to develop coordinated services and the treatment of patients across funding and responsibility levels. People would get a good and defensive health offer where they live. The patient’s course between the hospital and the municipality would be simpler and seamless. The interaction reform was implemented on 1 January 2012. Many have gone as planned. Development figures for both resource efforts and activity development show that there has been slightly stronger growth in primary care than in the specialist after the reform. Figures for year-on-year development show that medical competence has been strengthened in municipalities. Several health centres have been built and daily services are available for immediate assistance. But in other areas there is cause for concern. This applies in the first row to the interaction between the specialist services and the municipalities and to the provision of patients who are expelled from hospitals. Every year since 2012, the number of outpatients in hospitals has increased sharply. There were between three and four times as many outpatients in hospitals in 2014 as in 2011. The volume of laydays for outpatients in hospitals has increased by 36 pst. only from 2013 to 2014. Despite the increase in patients who are ready to print, there has been a marked decrease in the number of hospital beds and average hospital stays for the same patients. It has decreased from 8.9 days in 2010 to 6.7 days in 2013. The number of cleanups after printing has also increased. This indicates that patients are sicker and need more care when printing than before. Local authorities also report that the patients they receive are more ill than before. From 2012, municipalities had to pay the hospital NOK 4 255 per day on a day-to-day basis for patients defined as ready-to-read and ready-to- print stays in hospitals. The availability of these patients has been resolved differently in municipalities, but there has been a marked increase in short-term and home-care settings. But the serious thing is that this growth is far from getting along with the increase that one looks out of printable from hospitals. It seems clear that municipalities are under pressure from hospitals to deal with sicker patients, without the local authorities having the resources to build up a decent and well alternative supply locally. The Health Directorate stresses that available information indicates that significant efforts have been made in both municipalities and businesses to provide patients and citizens with treatment and care of high quality, but that the improvement work for more holistic, co-ordinated patient treatment and simpler patient processes must continue and be added to weight and importance. The Health Directorate writes in its report on interaction statistics from 2013 to 2014 that it is serious when a quarter of the hospital staff in the municipalities believe that cooperation with healthcare professionals has been more strenuous after the reform and that there has been a serious failure in the implementation of the systems that have been adopted and underpinned the patient management. The control committee in Trondheim has recently discovered that seriously ill and nursing patients who are being sent home from hospital without the municipality being warned. The Trondheim audit shows that the deviations that have had serious consequences for patients. Several media headlines also support the fact that similar relationships occur in other places in the country. The fact is that a very unfortunate, unwanted and paradoxical effect of the Cooperation Reform is that elderly, sick patients with great needs have been sent home without the local community being informed. The reverse of the cooperation reform is that elderly sick patients appear to be transported more than before between hospitals and hospitals, not because of medical or nursing conditions, but because of economics. Patients across the country are sent out of hospitals earlier than before; they spend shorter time in hospitals before being defined as ready-to- print, and they often return to hospitals after outsourcing. The figure is 7 000 more refurbished in 2014 than in 2011. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 8 February 2015 you can read about a woman in the late 90s who dies in the ambulance on the way to the hospital, after her third hospital stay in a few months. It is completely unworthy to send people as a package back and forth in this way, to express the patient and user environment in Hordaland, which was subsequently contacted by the family of women. The family was upset. They are among many who have contacted patients and users. They react to very old family members being sent back and forth between hospitals and hospitals. Many have passed 90 years and have a few years to live. It is a well-known fact that the transport of older debilitators can, as a rule, cause the elderly to become confused. Therefore, unnecessary transport is very important to avoid. The move back and forth between health institutions and deaths during transport or immediately after transport to the hospital is an unworthy situation that should upset more people. It is obvious that the Interaction Reform, when it comes to ready-to-write patients, has not been successful. The payment obligation has led hospitals to change their printing policy to spend money. It's the elderly, the weak patients who pay the price. It's time for action. In order to avoid unworthy transport of the sick and to prevent a development with financially initiated hospital discharge, a grip is required. Firstly, a directive requiring hospitals to change the new and tough printing practices established after 2012. Secondly, the payment obligations should be removed. She seems, as the situation is, against her purpose. Thirdly, the capacity and quality of elderly care needs to be strengthened. Base crew must be up. More laymen must work in a nursing home. Medical skills must be increased. One important reason why sick elderly people are unnecessarily hospitalized is that their competence or staffing is not adequate at the hospital where they live. The only thing defensive in many situations is putting the patient in, because the option would be worse. Patient and user housing registered 1,209 cases concerning hospitals in 2014. This is an increase from the previous year of 35 pst. Patient and user environment reports in the 2014 Annual Report on Lack of Sickness Homes, Poor Quality of Health Care and Unworthy Services. Sickness home provision is largely lacking, leading to the lack of medical care for individuals, and basic guarantees of legal certainty are set aside according to the patient and user environment. While there are variations in the quality of home care services, it is pointed out, such variations are themselves a signal that changes are required and a more targeted management is required. For those who receive an unsatisfying offer, there is little comfort in getting good help from others. The Ombudsman calls for concrete measures to ensure that the provision of medical care in Norway is consistent with the fundamental objectives of the Patient and User Rights Act. If we are to get the Interaction Reform to work after the intention, it must also work for ready-to-print patients. Then we have to stop and focus on the real situation in the municipalities and start the bet where the need is greater. Every year, the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights publishes a yearbook on the human rights situation in Norway. The 2013 Yearbook found that there are major human rights challenges in Norwegian hospitals. In the Yearbook, it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘Both 2013 research and supervisory reports, as well as recurrent and serious media issues, indicate that residents of hospitals experience a lack of care and lack of necessary health care.’ So lack of care, malnutrition, coercion and assault can happen. Poor time and understaffing are factors that cut the highest when asked what the cause of neglect might be. Of course, we're going to get the good work done out there, but we need a debate on the supply of our crippled elderly. My question is what the government will do to ensure the quality and dignity of the hospital supply and avoid unnecessary transport of sick elderly people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e162	Interpellant interventions were rarely a strong settlement with its own government’s main health reform and its ability to implement it. It's rare for a listener to settle with his own policies. But I would also like to thank the representative Toppe for putting important questions on the agenda. The problem that travels is very complex. It is both about hospital printing practices and about the quality of the provision in the municipalities. The intention of the cooperation reform was proper treatment in the right place at the right time. Three years after the reform was introduced, it is timely to ask if we are on the right track and what we may need to do to adjust the rate. One main objective was more holistic patient courses, but several studies suggest that some patient groups have had a more elaborate course. We know that the number of days spent after the patient has been defined as ready to print has fallen since the reform was introduced. It was a desirable development, but it has always been a prerequisite for patients to have a proper offer in the municipalities. We know that there is some decline in bedtime before the patient is reported ready to print. This may mean that the interpretation of what is a ready-to-print patient has changed somewhere. There has also been an increase in the number of patients who have to be hospitalised again within 30 days. The increase may be due to patients being discharged prematurely and/or the municipalities are not ready to accept them. Studies also show that patients who are being prescribed to municipalities are generally more ill than before and that the complexity of the tasks of health and care services in municipalities has increased. In the light of the documentation I have mentioned, we need to ask whether the definition of ‘depreciation ready’ has changed since local authorities were given the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print. We also need to ask whether the municipalities accept patients without having sufficient capacity and competence to provide a proper offer. And finally, we have to ask if hospitals and municipalities interact well enough with patients who are ready to print. In some places it is very good, but there are too many variations between health regions in the number of laying days for patients who are ready to print and in the number of hospitalisations. The variation may be due to differences related to geography and culture and organisational and competence differences between areas. It is the specialist health service that determines when a patient is ready to print. After the hospital has notified the patient that the patient is ready to print, the municipality should immediately inform them that the municipality can accept the patient. Both the hospital and municipal health and care services are obliged to provide adequate services to patients. If the municipality is unable to receive the patient when he or she has completed the treatment, the municipality must use the funds allocated to pay for the patient to remain in the hospital until the municipality itself has a proper offer. These are funds transferred by municipalities to the framework, from the specialist health service in 2012, to a total of 560 million. kr. The money was to be used by the municipalities to build up municipal offers or to pay for daily stays in the specialist health service to the municipalities had good offers themselves. There is currently no evidence and data base to claim that the system makes the patient unresponsible, but we need more and better knowledge, and I take this very seriously. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has therefore asked for, and received, assessments of the situation and the unmet knowledge needs they consider to be available, both from the Directorate of Health and from the State Health Authority. In 2014 and 2015, the Health Authority carries out nationwide supervision of the interaction on ready-to-print patients. Three pilot inspections have been carried out. The Health Authority reports that their main impression is that few or no complaints or supervision cases have been received concerning ready-to-print patients. There is a need to look at the organisation of municipal health and care services. Before the interaction reform, several patients remained in hospital until they could be printed directly to the home. Today, many patients are offered community housing before they are published, to the home. We see that municipalities turn long-term places into short-term places in hospitals in order to provide ready-to-print patients with a short-term stay until they are healthy enough to be followed up at home. These changes lead to a more complex patient course. This is unfortunate for all patients, not least the elderly and crippled. In recent years, municipalities have been investing in the development of home services. With a strengthened home service, several can be transferred directly from hospital to home. A number of questions have been raised about the competence of municipalities to meet the needs of patients posted from the hospital for municipal services. Often these are patients with complex and complex disorders and with a high risk of complications. In order to find good responses, we also need more knowledge of the provision and quality of municipal health and care services. In order to improve the quality of the health and care sector, the government will launch systematic quality development work for health homes and home care. We're going back to how to do this. Competence is a key challenge in the provision of municipal services. The Government has also announced the development of an action plan for recruitment, competence and professional development of care services, called Competence Plan 2020. The plan shall contribute to a professionally strong care service with adequate and competent staff. Persons with complex needs shall have services of sufficient quality which are well coordinated both within municipal health and care services and between service levels. During the spring, the government is presenting the paper on the future's primary health service. The municipality's offer to those who are sickest is the theme of the message. The interaction reform has been aimed at cooperation between hospitals and municipal services, and the reform has also led to desired changes. But it is clear that we are not on target. Now we need to increasingly look at the internal interaction in municipalities, so that municipalities can respond better to patients with complex needs. The interpellant asks first of all about the provision of services in hospitals, but the municipal offer is also about the offer to people who are followed up in their own homes or in nursing homes. In the upcoming news of primary health services, we are also discussing what to do to ensure that this group of patients receives safer services of good quality. In order for municipalities to be able to provide good services and cooperate well with hospitals in the outsourcing of patients with complex needs, interaction within municipalities must also work. Good municipal services require good management, proper competence, coordination and cooperation within the municipality and, in particular, user involvement. It is necessary to make better use of the resources available to those in need. It requires that we work differently and in new ways. It is about proper competence, good organisation and, of course, user involvement. But to get there, we also need to have good leadership as the ability to build a culture that motivates employees, and that is always designed to provide the best for patients. I will set a good example. It is the project of learning networks for good patient outcomes in municipalities, which is a collaboration between the KS, the Department and the Knowledge Centre. As of today, there are 50 municipalities in the network, and they support each other in developing good patient paths in the municipality. The goal is to improve planning and structuring the follow-up of patients after they have been expelled from hospitals. I want to assure the interpellant that the government is working specifically to ensure the safety, quality and dignity of people receiving health and care services. We're on our way well, but there's still a lot of work to be done. The announcements to be submitted by the government to the Stortinget in 2015 constitute precisely a comprehensive health policy and will point the direction of future health and care policies. We have started work on correcting the mistakes that have been made, and we have started to build up the competence and quality of the municipal care services, which need to be put in place to enable municipalities to solve the new tasks they have been given as a result of the cooperation reform. Our main criticism of the reform when the red-green parties chose to run it through the Stortinget, without interacting with the opposition, was that the municipalities were not well enough prepared for the consequences of the reform. Unfortunately, today's results show that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e198	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. I am met with the fact that I have today strongly opposed the policy of my own government – it seems that I am very easy to meet this interpellation. I underlined in my article – and I have been a champion of the Reform of Cooperation all the way: the intention of it is what is important to realize. But when we see that this intention is not followed up, and what happens out there is not in line with what is the desired goal, it is necessary to take it up in the Storting. There was one reason why we did not introduce the full cooperation reform for all patient groups, including the United Kingdom. not for patients with rush and psychiatry, just to see the effect of and experience with, among others. the economic incentives. Nor have I heard a single political party – neither from the current opposition nor from the current position – go out and be critical of the liability. She's still standing, in spite of the change of government. My point is that economic incentives work, but we don't always know how they work. I mean that the liability now works against its purpose. Governments have many good questions about whether the definition of printers has changed, whether the municipalities are able to accept the sicker patients, and whether the interaction is good enough. I think we have statistics and so many feedback from outside that the answer is actually quite obvious. So the organisation of municipal services. I totally agree with the Council of State that we must also look at those who live at home, of course. But when it comes to the hospital, I take this up especially, because that's where the interaction about an institution supply usually takes place. Governments refer to increasing competence and capacity, organisation and leadership. I'm totally in agreement, but there was one word the council didn't use - it was "capacity". Well, that's the basic crew that needs to be up. Is a single nurse of 32 patients one night and a patient gets sick, does nothing but call a doctor and have him admitted. So the base crew, the capacity, is also important to have, because this is very closely related.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e211	It was in no way my intention to criticize the interpellant to address this question – on the contrary, I commended the interpellant for raising an important discussion. However, it must be quite appropriate to recall who is responsible for the implementation of this reform in the way it was. There's a reform where a request for interaction, but at the time you didn't want to interact with the opposition, which just had part of the objections that one today sees the results of. I fully agree that capacity is important. I also talked about capacity in my post. It is about capacity in terms of space, because what we see is that the interaction reform challenges municipalities to be able to offer a good offer to the other citizens, for example. to those in need of hospitalisation. That is why I am very pleased that the increase in the investment grant that we have been able to achieve in our first budget brings results. The survey that KS has carried out this year, as a result of an initiative from us, shows that over the next four years, the municipalities are planning to increase their capacity in luck and care by 4000 places. What was done in that area in the previous four-year period was less than 600 places. In the period we now go into — the next four-year period — there will be no particular increase in the number of inhabitants over 80 years. This means that this increase in capacity will help to meet some of the challenges that local authorities face, as a result of the cooperation reform, and also to be able to remedy the situation we are in, that too many people today are waiting for happiness and care. So it's also about capacity in terms of manning. Then it is important not only to count the number of hands, but also to be concerned with the competence of the service. For what we see, the municipalities that have a conscious relationship with not only counting the number of people who work at an institution, but also assessing their competence, get a completely different quality of service. That's why the government's priority is to support municipalities financially with over 400 million. kr annually to build on the competence of the services – to provide continuing education and training at a higher level. So it's true that drugs and psychiatry were not part of the financial instruments of the cooperation reform, but yesterday we also got the verdict on the results of it, namely that the annual work in the field of drug and mental health in the municipalities went down in the last year with a red-green government. This is also part of what was warned against, as a result of some of the instruments put in place in the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e222	First, I would like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for once again – she is exceptionally capable of raising important issues – addressing something that becomes known as the annual reports from the patient and user representatives come from all over the country, namely that with ready-to-print patients, it is a challenge. We have become aware of this when we visited the municipalities, for example. routines of printing on Friday create major problems. So that dialogue is not good enough. Then I would like to make it clear that we are getting very good feedback on the cooperation reform. This applies in almost every municipality I visit, and it is especially true when I visit those who work in the health field in the municipality. It's a little worse when I talk to people at councillor and politician level, because they see the challenges of funding and performance. But everyone believes that it is far better for most patients to live in their own homes for as long as possible, that we adapt care provision in that way, that nursing homes are better for very sick elderly people, and they have also developed very many good offers in palliative treatment, where families can be present in another way, and that they feel that they have peace around them at the end of their lives. It is important for the Workers' Party to state that the Cooperation Reform has been successful, but it is an incredibly heavy promise that remains and a long way to go to get all the municipalities up and down, and we have some municipalities that are far better than others. In my own country, I would particularly like to highlight the Mountain Municipality, which has been a pioneer in this field. This week I was visiting the Kvinnherad, and they report that working in the municipality has become more attractive than working in hospitals. It also has something to do with the fact that they have managed to crack the code about where it is attractive to work and build up skills. I react a little to the fact that the minister refers to the responsibility of the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV in the previous period, for ensuring that they are still able to make progress when it comes to expanding a good offer locally, the minister has today. One of the challenges has been to get enough doctors who have the skills of geriatrics and the elderly, who are present in nursing homes, so we don't have to have the unworthy transport back and forth. When we discussed the long-term plan for education and research, we included the Workers' Party. emphasis on increasing the capacity to train doctors, but also on their content. And when you look at the content of the training that doctors get, there are very attractive practice placements in hospitals, but there's almost nothing about the area we're going to build up, which concerns primary health, nursing homes, health centers, etc. In this respect, the Labour Party believes that the Minister has a responsibility to ensure that future doctors and health workers in all areas are interested in the new areas that are emerging and becoming challenges in the future, but not least also a responsibility to ensure that new research and a new approach are implemented, so as to ensure the best possible quality. The representative Toppe stresses that economics has consequences. The minister was also concerned with the consequences that we have put in the economy related to patients who are ready to print, and that it has challenged a lot of municipalities that they have to accept patients sooner than before. At the same time, it has been unworthy that they have remained in a hospital, where the health risk is much greater than if they had been placed in an environment that gives them a much better quality of life, once the municipality has expanded it. The offer in the municipality is also linked to the municipal economy. And when we travel around the municipalities, we see that they are struggling to hire personnel, with operation, and not least with maintenance of the buildings. The working party looks forward to the primary health message, when it comes, and that the government there is able to raise many of these issues, and not least that one is able to make the relationship between hospitals and municipalities more equivalent in the negotiations, because it is the municipality that has the primary responsibility for all the inhabitants and the framework conditions for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e243	It is an important theme that the representative Toppe travels in the Stortinget today. As the debate shows, there are not just isolated incidents that are causing concern in this area. There are a number of reports and supervision confirming that there are demanding challenges, perhaps particularly in the municipal health and care services. I would also like to commend the representative Toppe for raising the debate, but at the same time I must say that I have been and am very disappointed that the red-green government did no more to strengthen the care and health care of the elderly and nursing when they were in government. As you can see, this is a self-declaration from the Center Party in an area that was poorly managed by the government. The interaction reform is a correct and important reform, but we cannot expect it to stand firm unless we equip the municipalities to better meet today's and tomorrow's challenges. Therefore, it is important that we recognise, to a much greater extent, the complexity and breadth of the tasks to be performed by municipalities. Norwegian Nursing Association presented in 2013 a report from NOVA, which examined how municipal health and care services are responding to the increased number of patients being discharged from hospitals. That report was depressing, and it confirmed that all parties, apart from the red-green ones, tried to warn against when the Interaction Reform was introduced. 91 pst. the caregivers confirmed that the tasks had become very complex. 65 pst. by nurses, the proportion of unskilled persons was high. Today, we have 35,000 without health education in the care sector, and only one in four nurses thought that the reform had led to more holistic patient treatment and better coordination. From the day one in government, the Right Party and the Advance Party have started to strengthen and modernise health and care services in order to ensure better coordination of the overall health supply and to develop the important care for the elderly and caregivers. Increased capacity and a greater diversity of offerings to those who need care and care are important, and our government seems to succeed with the necessary pace shift in development, after a sleek growth in the red-green period. Competence and greater multi-disciplinaryness in the service is a very important part of our commitment and considering how we should solve the challenges in the municipalities. That's why there was also something of the first thing our government did about, and we expect to see that it is taken even more important for in the coming primary health message. Hospitalisations may be an expression that patients are being discharged before they have completed hospital treatment, but hospitalisations may also be part of a complex and complex disease picture. Older caregivers live with many diagnoses, and the health situation can change rapidly. There is a kind of imbalance between hospitals and municipalities in many places — in some cases in terms of the definition power of ‘prescription but not yet processed’, and also in terms of competence and the density of expertise. This government is levelling out, and it is doing so by stimulating municipalities to strengthen their skills and build more multi-disciplinary teams in nursing homes and home care. I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Health mentioned home disease care, because we have been able to talk a lot about the situation in Norwegian nursing homes, but we must not forget that very many people get a lot of advanced health care in their own home. When the Labour Party and the Centre in the debate today call for competence in the municipalities, it is important to remember that it was the red-green government that introduced the Cooperation Reform, but at the same time made the Municipal Health and Welfare Service Act professionally neutral. I am glad that our government has announced that it will do something about it. We don't need fewer professionals or less multilingualism in the municipal teams; we need more and more. Then we can't be indifferent to which professions the municipalities have obligations to have in place in their services. For the Right and for the Government, this is the challenge picture we're going to solve. That is why we are now taking greater responsibility for the care of the elderly in the municipalities. We're increasing the appropriations to expand the capacity, we're strengthening the supply of dementia care, and we're stimulating more people to a level playing field. Where the red-green government – at least in the case of municipal services – seemed to rest a little on guard, I think I can say that our government has had busy day-careers from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e266	The representative Kjersti Toppe addresses a problem that we have heard a lot about since the Interaction Reform was introduced. It's not that the problem is completely new, but I think we have to assume that the scale has increased. This was also one of several warnings that came. The Progress Party supported the intention of the Cooperation Reform, but the issue of being a waste of money between two budgets we know quite a lot about, and we warned against. But still, the Progress Party is the only party that wants state funding for the care of the elderly, just to avoid the budgetary struggle between the state and the municipality. Once we have this system, it's important to raise awareness of the levels of responsibility they have. Ensuring that people receiving municipal health and care services or hospital services are provided on a professional basis — and not on a financial basis — is indispensable. There must never be any discussion about it. Interaction reform is about providing treatment, care and care at the right level. I therefore believe that it is very exciting to follow the municipalities that are selected as test municipalities with state-funded care services. The Government Platform states: ‘There is a need to strengthen and modernise the health and care services in municipalities and to ensure better coordination of the overall health supply. Employees are the health care's most important resource and the government will implement a level of competence to enhance the quality of service.» We need to ensure that municipalities have size and robustness enough to handle the tasks they are assigned to them, and we are working for a solid empowerment in the municipal health and care services. This should have been more in place before the Co-operation Reform was rolled across the whole country at the same time. It has meant that some municipalities have done this well, some have worn something, while others have worn a lot. Many municipalities have made the same mistakes rather than learn from the good examples, as pilot municipalities would have contributed. The fact that municipalities now receive a daily fine where ready-to-print patients are waiting for an institution place has increased the pressure and waiting time for those who need a place to take off, short-term or long-term, and we are in arrears – very in arrears. There are probably several reasons why seriously ill elderly people experience being sent back and forth between hospitals and hospitals – sometimes because the hospital may have been out too early. It's not going to happen. Sometimes this can happen because the hospital lacks the skills necessary to take over the responsibility. This could have been avoided if the dialogue between hospitals and hospitals was better, and if the municipalities had been more honest about what competence they have or do not have. Here it is a great responsibility for the municipalities to be honest about what they can and cannot do. If these skills are lacking, they need to be built up in order to better fulfil their duties. The increased proportion of skilled people in the services will contribute to increased quality and to the reduction of the incidence of serious incidents. Sometimes complications or other disease images occur shortly after discharge, which the hospital could not predict. We have to be open for that to happen and still will happen. The Health and Welfare Committee has recently been travelling in the North Trøndelag. Here this was one of the themes discussed. They were very clear that being driven back and forth was not always negative. Their claim was that some people have such complex disorders that they needed a lot of hospital treatment, while they thought that it was not better for the patient to stay permanently at the hospital. The patient, after all, had it better in the municipality, was their claim. Municipalities and specialist health services have a statutory obligation to provide the necessary health and care services. What is a necessary and sound health and care service shall be determined on the basis of an individual assessment of the individual’s needs. Adequate competence and personnel and well-coordinated services are required. In order to succeed in our goal of better coordination of the overall health supply, it is essential that the municipality and specialist health service cooperate closely, and I expect this to be followed up. The very basic idea and the main step towards better and safer services is that services should be built around patients and users. User involvement is not only a statutory right; it is also essential for the provision of the best professional services. The family also, together with the patient, has a right of participation if he or she is not in a position to take care of his or her own interests. Taking the user and family perspective seriously means listening and using their experience to improve services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e297	The interaction reform was to be of benefit to the patient, and we were to ensure the proper use of health care resources. It is quite appropriate to ask at any time whether we have reached this goal or whether there is something that needs to be adjusted. Shorter lay time in hospitals, not enough hospital or treatment places in municipalities and lack of competence in municipalities say only one thing – swing door spaces are out of it. Unfortunately, the history in Bergen's Official Journal is not unique. We who sit in this house, in this room, are facing a problem, and we have it in the middle of the prison. I also had it in my years as rapporteur. As a Christian People's Party representative, I am very concerned about increasing the capacity of municipalities in terms of the number of places, but not least in terms of competences. Printout ready is not the same as finished. So the hospital can decide what the patient should receive from treatment in the municipality when he is not finished. The power of definition – the right to do so – lies with the hospital when you are ready to print. My question is, where are the decision-makers, who know the patient and the situation around? Where are the hospital doctors who also know the patient, perhaps better than the doctor who has treated the patient for exactly the suffering he was in hospital for? The interaction reform has a challenge in achieving the equivalency principle between the municipality and specialist health services. The job done in the municipality is just as important as that done in the hospital, and the principle of equivalency is lacking today. That's why we have to try to build this up in a way that means that in the future we're going to get less of the ball game principle that we see part of today. The dialogue between hospitals and municipalities, and not least between hospital and community professionals, needs to be improved. When we know that the medical staff in the hospital is one doctor per 130 patients, and each of the patients who are in the hospital, on average have seven disorders, we can imagine that it's hard to get an overview when someone comes straight out of the hospital and into an institution, and there's one doctor who has 129 other patients with complex disorders. While in hospitals, you have one doctor per 1.3 patients, and that's often the patients you specialise in. When, in addition, patients are worse when they are discharged than usual before, and a doctor in a hospital is responsible for 130 patients with an average of seven disorders each, it is no wonder that we get the challenge that we actually see in Bergen's Official Journal. I challenge the minister to look at the competence that is in Norwegian nursing homes, because there is no doubt that much can be done in Norwegian nursing homes, and I think that very many municipalities are able to provide good treatment, but then you have to have the right people with good skills, and you have to have the opportunity to get an overview. You don't have that when you have 130 patients you're responsible for. That's where we have to move in first, I think, in order to correct the gap, which concerns the cooperation reform, which I think everyone agrees is important in order to use the resources properly. But then we also have to distribute the resources correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e306	First of all, thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for raising an important debate on dignity in the final phase of life. It's the individual we care about the most, and then it's the great framework for what we're discussing here in Stortinget. The interaction reform was intended correctly, but I also want to claim that it was at the wrong time. We had – and have – the wrong municipal structure. The competence in the municipalities was not rusted for the job they were given, nor was the capacity. So I think it's the way the results we see today, were also wanted – especially from the Workers' Party, I would argue – because when we hear Kjersti Toppe's contributions here today, it indicates that the red-greens did not really agree on all parts of the Cooperation Reform. But I think the Workers' Party wanted that tool to structure the municipalities in a different way and hopefully also to structure the capacity between the hospitals and the municipalities. There is, of course, some intention in the Reform of Cooperation, and all credit to the Workers' Party for it. Then this is also about political priorities in your own municipality. We first of all need to enable the municipalities to do the job. I will once again draw up my own municipality, Gjøvik, which has a red-green government, and which in 2012 had 560 days in hospital. It says something about that they were not rusted to accept the patients who had been treated in hospitals. Then one can see it that way that one acknowledged that the quality was better in the hospital, that one would actually pay for the patients to lie there. That debate has not, however, been a major political debate in Gjøvik, for what happened in parallel, and in front of this, was that the red-greens systematically decided to reduce the number of hospitals and thus their own capacity. Today, average lay time in nursing homes in Gjøvik is six months. In practice, it's a place you die. There are high standards of competence when you have sick patients in a nursing home. Fortunately, Gjøvik has a very good home care and can do good care in the home for a long time. That is in the direction we want one to go, and as many patients and relatives also want: that one should be able to stay at home as far as possible. In the course of the year, the County of Fylkesman has had some instructions to the municipality of Gjøvik to change decision-making practices, from giving place when one had free space to taking decisions when needed. Gjøvik Municipality has tightened up and closed the so-called impositions, but it is, of course, with such a scarce capacity, a demanding situation. So we've been talking about printing practices here. Yes, of course, it is an important part of it when it costs NOK 4000 to leave patients in hospital. But I would also like to focus on enrollment practices, because it says something about what capacity you may not have in a hospital and in a home service when a doctor may not be there, or that the hospital does not have the usual competence to assess when a patient is going to be hospitalised, or does not have the capacity and competence to treat in a hospital. There is still a lot of work here to rust the municipalities. I believe it is absolutely right that the municipalities should be equipped to do that job, but there is one way to go. The obligation to pay is, of course, an important part of that discussion, but so far it is an instrument for raising the debate on it, for structuring differently. Finally, I would also like to point out the relationship between hospital companies and municipalities. Then I will talk again to Gjøvik Municipality, for Gjøvik Municipality, with 30,000 inhabitants, has only one municipal lawyer. When a hospital with a large administration and many lawyers come to negotiate agreements, there is also a major imbalance in the competence between hospitals and between municipalities. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e321	It hurts the president to interrupt when you're about to talk about Gjøvik, but speaking time does apply anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e325	The cooperation reform was an entirely correct reform. Like the representative Ruth Grung, I have received a lot of good feedback that the municipalities have managed to build up good and competent services through the corresponding allocation to meet the tasks. It has become more interesting to work in the community health service and in the care of the elderly. And as a reference to the Council of State, we made a commitment to competence. We increased the annual work by 24 000 in care and care, and 80 pst. in fact, the relevant competence of those employees. I think that's good, but that's not enough. Several people here have talked about their municipalities or municipalities that are known to have worked well or less well. Then I would like to tell you about Mom and Torsken municipality with less than 1000 inhabitants. When Mom was 96 years old and could no longer live at home, she was in a hospital and was going back, there was a room at the hospital available for her. The head of the unit at home said that we can thank the Cooperation Reform, because through the Cooperation Reform, the municipality had just got money to arrange such a room for Mom – and for others who needed it. The municipality could use that money to leave Mom in the hospital any longer, but it was not a good solution either for Mom or for us. It was good that the municipality had used that money to build an offer for Mom. I'm glad. I have also seen, as I have been visiting my mother, that the nursing home has had far more trained than you had a few years ago. It is a matter of having had the possibility of decentralised nurse training and of having been able to train health professionals. It has been important for the little adults, especially the women, in a small, demobilised municipality to be able to live in that municipality and at the same time take an education. It is an important story, which is also part of the Cooperation Reform. That's not what I'm saying to paint the situation. We have huge tasks in special care for the elderly. I've let myself enjoy what's good, but I've also been very frustrated by what's not good. We can play pingpong here from this pulpit about who's to blame for what -- I just think this is a common promise that we have to take. I think Stein Husebø, a well-known superior who was at a recent conference here in Stortinget, said we have to turn the whole thinking around the care of the elderly if we are to get to what we want, and then we have to act afterwards. The Council of State spoke of the co-operation reform being forced through against the will of the opposition. I'll remind him when we'll talk about free treatment over Easter. It's not just against the will of the opposition, it's against the will of the whole of Health Norway, against the will of many patients, against the will of several patients, so it'll be nice to remind the council of what he said today, when we're going to discuss that reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e338	I would like to thank those who have spoken. For me, this is a very important debate. I record that many people, when they debate, look back in time and share blame and honor, but this is an interpellation that has arisen from the situation here and now, speaking from different sources of supervision, among other things. patient and user environment, plus what we read about, of course, as the media tells us. There are some things that have been said that I would like to comment briefly. That it is also unworthy that patients stay in hospitals, I fully agree – that is why we introduced the Cooperation Reform. But the point is that now this has turned the other way around, and the problem is a harder printing policy. We did not create that when we introduced the Cooperation Reform. The fact that cleaning should and must be done also derailed the debate. Of course, many should and must be admitted to hospital, but when in three years there have been 7 000 more cleanings, I think it is clear that there is an unfortunate development, and that many are called swing door patients. That's exactly the concern I'm raising today. When it comes to competence, many have been involved, and there are figures showing that there has actually been an increase in health and medical competence in the municipalities after the introduction. However, it has not kept up with the need, because the printing practices have been harder and the lay time has fallen to hospitals. When it applies to the number of short-term slots, it has increased, said Höie in his post. That's true, but the number of long-term locations has not increased accordingly. My concern is that in large municipalities, like in Bergen, they create what I call transit receptions of sick people, they create departments just to avoid payment, they are not allowed to be there for more than two or three days, and then they are going on to another short-term place. It is quite unworthy for sick elderly people to experience becoming in a way a package in a system to avoid getting the bill. Then it is better that they are a few more days in hospital – that is my point. Municipal structure – yes, but to the representative Kjenseth: The interpellation was raised from an episode in the municipality of Bergen, which is a big city. I have not received an answer to my concern – I can only end with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e355	I just need to correct a manifest misunderstanding of the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen: the cooperation reform was not pushed through against the opposition's will, but there was little will from the government at the time to interact with the opposition in order to improve the reform. One of the main demands of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to interact with the government on the Reform of Cooperation was to get an obliging escalation plan for the rehabilitation field. If we had had had an impact on that, the situation might have looked something different today. Now we are preparing a stepping-up plan for the rehabilitation field. What have we done? Yes, we have reversed the municipal co-financing, which was the main economic instrument in the cooperation reform. It was done from 1 January this year. It was based on the fact that, in the case of older people in particular, municipalities would have to pay when they were hospitalised. There's nothing to suggest that older people are going to hospital too quickly. We have focused more on skills – more money, but also more on higher skills. We have improved our efforts to increase the capacity of municipalities to increase the subsidy that municipalities receive in connection with investments to 50 pst. – the State takes half the bill when the municipalities expand the capacity. We are working to establish a national quality register for care services. We are now working systematically to make hospitals use more of the tools of the Interaction Reform to actually interact with the municipalities, talk to each other. We have, once again, earmarked money for people who are addicted to alcohol in the municipalities, who obviously became the losers because one had such powerful instruments financially on the other patients. We have also spent money to build up the offer in the area of mental health. But we'll do more. We're about to deliver a primary health report, which is just about to respond to the challenges, which I feel is a cross-political agreement that is in the municipal primary health service. It is about more competent services, better management services and more team organisation. We are also working on legalising the right to the care and care of the lucky day, and not least we are going to launch an effort to fund the state care sector. We are also working on an escalating plan for the rehabilitation field. So I think that the representative Toppe has been given an answer to his question through the concrete changes that the government has already made to meet these challenges. However, not least, a few additional answers will be given when a person receives the notification of primary health care for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e368	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e384	In Norway, between 15 and 20 pst. of children and young obese. Obesity and obesity are a global health problem. Obesity increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. These are also the diseases that characterise the disease picture in Norway in 2015. In addition to an increased risk of health and early death, severely obese children often experience inhibition of playing with other children, and as they grow up and become more concerned with their appearance, obesity may also cause additional personal and mental stress. Although it has been demonstrated that early intervention has a good effect on obese children, it is too accidental to offer obese children today, and it is important to help before they develop complications. According to the National Guide, primary responsibility for initiating measures to reduce weight in case of severe obesity and in the event of a risk of accompanying diseases lies with the National Guide, and for referring children or young people to the specialist health service in parallel with ongoing local measures. Regional enterprises have developed different treatment options and the results show that they have the best effect on family-based behavioural treatment for children under the age of 10. The specialist health service finds that many of those referred to have not established a permanent follow-up in the municipality and that many children have gone for a long time without receiving an offer. Research shows that it is far more difficult to reverse the trend for obese young people than it is for children. The child-weight study is the only national study that follows the development of obesity and obesity in the same age group over time. The main findings are that the proportion is stable, but there are large socio-economic and geographical dividing lines among children as well. It turns out that in Health South-East the proportion is significantly lower, while the highest proportion is in Health North. It also appears that the proportion of overweight children is one and a half to two times higher for third-class people living in small municipalities than for those living in large municipalities. That's 30 pst. higher for children of low-educated mothers than of higher education, and 50 pst. higher for children of divorced parents. It is not surprising that there are such socio-economic differences, but I must say that I think the differences are very significant. The differences also apply to gender. There are actually more boys than girls who report overweight when they are 15 years old. Diet and activity are obese, and the study shows that the level of activity has been reduced for all age groups. It's reduced by about 2 pst. for all 11-, 13- and 15-year-olds from 2006 to 2010. Norway is also located in the worst third of OECD countries in terms of physical activity among 11- and 15-year-olds. Family-based behavioural treatment has proved to be a promising treatment provision for children and young people with severe obesity. The specialised outpatient clinics providing this treatment are currently lacking resources to provide adequate training for health sisters and other health workers in primary health care, because they are dependent on this cooperation, and treatment usually goes over several years. This affects the quality, the whole and the effect on treatment. Lack of resources prevents specialist health services from increasing their competence to municipalities for early intervention and prevention of morbidity, especially among children and young people. Experience shows that few people with obesity have been offered weight reduction help from healthcare. There is a great need to strengthen the competence of targeted, effective and knowledge-based counselling. The Health Directorate has a small overview of municipal health services in this area. Nor does the Health Directorate have any obese and obese funding. Surgical treatment must be considered as a last resort. Continuous surgery requires lifelong medical follow-up. Although intensive lifestyle guidance is resource-intensive, it has been proven to be cost-effective. A report from the Knowledge Centre shows that combined lifestyle measures, including dietary change, physical activity and behavioural therapy, can reduce weight. National Council for Quality and Priority in Health Care addressed the question of the surgical treatment of obesity at its meeting on 10 February 2014. The Council recommended inter alia: that good offers of non-surgical methods should be given increased priority. At its meeting in May, the Council shall examine structural measures and how to strengthen non-operational treatment methods, in particular in children, young people and families. In parallel with this, we see that the number of obesity operations for adults has increased significantly in Norway in recent years, from 24 interventions in 2003 to 1890 in 2012. This, I think, is the figures that apply to public hospital services. In addition, there are some private ones. This may be related to the fact that we have improved the quality of the procedure, which results in less risk and less side effects. But for all those involved, it's anyway a serious procedure that makes you have to have medical follow-up for the rest of your life. While operational interventions have a high proportion of input-driven funding, outpatient clinics established by enterprises must compete for the funds from the general framework, where we know that drug and mental health are also priorities. Of course I'm a fan of that, but there's pretty little room to lift it up when we look it up against the need. We know what works to avoid children and young people becoming morbidly obese, and therefore challenges the Minister of Health to take action and do what research shows to help, namely early intervention and prevention. So the question to the Council of State is: Will he provide funding to ensure that seriously obese children and young people provide good and comprehensive treatment and strengthen prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e412	The representative Ruth Grung believes that the lack of resources leads to the failure of outpatient clinics in the specialist healthcare service providing family-based behavioural care to provide adequate training to health sisters and other health workers in the primary health service. I share the representative's concern about child obesity. It is important to strengthen prevention efforts, while providing good help to those affected by overweight and morbid obesity. Treatment of overweight and morbid obesity will have a long-term perspective and will be essentially anchored in municipal health and care services. The treatment must involve several disciplines and target the whole family. The specialist healthcare service shall contribute to the investigation and treatment of severe obesity with accompanying diseases. The investigation must be carried out on multi-disciplinary teams and involve both children and the family. This type of offer is established in several locations in the country, e.g. in Health Bergen, to which the representative refers. Such follow-up takes place over a long period of time as a cooperation between primary and specialist health services. With regard to resource access and funding, I would like to point out that the Right Party government has facilitated a higher growth in hospital budgets than the red-green government has adopted through its eight years in government. Hospital income comes partly as a framework and partly as activity-dependent income. Much of the activity of hospitals, including those linked to cooperation with community health services, needs to be financed through the permanent framework. It is today, and so it will be in the future, even if there may be changes in the funding system. Professional advice is a statutory task for specialist health services. Health professionals in state health institutions covered by the Special Health Services Act or receiving grants for the activities of regional health establishments shall provide advice and guidance to the municipal health and care services and information on health matters required for the performance of their duties. Health regions are responsible for this. In the 2015 mission document, we have asked them to develop a strategy for the sharing of competences and competences between the municipal health and care services in the region. As the representative refers to, we have good experience with family-based behavioural treatments. Nevertheless, we know that it may be difficult to achieve sustainable weight reduction once you have become obese. The most important thing, therefore, is to prevent children and young people from coming into such a situation. I am pleased that national advice on quality and priority in healthcare in 2015 will illustrate how to prevent overweight, among other things. with structural measures. The Council should also look at how we can strengthen non-operational treatment methods, especially for children and young people and their families. In the government platform, we state that the government will strengthen preventive health work, stimulate a healthier diet and facilitate increased physical activity. An easier-to-use service is also a prerequisite for early response to obese and obese children and young people. Health and school health services and health care services in cooperation with kindergartens, schools and neighbourhoods are important venues for this work. In 2014, health and school health services were strengthened by an increase in free revenues of 180 million. kr. The government continued this effort in the year's budget, but has also further strengthened the service by 270 million. NOK – a total of 455 million. kr. Strengthening could contribute to more annual works and through a more accessible service. The Health Directorate is now revising guidelines for meals at school, including the school leave scheme. National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity, located at the Bergen High School, provides communication, advice and guidance to kindergartens, schools and health and school health services. Public health services in the municipality have an obligation to contribute to the public health work of the municipality, where nutrition and nutrition skills are important. The government will follow up on the Education for Welfare Communication, emphasising that health and care professionals should have nutrition skills. With regard to promoting a healthy diet among children and young people, I would also mention marketing aimed at children. The food industry’s self-regulation system has been in operation for more than one year and will be evaluated as planned in 2016. The population is too small and too rare in physical activity. Unfortunately, progress is not in the right direction, nor is it for children and young people. The school covers all children and young people and can therefore provide all students with opportunities for physical activity and thus the basis for health and learning. The government will facilitate schools to ensure pupils’ daily physical activity. It is also an objective to make it easier to choose an active lifestyle in everyday life and leisure. Living and living environments need to be designed to encourage play and physical development, and it must be possible to go or cycle to work, school and leisure activities. The foundation of good health throughout life is built in childhood. It is therefore incredibly important that we trap children with overweight and obesity as early as possible. Promoting good living and prevention of overweight is also a theme of the forthcoming public health communication and the provision of services to children and young people is included in the notification of primary health services. Both messages shall be submitted to the Stortinget in ours. They are important both individually and collectively to provide a better offer to obese and obese children and young people, and not least to prevent them from coming into that situation. It is important that hospitals constantly assess whether they can handle their tasks in a better or smarter way. More and better cooperation with the health services in municipalities is an obvious part of this. Health services are in continuous development and therefore health authorities must regularly review the funding system. I feel that this is a challenge, and that is why I have also given the Directorate of Health a mandate to go through the funding mechanisms for, among other things. to assess potential development needs related to improving cooperation solutions between hospitals and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e446	I liked the last time the Council of State said that he has given a mission to the Health Directorate. Because it is – and all of us who work in health – difficult to lift fields that are not as visible as the field that I take up in this interpellation. And then they need clear signals and governance from us politicians, and not least from a minister, who can figure out measures that make this a priority, when there is so much of our young people struggling with it, and when new research shows that things have such a positive effect. But there's an amazing difference between the results if you catch them before they're ten years old, than when they're young. I've had contact with the environments especially in Bergen, and it's easier to change boys in high school than girls. So it's absolutely essential that we be able to apply the measures much earlier. Otherwise, I think you actually just repeated a lot of what I said in the interpellation, so I don't have so many comments on that part. However, there is an incredibly high level of competence and, not least, when the primary health and public health messages are presented, we expect clear signals of the role of decision-makers towards prevention, because they are linked to this part. Then you made a little visit to the state budget, and then I just want to remind you that the Workers' Party kept its promises from the election campaign and continued the increase, so at least we have put forward a framework that is larger than that. But I don't think that's where the main challenge is. The main challenge is to raise the level of knowledge we have, to combat early intervention against children and young people, and to provide good framework conditions, and not least that there should be an interaction between permanent and health care providers and the provision they receive from outpatient specialist health services. So I'd like to raise a new issue, which you can add when you send over referral to the Health Directorate: it turns out obese children don't have the same rights as other diagnostic groups in terms of increased social benefits days. It makes it very difficult to do family-based behavioral treatment, where patients and families will meet one hour a week for 17 weeks. It is also not permitted to use training money linked to this type of treatment. It is difficult to be freed by the employer when you are completely dependent on the whole family changing their behaviour in this area. So I would also like you to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e457	I agree with the representative that it is the last part of my response that responds to the concrete proposal in the interview, but the interpellation also invited for a broader discussion on this issue. It's worth stressing that we're funding the specialist health service with 50 pst. basic financing. It should provide the basis for carrying out tasks that are not also financed by tariffs or own schemes – and we see that happening. In many places there is an established offer, including, as has been pointed out, in Health Bergen, but we also see that the funding arrangements have an impact on the offers and on how they are organised. That's also exactly why I've given this assignment to the directorate. It will also be interesting to look at the discussions to be taken in the National Council for Quality and Priorities, related to recommended treatment provision for this patient group, because there are more and more who address precisely what the representative Grung addresses here, namely the need to work more systematically with families over time at the earliest possible time. Then it is worth remembering that in the context of the primary health notification we also start our own work on a youth health strategy, which could also affect this area. I'm going to bring along the recordings that the representative makes in terms of training and social benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e470	Thank you to the interpellant, who addresses such an important topic as serious obesity among children and young people. I share this concern and believe it is important to step up efforts in prevention, while providing good help to those who are already suffering from overweight and morbid obesity. It is serious that the number of obesity operations among adults in Norway is increasing. Developments tell us that we have a great need and responsibility for increased prevention in general, with an increased focus on children and young people’s growing-up conditions and health in particular. I would therefore like to talk in my article now about how we can better help prevent obesity and work for better health for children and young people. The foundation of good health throughout life is laid in childhood, and it is therefore very important to capture children with overweight and obesity as early as possible. It was also the interpellant inside. It requires a good health care and school health service, and municipalities are getting better at preventing it. Municipalities need to think more public health in their daily services in general, but in kindergartens and schools in particular. The study Children’s growth in Norway shows that childhood obesity and obesity can have serious consequences for children’s health and that it is a risk factor for adult morbidity. Project manager of the Children’s Growth Study, Ragnhild Hovengen, says that, from a public health perspective, general health promotion and awareness-raising measures in kindergarten, school and the community must be directed towards preventing child obesity with the aim of equalising social health differences from early childhood. The Hovengen also suggests that health centres and school health services have unique opportunities to capture children and families at risk of developing obesity and other health problems, and that they need to be given competence and space for action to carry out their prevention tasks among children and young people in municipalities. Health and school health services in cooperation with kindergarten, school and community settings are therefore our main venues for this work. In response to the inter-pellant, the Minister of Health indicated that the government has already undertaken an important task of strengthening the health and education services of municipalities. Nutrition and nutrition skills are important and something that the health and care services in municipalities have obligations to contribute to their public health work. In order to better prevent obesity in children, it is important that nutrition and the future health of children are taken care of during pregnancy, with good follow-up after birth. A study from the Norwegian mother and the paediatric study also shows that an increase in pregnancy weight affects the risk of obesity in the child. It also shows that obese women have a higher risk of premature birth. Much can be prevented during pregnancy and in the first year as a newborn, but good follow-up in kindergarten and school is important. At least as important is creating good attitudes in families for good dietary information, combined with healthy activities. Large sections of the population are too low in physical activity. It is therefore important to continue work on facilitating better walking and cycling paths. At the same time, schools and kindergartens, covering all children and young people, must be given a better opportunity to facilitate increased physical activity. Fortunately, more and more kindergartens now use nature. The children may use their bodies out in fresh air, jumping, jumping and, not least, climbing trees. Movement in the terrain is good for motor skills and gives children good experiences that make them happy in nature. Here I have some good examples from home that I might mention, but I don't get time, I see. In the Sunnmare post, among other things, it was about effective learning with physical activity at a kindergarten. The school, which has had physical activity as a field of activity for the last ten years, can today indicate increased concentration and learning effectiveness. The school refers to improved school outcomes, increased well-being and, in turn, helps prevent bullying. The school also scores well over the average of the national samples.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e494	I would like to pay tribute to the interpellant, Grung, for bringing an important debate to the agenda. Obesity is a medical condition in which excess fat may have a negative effect on health. Childhood and youth when seriously overweight can be – literally – a heavy burden on the individual. In 2010 was 22 p.m. of the third class of the country in the category of obesity or obesity. I know a little bit about what it's like to be big, or overweight, if you like. I feel that on the body, and I know myself well in the challenges that are constantly being discussed. My appeal is therefore: Do as I say, not as I have done! My weight didn't dampen my childhood and youth activities. I participated in all of them. It was only when the movement was replaced with professional life, meetings and vienna bread, the too many kilos came reportedly – slowly, but surely. And believe me, living here in this house can also contribute to the fact that it's not a slim-fit-model you're looking for if you go into a men's store that specializes in selling clothes to big boys. Children in high school live daily with the feeling that the body does not function until the head wants to be part of activities that other children and young people participate in, such as school gym, running or dancing, have an extra mental strain to live with. It is not a good idea to participate in ballet if there are no age-adapted clothes available. It's not funny for a child to constantly be picked out last to the team at the cannonball in the gym because you don't move fast enough or run fast enough. It in itself feels like inadequacy, and you lose the sense of being part of the social community. We know that mental disorders can cause obesity and obesity, while we know that obesity and obesity in themselves can increase the risk of depression and mental disorders. Treating obesity and overweight in children is not a simple matter. The school is an important prevention arena, but this is mainly a family issue, and we have to get to the children through the parents. Whole families have to change when it comes to diet, but also when it comes to physical activity. Parents must be good role models and set clear limits for their children and at the same time show what joy physical activity can bring. Mestring through fun everyday activities can be walking in the woods and fields, playing football on the loop and walking on foot or taking the bike to get to school. Unfortunately, we do not rarely hear about traffic noise around the country's many primary and secondary schools as a result of parents picking up and driving their children to and from. Unfortunately, this is also done because parents are concerned about sending children out in traffic and in everyday life in general. School is an important arena, where it is essential to give all children equal opportunities for daily physical activity, mobility and positive experiences related to physical activity. The Progress Party has long believed that increasing the level of physical activity in school is a good public health measure to stimulate more physical activity and mastering for children and young people. Increasing physical activity at school strengthens concentration in class hours, and students learn more and thus achieve better results in school are well known in a number of research and sports environments. The absolute best thing is to be able to prevent as much as possible. The government has increased grants for both midwifery and community health services. In this way, I am happy that we can help pregnant and newly-baked mothers to receive guidance when the body has been through a lot of stress, and also contribute to an increased focus on diet and health for this group – and how important diet and health is for their children to have a healthy and well-growth. The school health service will be able to contribute with increased resources to providing school students with advice and guidance on both diet and physical activity, either by health-seekers at school or by means of PPT in the municipality. I also thank the Council of State, which gave a good account. Of course, I am both pleased and proud that the Right Party government has arranged for significant growth in its hospital budgets, which may contribute to increasing attention to the important challenge that the inter-pellant has raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e517	Thanks to the interpellant, who actually invites several debates, both a debate on how the funding of the treatment can affect the treatment choice and a debate on how to prevent obesity in general in the best possible way. Obesity is an increasing health problem, and more and more people in Norway are doing obesity. There was an intervention that was only done in a few years ago, but now there has been a fairly common operation. I noticed that the National Council for Quality and Priorities in the Health and Care Services has addressed this issue, but there is reason to discuss whether this is a desirable development or whether action needs to be taken to reduce the number of operations. The effect of obesity surgery is well documented for weight loss. For many, treatment is successful, but intervention may also have serious complications and side effects, both in the short and long term. National Councils also focus on better public health to combat obesity, and they recommend that non-surgical treatment methods be given greater priority. And then I see that they're discussing whether the indication limit for the operation should be changed, but they're not going to conclude about it. But they indicate that one has done so in Denmark. There is an increased indication limit from BMI over 40 to BMI over 50. The matter being addressed is in principle, and – as we have also seen – there is not a new debate, the fact that funding can affect treatment options. Interpellant notes that a pre-family behavioural therapy, which is a promising treatment provision and does not involve any surgical intervention, experiences a lack of resources to provide adequate training for, among other things. health sisters because it is an outpatient supply, which has a weaker funding than, for example, a surgical intervention. And this is a known issue before medicine: does funding lead to the wrong choice of treatment? That's what I thought there was every reason to look at it. We know that when a patient is sent on a diet course, either in private or in public, the patient must pay himself in the worst case. We have created health centres – it was a good thing with the Collaboration Reform – that we got a big boost. It is used in this context. That's very good. However, in general, I am also concerned about the provision of treatment and the financing of non-surgical treatment of obesity. I hope that you can come back to Stortinget and get a proper assessment of that. Then I have to attach some notes to the primary prevention. What can we do about structural interventions to prevent, at general level, the need for — or assess the need for — obesity surgery? The centre party wants to activate the school as the pre-constructor. A lot of people talk about physical activity, diet and gymnastics as important measures, and I'm in complete agreement. But it is also so that the government party, with slightly varying pluralities, has voted down suggestions for one hour of physical activity in the school. One has voted in favour of the proposal to develop a school meal. Then the government party came to power, removing a free fruit and green in the school. For me, when I hear the nice words that the school is as important as the prevention arenas, it doesn't help with nice words if one doesn't also vote for it in practice – and sympathizes that it actually gets introduced. But I'm glad that at least a lot of health politicians are talking very well about the important things that happen at school, because I'm totally overly overly perplexed that one should be able to reduce child and youth obesity, is a necessity to go in and take action in school, where one reaches all children and young people, regardless of background.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e534	We're probably a long way to agree on the description of the problems, but in terms of the instruments, the story has probably shown us that we're quite disagreeable. I would like to continue a little bit where the representative Top finished. It is said from many quarters that this is also a family matter. Yes, there's no doubt about it, but the big community needs to be much more on the road here to help those who are struggling. This is when prevention, prevention and prevention are the most important. We have had many years of debate on fruit and vegetables at school. There is hardly one thing that has been so ridiculed by the current government parties, especially when they were in opposition – and fruit and green was one of the first things that disappeared when they got in position. The same applies to school meals — the debate around it also became a debate that more or less got a populist impression from those who opposed such measures. But when the interpellant shows how important this is, and how important social differences are also as a variable that affects these problems, there is every reason to point to fruit and green and physical activity in school as incredibly important means of not only getting more learning, but also better public health in our children and young people, and also in the future. This is about priority, it is about putting public health first, it is about putting early action first, it is about giving priority to fruit and vegetables in school, and it is about giving priority to more physical activity in school — not making that kind of thing ridiculous. Then it is about prioritising it rather than repair, rather than waiting and seeing – as there is still too much of it – rather than making fruit and green laughs, and about likening physical activity in school to subjects such as: math and other theoretical subjects, to which there has been a lot of focus. I did a little thought experiment right before I went up to the pulpit. The right-hand side is very concerned with so-called dynamic tax effects, tax effects that most researchers claim will not exist, at least not to a large extent, in the case of, for example, to reduce taxes on wealth for the wealthiest in this country. But think what dynamic health effects and learning effects one could have had if one had spent some of the resources that this government spends on sponsoring Norway's richest, on fruit and vegetables in school and on more physical activity in school! Think of what productivity growth it would bring, and what dynamic effects it would bring! So this is actually about political priorities, too, not just fine words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e545	Obesity in children and young people is a health challenge. Good pregnancy control, health centre, kindergarten, school health service and community health service is something we all agree that we should have. In addition, this year we have an open-air year, which is actually going to be a great prevention measure. But for my part and for the Christian People's Party, this is much more cross-sectoral than just thinking health. Here we have to think about the technical level in the municipalities, here we have to think about plan, here we have to think about how we think about society in the future, in order to be able to prevent it. We also need to look at voluntary teams and organisations that can participate and contribute. We need to look at our planning, in residential areas, at how we set up construction areas for good football courses, for good meeting places, for both physical and mental activity, for walking and cycling paths and for the use of natural areas – not least this year, with the year of the open air. But I also want to take another picture. Those we're talking about here, they hear this very well. Small pots also have ears, there's something called, and to me it's important that we meet this group with caution. Because someone knows what this means, it's them. If someone knows that they have failed, they are. Then we get another question, not just about how we meet them, but about what we want to do. Are we willing to make some unpopular decisions, such as saying sugar tax, like saying something about availability – about where to put the candy, in front of the boxes in the store? – like saying something about relocating goods, saying that lean goods might have a cheaper status than more expensive and fat goods, saying that we should spend money on awareness campaigns, but also give a boost to knowledge for those who are going to meet these young people. I'm an intensive nurse, and last year I got the pleasure of making contributions to the country meeting with the intensive nurses. They said, "It's almost like we don't have the courage to go past the doctors who operate, because we're kind of viewed as a little too big, everyone. They are only getting younger and younger, the ones being operated on.’ Then the question is, have we chosen the easy solution? Are we lowering the criteria for surgery without taking the big fight for prevention? And for our part, in this house, do we avoid making any unpopular choices? It's important that those who are very overweight get surgery, but it's very important that those who are on the way to becoming so big get an opportunity to get good help in good time. So I want to say that I'm very concerned about how we talk about this patient group, and how we meet them, so that they don't become a loser group again in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e561	Thank you to Ruth Grung for having an important debate. I want to start with behavioural therapy, because there is an important debate about funding and treatment methodology. It will meet us to a large extent in the future in health policy debates, not least on group treatment, because it probably works well, is efficient and economically profitable, and therefore we need to make greater use of it. Today, the funding system is largely based on somatic and surgical techniques. We need to have future debates on what are both effective and correct processes. A topic that has not been discussed in detail here today is research related to this. There's also a priority we're doing there, and there's no doubt that behind us we've had a lot of work on somatic and research related to surgery, while we've given less priority to mental health. It is also a relationship that we need to balance – we need to research more about mental health and treatment methods. So to the prevention and what to do with public health. Early intervention is very important for the Left. The joy of activity we think we have to stimulate even more and even earlier than we do today. The school has been mentioned as an arena here, and it is absolutely right that it is important. But we think we already have to put the effort in the nursery. It's about the competence of those who work in kindergarten, and then it's actually a little bit of a debate about sex. It's important not to bomb on the names of exactly this, but it's a fact that boys and girls relate a little different to play and physical activity. Therefore, the number of men employed in kindergarten is also part of the debate — to stimulate physical activity and to learn to master and enjoy activity early. That's why kindergarten is at least as important as the school for the Left. School leisure schemes are also an important part of the debate. Some municipalities have been very successful in introducing sport SFOs or other activity-based SFOs that are driven by sports. We believe that facilitating the provision of activities to different organisations is important. The centre party Kjersti Toppe was in the debate about one hour of physical activity in school every day. It's possible that it's ideal. Today, it is demanding to introduce. It's both a debate about what skills we're going to have in school today and what skills we're going to give priority to, and it's demanding to recruit capacity to put this into practice. But starting with several physiotherapists, several ergot therapists, several sports educators entering school, are clearly priorities that the Left wants. The same is true naturally enough in kindergarten. The Christian People's Party Bollestad was about nutrition and sugar. It is also one of the important debates we need to take. Governments have talked a lot about salt and fat – and all credit to him for it – but we must also start the debate on less sugar and how to reduce the sugar content of our food. In total, this is also about strengthening nutrition skills in different arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e578	Thank you so much for an incredible number of good posts – and not least courageous posts and posts. I really want to highlight two things – I don't want to repeat, because it came so very well – but there are two things. One is about the responsibility we have for the most vulnerable people. It's a challenge, on the one hand, to balance the knowledge we have, to reach out in the right way, while on the other hand we know that there's a lot of body fixation – there's a lot of young people on the platform too, so we get to include them in this debate – and important to be happy in and accept your own body. At the same time, we need to be able to apply preventive measures aimed at those with morbid obesity, without stigmatising them. Then I also realized that there are some socio-economic very significant outcomes. It is important to develop a policy for the universal actions that we know works best, while at the same time being able to meet those that need to be given priority. We've been in economics. We know that economics may be the best management tool we have, but it's often also very slow in such a context. The second — which is also a challenge for the Council of State when it comes to developing and sewing together the messages that come in the spring on both prevention and primary health — is that very much of what we know has an effect on health is outside the field of health. It is about being able to catch it, while at the same time becoming obligating and giving a new direction to prevention and development of good health. I would like to thank you for the debate and for a very broad commitment in the Chamber. I think that's incredibly good, I know that from other debates as well. I look forward to the things that come during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e593	The debate has initially evolved into a more general debate on public health. That's good. There is a debate that Stortinget also gets the opportunity to get back to quite soon, when the government promotes a new public health report. The message will, of course, address many of the issues raised in the discussion. It will also do something else that is important, namely to equate mental health with physical health. It's just as important to have some friends to talk to when you get to school, like going to school. It's actually as important to have some good colleagues at work when you get to work, as to ride to work. And it's as dangerous to be lonely as smoking. When we work on issues related to equalising social inequalities in health, which this is, in essence, often about, it's also important to take the perspective that our mental health is as important as our physical health, both in terms of quality of life and in terms of years of life. When we look at what is a main explanation of social inequality in health in Norway, it is very closely related to education. One of the most important things we do in the field of public health is to strengthen the school. If we look at international studies on what is most important for the school to function as a social cohesion arena and thus contribute to public health, it is the teacher's competence. It's completely unambiguous. Of course, both physical activity, meals and fruit and greenery are important, but there is nothing more important for social cohesion than the teacher's competence. Then it's worth noting that that's also what's this government's main field of action in school policy. We have increased the grant for continuing training of teachers from 600 million. kr annually to over 1,2 billion. kr. In 2013, there were 3,900 teachers applying for continuing training. In 2014, it was up to 8,400. This is an important part of public health policy, which is precisely about equalising social inequalities in health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e604	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e620	Safety is health. That is why the Health Committee, when dealing with the State budget, under the preparedness chapter, clearly stated that the objective of health preparedness is to protect the lives and health of the population and to contribute to the necessary health care in the event of wars and crises and in the event of disasters in peacetime. The Committee stressed that health preparedness has a dual function. The most important is to ensure that the community has reaction and management capability when serious incidents occur. The second is to ensure that the population is confident that the authorities have the competence and capacity to be there when the situation so requires. So security is also health. The report of the 22nd July Commission points out that we have a learning need in relation to the follow-up of survivors and relatives, warning, communication and information systems and the need for national guidelines on cooperation between emergency situations, as well as the need to further develop plans, procedures and competences. The Directorate for Health, Regional Health Enterprises and the State have been given responsibility for implementing measures, but in addition, there is a need to strengthen national competences in crisis psychology. Over the past 25 years, Centres for Crisis Psychology in Bergen have introduced the field of crisis and grief competence that has improved the care of children, adults and families both in Norway and internationally. The centre was the first to shed light on the children’s situation as mourning in Norway. From the early 1980s they have researched children and grief – a pure pioneer work. It has, among other things, improved the situation of children as patients or relatives in the intensive care units. Over several years, they have surveyed the situation of survivors after suicide, child accidents and sudden infant deaths, laid the groundwork for what Norwegian municipalities have to offer, and aggregated information on how survivors — both children and adults — feel safe across the whole country. The Centre is a unique mix of clinical practice, research and outreach information and guidance. The Centre is the Norwegian competence environment with the most direct experience in crisis and disaster management based on daily work on crises and traumas. They span a wide range of areas, ranging from complicated grief among children, families and adults, suicides, social networking, cohabitation and children living with family violence to the major national and international crises resulting from terror, war and natural disasters. They were engaged by Statoil following the terrorist attack in In Amenas, and the centre of the bisto after the Estonia accident, the disco fire in Gothenburg and the terrorist acts in Russia. The Centre has assisted in saying all major disasters in Norway – the Torghatten, the Mábo Valley, the Torp hostage drama, the City Air Accident, the Sleipner Sea, the Asta Accident, the Rocknes Sea and the NOKAS River, to name a few. They have been involved in post-work following natural disasters worldwide and have been training health professionals after war situations in most known wars for the past 25 years. They provide advice on how best to organise assistance – for whom, by whom and when – and on important choices regarding ritual markings, assistance to families and assistance to intervention teams such as police, firemen and health professionals and their response to accidents and disasters. On behalf of the Health Directorate, they have worked especially with the survivors, survivors and relatives since 22 July. The Centre has been operated as a non-profit organisation and has cooperated with numerous public authorities and non-profit organisations. They have developed information material websites, written over 20 books – most about children, and many have been translated into other languages – and nearly 300 professional publications. They have ongoing research on network intervention for families with a cancer parent, they are researching survivors after 22 July and also on the dissemination of death messages on behalf of the Health Directorate. We know that loss and trauma can disrupt and destroy lives. In addition to health costs and the risk of reduced quality of life, it may impair working capacity and reduce the chances of achieving education that would otherwise be achieved. Losses and traumas are therefore a public health challenge. Caring can have serious health consequences and the area of care is being given more and more attention. Normal sorrow we will all experience in life, and many experience complications in grief. People who experience death are waiting to be met in a good way, whether by emergency workers, health professionals in a hospital or in hospital, crisis teams, church staff or others. Most people do well without professional help, I also have to get more precise, but we have to have good referral procedures for those who need specific help, so that they get help early. Some losses and traumas, which after rape, cause problems for so many that follow-up should be connected from the very beginning. It is thus a unique competence and a unique network built around the initiators Atle Tieregrov and Jakob Inge Kristoffersen since 1988. Today, there are 34 people with different links to the Centre, and most are funded through different projects. A more systematic build-up of skills and recruitment is needed. Norway has a unique professional environment, both nationally and internationally, that needs more predictable frameworks to ensure recruitment of new researchers, better coordination and guidance, and to become part of a national crisis preparedness. A National Centre for Crisisepsycology based on this specialised environment should be established in Bergen. Public basic research will provide better assistance to more people, guidance, education and development in the field of grief, crisis and trauma. Basic research will also provide an opportunity to prioritise the public health perspective even better than they have done up to now. The question is: Will the Council of State provide for the establishment of a national centre for crisis psychology — they are approaching retirement age?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e646	The follow-up to serious incidents affected is a central element of society’s overall capacity to deal with crises and disasters. Ensuring good follow-up is a priority task for healthcare. Accidents and other crises or disasters, whether at community level, or affecting individuals and their families, pose challenges in the follow-up and treatment of physical and mental trauma. The competence of the health and care services for the follow-up of trauma victims was generally strengthened in the Roadmap for Mental Health through the establishment of regional resource centres on violence and traumatic stress. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress was established in 2004 to enhance competence in the field of violence and trauma. Centres for Crisis Psychology in Bergen have been involved in and organised the professional follow-up following several of the major disasters that have hit Norway in the last ten years, and they have assisted in a number of major disasters abroad. The Centre has built up good skills in crisis situations and has complicated grief. In order to meet the need for emergency action after 22 July, the Health Directorate asked for assistance from several professional environments, including: Centers for Crisis Psychology. I have noticed the Centre's desire to become a national centre of expertise for crises and complicated grief. I am also aware that the Health Directorate, in order to take advantage of the competence of the Centre, entered into an intention agreement with the Center for Crisis Psychology to cooperate to exploit the Centre as a national competence environment. Due to the organisation of the Centre as a limited liability company, it has not been possible to provide direct financial support to the Centre by public authorities. The establishment of Centres for Crisis Psychology as a national competence centre therefore requires a changed organisational form. Such an establishment is also a budgetary question. I expect the representative to understand that I cannot pre-empt the budgets for the future. Research on the consequences of terrorism on 22 July is very important. Several projects were launched quickly after the event, with public funding. Within the current budgetary framework, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has considered it necessary to give priority to the continuation of these projects. At the same time, research funding should be ensured as far as possible through the ordinary research funding systems – this in order to ensure the independence of research, quality requirements, relevance and overall priority of health and care research. Therefore, the Norwegian Research Council and the regional health enterprises should be important actors in terms of funding and research linked to 22 July. It helps to ensure that quality and stability issues are assessed and addressed. This government prioritises mental health. We have reintroduced the golden rule and ensure that specialist health services give priority to mental health protection and drug treatment. We've strengthened the municipalities' free revenues by 100 million. kr to raise municipal mental health work, and we continue to bet on recruiting psychologists for municipalities. Overall, it provides a strengthened service for people with mental health challenges, both in specialist health services and in municipalities. Competence, knowledge and treatment should be close to where the patient lives. This means that employees in the district psychiatric centres and municipalities must have knowledge of the treatment of trauma. That is why we have given funds to speed up the implementation of trauma-focused cognitive behavioural therapy. This is a treatment method for traumas that have been shown to have a good effect. We need more and more knowledge about how to treat people who have been affected by traumatic events as best we can. Centers for Crisis Psychology have been and are a valuable contributor to the ongoing efforts of those affected and affected after 22 July and after other crises and disasters. As I have said, any transformation of the Centre into a National Crisis Competence Centre will depend both on the organisational form of the Centre and on the further budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e663	Thank you to the Council of State. I interpreted him very positively, because it's true that there are different centers, but there are few that can compare with the broad competence that the environment around Atle Animal Excavation has built up in very many fields. We also see it as unproblematic that they are today organized as a non-profit AS. Some kind of organization has to have, so precisely adapting the organisation we see as completely unproblematic. It is also an important principle, so that there is no misunderstanding, that such national centres should, of course, apply for the ordinary research funds, but there is something about having that basic support at the bottom, so that it is possible to give priority to prevention and be able to do the additional work that they have done largely until now on a voluntary basis. The council must not misunderstand, it was not thought that this would be 100 pst. funded, but it is that basic aid and that they otherwise apply for projects. Today they are totally dependent on project support, and it is a little special that the Danes are involved in financing large parts of their research activity. The Health Directorate has not only commissioned them, they have also challenged them and asked them to apply to become a national centre for crisis psychology. Then I will also focus on it with grief – a quite new area of research – where it is important to balance. It's also taken up Atle Tieregrov, that while we've spent between 30 and 50 million. kr – public kr – after 22 July for survival research, only less than 2 million have been used. kr for research on the survivors. Many of the survivors are still struggling with great challenges, and when we, as a nation, have unfortunately experienced what we have experienced, it is important. We started very well, many places in the country it was given very good support, not least in the region I come from. As Atle Tieregrov is there, he was connected directly. But it is important that we have follow-up research and can benefit from it, both for the directly affected and also in the future, when similar episodes occur, for grief one tackles quite differently, and it is important to know that it can be adapted on the basis of the individual's assumptions. Finally, I just want to say that most of the people I'm talking to think that this center is publicly funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e676	I'm glad that the representative Grung sees me as positive, because I'm positive with the center and the important job that it does, and the significant competence environment that's there. I also refer to the Memorandum of Understanding, to which Mr Grung also referred, between the Directorate and the Centre. There are some practical issues that are important in this context, and finally there is also a question of appropriations – to grant is, as I said, what we are doing in relation to budgets. It is also important that you do not create the impression that the centre is not used today and that the centre is not given a public mandate. According to my survey, since 2012, the Centre has been entrusted with various activities totalling 16 million. kr. Of course, as an important research centre, they have also received a 4.7 million research projects from the Research Council. kr, according to my overview. The Centre also has 5.2 contractual bodies with contract specialists, who also have public funding for their activities. So there is a significant activity in the centre today that has a public funding, but it is quite right that if the centre is to have the status of a national competence centre, it will – in line with the other national competence centres – be linked to the fact that one is also receiving a special state grant in order to be. That is a practical question, but not least an economic one, to which we must come back in the budget. We have recently received the final report of the Research Coordination Group on 22 July. There are also a number of recommendations that we now have to work through, because – in my opinion – it was a wise and important act that the government did at the time, by creating a coordination group that ensures that the research that has taken place and that is to be done further does not involve an additional burden for those who have been affected by this event, that we ensure that the research that is taking place is coordinated, and that research is carried out in such a way that one uses the results repeatedly, so that one avoids burdening unnecessarily those who have been affected by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e691	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer, and I am pleased that he will follow up on the research report that came. That's very good signals. Nevertheless, I want to bring forward the Centers for Crisis Psychology and their desire to become a national knowledge centre. I've been following this story ever since it happened. I'm one of the survivors, and we've been in close contact with the Center for Crisis Psychology ever since this happened. There, in Bergen, there is a competence in the field of complicated sorrow and trauma that is world-leading. They have a wide range of research skills, and at the same time they have broad cooperation with other researchers from around the world. I myself have participated in some of the experience conferences in their research, and what is very interesting is that, in the research they have carried out on the survivors, they have a very high response rate – actually an unusually high response rate. This means that the results obtained through the research have a validity that is very large and that is incredibly important to make this research useful. Because if there's something important about what happened on July 22nd, there's a lot of ways to learn -- learn what's happening over longer periods of time in the case of survivors, what's happening to parents, what's happening to siblings. We also have a good deal of research on survivors, which is important to bring with us. I also think that knowledge about this is extremely important. We need knowledge here in Norway, but the knowledge provided by the Centers for Crisis Psychology is also important to the rest of the world, precisely because the response rate from the survivors is so high. That's why I think helping Centers for Crisis Psychology to form this national center is incredibly important. I hear what the Council of State says about the form of organisation, and I was not aware of that. But I think that organisational form is one thing, but signals that a center can get up are also very important to get. It is also very special for us who are left behind, to experience that the Danes are funding a research on perhaps the worst terrorist incident we have ever had in Norway – that it is the Danes who in many ways ensure that the Centers for Crisis Psychology get a knowledge that we need in terms of how development is for those who are left behind. Me and the state council have talked about this field many times. I'm very happy that you're busy with this follow-up, because you've written letters, which you sent out with the Minister of Knowledge. We were very pleased about that. But we also need your help to get the rest of Kommune-Norway to wake up, to take seriously what you're actually writing about the importance of follow-up. It is not possible to resolve this matter and to see it completely isolated from the research, for the research we receive must also give the municipalities views on the matter: What needs are there for the survivors? And then together, as politicians, we have to try to make this work. But first of all, this with a national research centre in Bergen would have been very good to get good signals about, and not least it should be possible for the Centres for Crisis Psychology to apply for public funds to carry out the important research being carried out on the survivors after 22 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e712	The President recalls that all speeches should be addressed to the President – otherwise thank you for a good speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e715	How we organise the competence and research on crises, traumas and stress is an underlying theme in this interview from Ruth Grung. There are many good settings in Norway that work on this topic, and some environments stand out as unique and central. Centers for Crisis Psychology in Bergen are one of these, Modum Bad in Buskerud is another. The centre of Bergen has a national role in the follow-up to victims after the 22nd of July, and they have also assisted in a number of major disasters abroad. It's bad that it's actually 25 pst. by children, young people and adults who are subjected to violence during their lives, whether they are in childhood or in their youth. Care failures and disasters are part of their everyday lives. We know that such childhood experiences can affect psychological development, and the experience of trauma in children and adolescents can cause mental disorders, learning difficulties, behavioural problems, poor self-image and problems in working in close relationships. The follow-up to serious incidents affected is a priority task for healthcare and it is absolutely necessary to ensure a good follow-up after accidents and other crises or disasters, whether at social level or at the level of individuals and their families. I would like to point out that, in the context of the Roadmap for Mental Health, regional resource centres were established on violence and traumatic stress, and these centres cooperate with health businesses. In 2004, a National Centre of Competence on Violence and Traumatic Stress was also established, precisely to strengthen competence in this field. Norway’s Research Councils and regional health enterprises are important actors in funding research related to 22 July and other research related to stress and trauma. This helps to ensure that quality and sustainability issues are assessed and addressed when the Norwegian Research Council is in place. It is good that there are more academic environments at our universities that are researching and teaching disaster and crisis management, both at society and at individual level. I do not believe that there is a lack of competence in Norway. The challenge is really everyday life coming, and when someone who has been through a disaster or crisis is going to get to school or work. The critical is the follow-up and competence of municipalities in this field. Therefore, the government has strengthened the free revenues of municipalities by over 100 million. kr, just to lift the municipal mental health service. We have also continued to invest in recruiting psychologists for the municipalities. Employees in the district psychiatric centres are also important, and municipalities must have knowledge of the treatment of trauma. The government has also provided funds for empowerment in trauma in the district psychiatric centres. The Centre in Bergen wants to become a national centre of expertise for crises and complicated grief. The Council of State tells us that since the Centre has the organisation it has today, it places restrictions on providing direct financial support. I expect the representative Grung to take this home to the centre. The establishment of a crisis psychology centre as a national competence centre is also a budgetary matter, and I think we need to assess it in relation to other priority areas of mental health and not least professional recommendations. We need national spearheads in these areas, and we may need not only one, but also more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e734	When the accident occurs and the disaster or crisis is a fact, the need for support and conversations is great. Many are at the most vulnerable moment in their lives, and it challenges us as a society on how to provide a follow-up that provides security and care, so that people get the help they actually need. When past life experience and mastering skills are insufficient to deal with the situation, the need is strong to have an apparatus with competent and competent people around them who are prepared and able to provide knowledge-based assistance. In the course of their lives, most people have experienced the loss of someone close to them, and have experienced grief. Grief has no diagnosis – there is no disease – but can still mean great pain to the sufferer. Nearly 45,000 people are struggling more than usual to deal with grief. We could look at the News Channel on Monday that many who have lost a child or a loved one are diagnosed with a psychiatric diagnosis rather than getting the help they actually need, and recognition of grief. Centers for Crisis Psychology in Bergen have for a number of years assisted people who experience crises and traumas, especially loss of closeness. In the context of Norwegian and international disasters, they have assisted enterprises, municipalities and state authorities in planning and implementing follow-up activities for different groups. They have extensive experience in providing help and developing knowledge bases through research and in disseminating this knowledge through, among others. the organisation of courses for several different occupational groups, such as health professionals, teachers, managers, performers, and for ordinary people, among others; through a good and informative website. The whole country mourned the terror of July 22nd. More survived and were close to the disaster, more lost loved ones. Centers for Crisis Psychology helped to implement emergency measures through their professional environment and with their competence for crises and complicated grief. The Health Directorate has entered into an intention agreement with the Center for Crisis Psychology to cooperate and benefit the Centre as a national competence environment. As the Minister of Health has briefed, the Centre is organised as a limited liability company. It has therefore not been possible to provide direct financial support to the Centre by public authorities. Over the years, the Progress Party has fought to strengthen mental health. In the government it is now implemented. In order to reduce waiting times, the government has, among other things, reintroduced the golden rule that mental health and alcohol alone should have greater growth than somatic in all health regions, after the rule was removed by the red-green government. There is no doubt that the Centres for Crisis Psychology have a significant competence that has come — and will continue to be — to the benefit of the community. However, as clearly explained by the Council of State, the organisation of the Centre today prevents the assessment of interpellant demand. The question of such a national centre and its location, in particular, is probably more likely to be of concern to others. Modum Bad may also be a current name to play in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e751	Crisis work and crisis psychology are a central part of our preparedness and our health supply, both before and after major disasters. Centers for Crisis Psychology in Bergen have had and demonstrated a large professional level of treatment, prevention, follow-up and research on very serious crises beyond what we might call the ordinary. It is probably often the case that the lack of follow-up to crises that have been beyond the ordinary has caused persons who have lived through them to be diagnosed differently from what they really should have had because of a lack of follow-up. Norway is a small country, and we need to gather our knowledge and retain the knowledge that this centre has. This centre has built up knowledge and experience and has acquired knowledge over a long period of time. Many of them are approaching the limit of retirement, and we as a society, as part of thinking readiness, can't afford to lose any of what they have, because it's central. It's central -- I've been the head of a large emergency department myself. I experienced being able to use it when I was rapporteur and a parent killer from Oltedal died, and we felt that the crisis centre in Bergen could contribute. It's important for our fire service, for our health care, for our police and for our municipalities. They've taught the police, they've taught the fire service, and they've taught the health service that the staff support guidance is central to those who work in crisis, in order to be able to cope with the crises. At the same time, the centre has had such close contact with the clinic that they have been able to go in and follow the heaviest patients or users. They have given us a tool as to how important the debriefing is, and how much space it has for us to ensure preparedness. The center is used internationally, we know that, both in connection with the tsunami that was, and July 22 with ourselves. But what is perhaps the most central, and which I ask the Council of State to take with them, is the knowledge they have of giving the municipalities experience, research and knowledge of how to deal with the crises that arise in them, when they meet individuals and families in disasters. Building the knowledge that these people possess, and that the centre in Bergen has, we're going to spend a long time building something in parallel when we have a competence. Then we have to look at how Bergen is rusted organisationally – whether they're called an AS or what they're called. The point of the Christian People's Party is that we are able to maintain and maintain the knowledge that we have here. Because that's how they can also be with us when everyday life comes, when the first days after the disaster have settled. They can help the district psychiatric centres and psychologists that the municipalities get to go along the right path with the individual who has experienced a disaster in his or her life – or in a region or national or international – and we need to be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e762	There have been said so many positive things about the Centers for Crisis Psychology in Bergen, and I will not, as one speaks out in the debate, repeat all that, but I can join in everything that has been said about the unique professional environment that is there, and everything they have contributed – both concrete things and research. I understand very well the background of the interpellation and fully share with the representative Ruth Grung's intention and hope in this matter. I want to make it clear that we need such a national center. I'm generally concerned that we're not good enough on standby, and that we need to strengthen this, and that a national centre, which can be located in Bergen, must contribute towards all municipalities and also be a contribution towards the specialist services. I think it is particularly good that the centre today is very concerned with these issues, for example. This means that we need a diagnosis of grief. They are there and have the knowledge to join these important debates. I understand the feedback from the Council so that this is about two things. The budgetary question is of course. When it comes to organisation, I don't know enough about it, but I understand that if it's a corporation, it's not common for a corporation to come from the state budget. The representative Ruth Grung's definition, a non-profit AS, is well a popular explanation, but I understand that there has to be an arrangement for this, formally speaking. I'm not going to say anything anymore. I wish the Council of State good luck. I also perceive that his intention is to evaluate this very seriously, and I hope that Centers for Crisis Psychology can become a national centre and part of the national crisis preparedness. And to say one thing in the end: if the center had a doctor in Oslo, it would have been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e774	I'll probably continue where Kjersti Toppe ended and say it might be an advantage, when we have a Western government council, to look at what's happening there. I think there's been a lot of good posts in this interview, too, and I'm pretty sure the council has got the tape. I also saw his first answer as quite clear, that he initially thought that the environment represented the centre was something that could be built on and that should be taken care of. With regard to the practical form of organisation, you really have to choose what is possible when you operate outside, and then it often becomes an AS for an ideal purpose. So it's going to be relatively easy to organize, so you get an organization that's adapted to what's needed to get basic support and be a national research centre. I also want to raise something that I heard about when I was at the psychiatry in Stavanger last week: Holen school is a school in Laksevåg town area that by mistake was bombed by the English during World War II. Now these students have become retired, and now the mental challenges are coming. And this is also a knowledge: you can carry something through life when you're in activity, but it's below, and you're probably carrying it anyway. We also know from the war that very many have great problems with sleep, etc., so this is knowledge that we have. That's why it's amazing, once we have an environment that's evolved and that's at the forefront of international affairs – then we have to take care of it. As many people have pointed out, it is a good principle in how we should give priority – including in research in general – to lifting areas where we are the best. This does not prevent the establishment of corresponding centres in other areas and being a spearhead, for the ringing effects it creates always work positively. And maybe you should clean up in a bunch of cents that might have survived themselves -- it's also possible to do in such a context. We look forward to the next budget and have to contact the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e789	What I can at least make clear is that I have nothing against Bergen! The second is that I feel that there is very broad political recognition in the Storing of the importance of this environment of competence. This is also an area where we see that there is an increasing need for expertise in our services, and there is an increasing need for research. That is why this is an important area. Then we have to get back to both the practical and economic questions along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e794	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-19.ana.ud500e807	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? That's not the case. - The meeting's been cancelled.
