ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e123	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The former temporarily exempted alternate of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, has again taken up its seat. The called alternate of Sogn and Fjordane counties, Sigurd Reksnes, now takes the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representatives Anna Ljunggren and Bjørn Lødemel on leave from 5 January to 18 March, both to take a master course at the Swedish Defence College from the representative Torgair Knag Fylkesnes on parental leave from 12 January to 20 March; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Nordland: Tone-Helen Toften from 12 January to 17 March For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Bjørn Erik Hollevik from 12 January to 17 March For the counties of Troms: Siv Elin Hansen from 12 January to 17 March
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e182	The representative, Jan Bøhler, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e185	On behalf of the representatives of Magne Rommetveit, Anna Ljunggren, Ruth Grung, Eirik Sivertsen, Marit Nybakk, Karianne O. Tong, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself have the honour of presenting a proposal for a representative on the law on low-emission zones.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e190	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e193	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Breivik, Iselin Nybø, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Toril Eidsheim, Ingunn Foss, Sivert Bjørnstad, Åse Michaelsen, Terje Aasland, Odd Omland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the strategy for the development of fibre cables and green data centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e198	The representative of Trond Helleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e201	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Jonas Gahr Støre, Harald T. Nesvik, Knut Arild Hareide, Marit Arnstad, Trine Skei Grande and myself on a common promise for good integration. I also ask that the proposal be examined in accordance with Article 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which states that it is to be ‘opened to the representatives for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e208	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after that date. 1-12 on the current map has been completed and then total voting after case No. 13 to 17 at the end of the day’s meeting. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e216	Case No. 1–12 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e354	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 1-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e368	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e382	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the submissions of the main figures of the parties and six replies of the members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e393	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control. There has been a busy harvest, as it tends to be with budget. Climate and environment are a broad theme, and there are also many departments. It's been a week since we had a time gap in international climate policy, in the Paris agreement, that sets new targets for international climate work by not just achieving a 2 degree goal, we're going to significantly below 2 degrees. And we're also going to go to 1.5 degrees. There are legal commitments to five-year escalations and reassessments of commitments made by the different countries. For Norway, this means that we also need to step up our efforts – both the efforts we need to make to meet the climate agreement's targets by 2020, and the one we need to achieve the EU's 2030 target by 40 pst. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In this budget, there are many areas where we have increased climate action. It is in particular in public transport, and we are increasing the turnover requirement for biofuels from 1 January 2017 from 5.5 pst. to 7 pst. We introduce an environmental tax on air travel, and we reduce the landing fee by 25 pst. for aeroplanes using biofuels. All new public vehicles, including taxis, ferries, cruise boats and diesel locomotives, shall have low or zero emissions. The Government shall return with measures from 1 January 2017. We attach rights to public charging infrastructure. There is also a consensus between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government parties on a follow-up to the Green Tax Commission, which will be important in order to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. We can not only use carrots, the level of fees must also be raised, and it must be more expensive to pollute. In addition, we have new arrangements. One hundred million. kr shall be used for a system of climate action in municipalities. Here you can get very exciting, and it is a challenge for municipalities how they can use this scheme. You have to go into 30 pst. environmental weight in public tenders, and we strengthen the eco-innovation scheme by 40 million. kr. An important climate action is also to take care of the buildings that are already standing, so in the consensus we also support and strengthen the Riksantikvaren and the Cultural Memory Fund. They have a value creation program, I think especially of Vardø Restored, which is an example of how to use cultural memories to develop a place, not only to preserve cultural memories, but also to strengthen and mobilise the population and also to strengthen the economic base of a place. We have smaller posts in this committee. We provide support to the Norwegian architects' federation, where they can continue to work with environmentally friendly local development. We even have a small sum that goes to the enthusiasts at Landås in Bergen, who have a local effort for climate action, and gives them 500,000 kroner to a national centre. It is also in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, by mobilising widely – businesses, people, local authorities. But it's not just the climate it's about, we have big goals we have to achieve by 2020. We need to stop the loss of biodiversity and natural diversity in Norway. I am particularly pleased that in this budget agreement we have a strengthening of over 200 million. kr to the classical nature protection, where we continue to bet on environmental monitoring with ecological base maps from last year. There is a strengthening of liming, wild game investment, follow-up to the EU Water Directive, and in particular an increase in forest protection by 75 million. kr, in addition to measures in protected areas for priority species, selected habitat types and also on the innovation we introduced last year against marine litter. In the case of international investment, from the government's supplementary adjustment, we're increasing the rainforest rate by 150 million. kr. I'm especially glad that we've also agreed that we're going to spend $30 million. Of these, for a mangrove investment — the blue forest — an innovation that both binds, ensures biodiversity and is a major measure of climate adaptation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e413	On 17 March, the Stortinget representative proposal from Ola Elvestuen was examined by several to provide municipalities with concrete tools to reduce air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. The left was given a majority with all the parties, except the Right and the Advance Party, in order to allow municipalities to limit the use of cars on national roads during periods of high air pollution. Fortunately, the Committee agreed that the government should promote a proposal and provide municipalities with the basis of the Road Traffic Act to establish low-emission zones. The representative of Elvesuen has extensive experience from both city councils and city councils and is well aware of the challenges of air quality from his work in Oslo, I believe. The question is therefore whether the representative Elvesuen is satisfied with the progress in the matter, and that nine months after the decision we have not received anything back from the government. Does the representative think that we should take initiatives to deal with the Stortinget outside the government through a Document 8 proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e420	I am frustrated by both the previous and this government regarding measures against air pollution in the big cities. This with low-emission zones has been on the table for many years. The last government did nothing. At least now we have a decision on Stortinget that we will have the opportunity to introduce low-emission zones. What is important is that there is enough width for the municipalities, so that they can choose the device themselves. I assume that the government actually delivers this matter. I noticed that a document 8 proposal was submitted today, so the Storting must follow up so that we ensure that this goes through. But we have more measures. We can impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry. I see that's a good thing. Then we have the last – which the Workers' Party has not been involved in either – that one must have the opportunity to demand a diesel car ban, and that heavy transport runs around the big cities on the most polluted days. Nor is the Labour Party in place, so that we can make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e427	We've been through a lot in this setting. Earlier this fall we have also agreed quite a lot. One of the things we've agreed on is renewable energy. We've had a strong ambition in this area. We have pointed to the potential that lies in sea winds. We've been asking for a strategy to get the sea win bet on. We have shown that European countries expect investment up to 1 000 billion. kr to sea wind for the next ten years. What does the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left do a late night hour? Well, they choose to pick 5 billion. kr from Statkraft, which means that a few days ago the company decided to set aside the plans for sea wind. The largest industrial engine we have on renewables must therefore capitulate on sea wind, not because it is difficult, not because they don't want it, but because the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left are winged, unpredictable and unable to keep the promises they have given about capital access. Is this a good example of the climate and energy policy we must have in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e434	Now we have an agreement that we're going to bring up a demonstration facility even on sea winds. We're going to have to follow that up. In the case of Statkraft, there is still a strong engine for the development of renewable energy, both in Norway and internationally. In the case of the decision in the United Kingdom, it is divided by two. We're justifying this with the change in the budget. But there are also changes in the framework conditions in the United Kingdom, where offensive support has been withdrawn in the past. As far as the decision itself is concerned, this is a priority within a larger budgetary agreement to which the Left is party and takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e443	We'll get back to sea wind later in the debate, but what the representative just said was wrong. It's clear that while our government was adding 14 billion. kr in new equity for just having long-term, promised this government, with Left and Christian People's Party as supporters, 10 billion. kr over several years, and chose in the negotiations to say no to let Statkraft retain 5 billion. kr in equity. The representative must bear a considerable responsibility that he is now abandoning the greatest sea win. What is the point of demonstration projects if one drops what promotes technological development and learning curves, namely large-scale projects in the UK? I have 13 seconds left. I'm going to ask the question: if it's the case that there's a hurry to get low-emission zones in place, why in the world is the Left voting for a proposal that we demand that the government stop training and that it present a separate case to the Stortinget with measures to improve the air quality of cities during the spring 2016 session?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e450	Quite simply because we have already decided that we should have low-emission zones. I assume that the government will bring this matter forward, and that it has the necessary quality when it comes to Stortinget. Making decisions one after the other does not make one more important than the other. That's the one reason we have. This has been adopted. It's coming. There was exasperation in the previous government. Now we need to push it through this government so that cities can get it to work and use it. Otherwise, what I said was not wrong. I said that State power has not been prioritised by the Left, but we are taking responsibility within a comprehensive budgetary agreement for all parts of that budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e459	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e463	First of all, allow me to congratulate Minister for Climate and Environment Helgesen on his appointment. He has been given a demanding and important role in the government. At the beginning of this debate, we wish him every success in that work. Earlier this fall we have heard repeatedly from several times, among others. by Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, that the government's draft budget responds well to the challenges of the Norwegian economy. I don't think many of the government's budget proposals in that way. On the contrary, I think a lot of people perceived that the government's draft budget did not take into account the labour market and the oil and gas sector situation. I also believe that many of the government's budget proposals have been perceived as continuing to increase greenhouse gas emissions in the future. In these two areas, I think it has only been the government and the government parties who realized that the budget fits into our time. Through the negotiations in Stortinget, a poor budget has been made to get a little better. That's good. All the honors of the Left and Christian People's Party that this time too, for the third time in a row, have stretched the government in the right direction. But it's not like what you've agreed on corresponds to the challenges of our time. It hasn't become a green rate change after the deal. Nor has it become that the situation in the labour market now looks brighter as a consequence of the budgetary conciliation. On the contrary. Unemployment continues to rise, and it is likely that greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise after the harvest climate agreement. This is the real situation. Climate change and the climate challenge are undoubtedly the greatest challenge of our time. The agreement in Paris was a happy step in the right direction. All the honor of Tine Sundtoft and her team in Paris, who did a good job to get a deal. But it is not that the agreement in Paris initially, as agreed, brings down emissions. It is not the agreement itself that does, but the actual act that each country has to do afterwards, that will determine whether we can bring down emissions or not. Policy therefore needs to mobilise society as a whole – businesses, organisations and people – in order to achieve the objectives set. My question, which I hope the government parties can answer, is: Is the draft budget and the budget that is now in place for 2016 an answer to that? Is the budget such that it will mobilise society – businesses, organisations and people – for a change in climate policy? I don't think so, but that's what this is really about. Now we need to ensure that the target satisfaction of government and government parties is replaced by concrete, measurable and quantifiable measures. We have expectations of the new climate and environment minister, not least in view of his work over the last two years, closely related to the EU. Do we now have a rapid clarification with the EU on the framework for climate action in Norway, or do we not get it? There were rumors during the autumn that we did not get an agreement until 2017. This means that this increase is most likely not to deal with concrete measures such as the government has taken — deeply dramatic if that were the case. We have challenged the government to come up with measures to the Stortinget, so that we again get a broad climate settlement in Stortinget. This was rejected by the government parties and the supporting parties. Why? Well, because they refuse to get into a position where they are challenged in the climate area of the Stortinget. This is the reality. It is very difficult to get the government parties to agree – we have seen that on a case-by-case basis. I think it's more difficult in the government than in the Stortinget. The draft budget and the setting that we are now discussing are a clear example of this. In many areas, the Committee has been able to agree on important themes in nature, outdoor life, forest protection, etc. There is good work in Stortinget, but we don't see as good work in the government. We have clear expectations that the current, new climate and environmental minister will change the pace and attitude of working against Stortinget in order to achieve a broad settlement, so that we can achieve our emissions targets in 2030. It will be quite essential that the Biggest can gather on precisely this and create predictability on important issues. When is the last fossil car to be sold in Norway? Is this a central or immaterial question? That's a central question. How are we going to put in place low- and zero-emission solutions within our industries? Is this an important or not important question? It's obviously an important question. We don't know the answer, and at least we don't know the government's position on it. What should be done within agriculture? What should be done to stimulate climate-right behaviour? We have strengthened Enova more than the government and the settlement partners have done in this budget. It is absolutely important that we get good incentives for continuing climate change. In the oil and gas sector, which is now the reason we have record high unemployment and a labour market situation that may be out of control, the government is showing exactly the same paralysis as in the climate. No ideas, measures or proposals have been put forward that will remedy or remedy the situation and strengthen the labour market. I am amazed that one who is going to go into history as one of the longest-standing oil and energy ministers, in a situation where there is almost a recession in the industry, has not made any concrete proposals, either in the state budget or in any other way, or come to the Stortinge to discuss the situation. Any proposal which the opposition is trying to raise is rejected as not applicable, because the market is to be alone. The situation now is that we are at risk of losing valuable competences, competences Norway can use on the way into the low-carbon society and not least to underpin a greener society. It is surprising that the Storting rejected something it decided in 2012 on the climate agreement to put in place full-scale carbon capture and storage plants in Norway by 2020. It is strange that not a majority of the Storting ends up doing this, and that one likewise reinforces the activity associated with carbon capture and storage in the future, after 2020. It's amazing. One could have done that in several ways. Today, we are tabling an additional proposal, which is distributed as a loose proposal – it goes on State power. State power does not have its portfolio in this committee and in this area, but State power is the engine in terms of renewable segment capabilities. It is most remarkable how the government has stood in the budget when they have rejected and deflected State power as our engine to invest internationally in renewable energy. This is what has really happened. That is why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are promoting a proposal that we will have to use Statkraft as an engine in the future to bring out Norwegian experiences and establish Norwegian opportunities within the renewable interface in an international context. It is deeply regrettable that the government and the support parties have chosen to do in the budget negotiations for the current year. We propose this and hope to have a majority for this type of proposal. When government parties talk about migration, there are not so many who understand what they put in the word «transposition». But if we're going to use some of the great things in Norwegian business, the expertise in the oil and gas sector, the oil service industry, what are they going to convert to, and what are they going to find out about new opportunities? It should, of course, be within the renewable element and within the green potential. What could be better than to establish Statkraft as a significant engine outside, which can not least go with the Norwegian supplier industry? Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Labour Party supports the proposal, with the exception of one proposal. Proposal No. 14 shall be withdrawn because the Committee agreed that we had covered the proposal in its comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e497	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e502	I want to start by thanking the representative for making sure that we get a high temperature in this debate right from the start. It promises well for the rest of the day. I am recording that the Labour Party believes that the government has once again delivered a weak climate budget. The party leader Jonas Gahr Støre, on his side, stated that he would make Norway climate neutral by 2030. At the same time, the representative of Aasland here today demands that the government come to Stortinget to make a new climate settlement. My question will then be: What concrete measures, in addition to today's climate change balance, the framework of the 2030 targets, together with the EU, and any massive purchases of allowances abroad are missing by the Aasland representative in the climate policy toolbox? Can the representative provide examples of action he would like to negotiate into a new climate deal, which would enable Norway to become climate neutral by 2030 – in addition to quota purchases?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e511	I can assure the representative that the Labour Party has many concrete proposals that we are committed to bringing into the climate debate. It is quite obvious that we need to be more concrete in our actions and in our approach to emission reductions. A good example is the transport sector. It is great to have a gradual change in the way an interiorr charges are made, but that is not enough. The transport sector, for example, is a long way from doing so. will have reduced its emissions by 40 pst. in 2030 with what is now available. It needs stronger instruments to achieve those goals, and we are interested in discussing with the other parties here on the Stortinget and committing ourselves to it. But I record that it is easier to challenge the Workers' Party through a line than to make an indication of a climate settlement, and then sit us down around the table and challenge each other – because it rejects the Right categorically. I'm amazed at that. As regards climate neutrality in 2030, it is part of the 2012 climate agreement. I expect that the government will actually deliver on it in a short time, so that we fulfill the obligations we have... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e520	The working party of my climate policy must form a framework for all policies. The UN Climate Panel has shown that between 73 and 86 pst. of the world's known reserves of fossil energy must remain in the ground. We've also heard that the Labour Party has clear thoughts about how much must be left in the ground. This, of course, also applies to the Norwegian coal, gas and oil reserves. But the question is, how will the Labour Party achieve such a goal when, on the one hand, one argues against the Minister for Oil and Energy that one has not seen enough measures to take care of the jobs in the petroleum sector, while reducing emissions? We know that it is precisely within the petroleum sector that one has the largest emissions. The batch of workers provided the petroleum message ‘An industry for the future’. Is it now that this industry should no longer be an industry for the future, but should it be an industry in which the light and the liquid are leaching?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e527	It is quite right, as the representative points out, that we believe that climate policy must be a framework around all other policies. I wish that the Progress Party too had that sense of reality, which I regret they don't have. With regard to the oil and gas sector and the future, we clearly believe that it is possible to produce oil and gas in a future perspective where the low-carbon society is a reality. But that means we have to be very clear on what expectations we have for the oil and gas companies and for those who are going to operate on a Norwegian base. It is not inconceivable in a future view that one can pick up oil and gas without having to emit greenhouse gases. It's completely possible. We are concerned with the oil and gas sector, both in a future perspective and not least as the significant foundation it is for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian society in terms of competence. Then it is regrettable that the government chooses to ignore how to maintain competence for a demanding time. For example, one should. immediately opened to amend the legislation on permitting, so as to give a greater opportunity and greater flexibility to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e536	I am pleased that the Labour Party representative says that it is obvious that the Workers' Party needs to develop more concrete policy measures in the policy on climate change in Norway, because the Right has an improper point when they ask questions about what the Workers' Party really wants to do. To put it simply, when we made proposals on the basis of the Environment DG's recommendations on how to achieve the targets by 2020, the Labour Party voted against almost all of the proposals. There were a few of them that we got a majority for, and we've worked on them further to follow up and get the government to work on. But almost all the others voted against the Workers' Party. I would like to say this: several of the measures that the Labour Party voted against have subsequently been implemented by the Left in conjunction with the Government. In other words, it has been easier to bring the government on some climate measures than it has been to bring with it the Workers' Party. Now I still believe that what left has been given is too little, but I do not think this is particularly uplifting for the Workers' Party. So the question is, if we promote new proposals, which are professionally based, will the Labour Party vote for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e541	I think we should recognise that we need many more measures in climate policy and many more opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It's a big and demanding task ahead of us. It is our responsibility to bring the measures into a chain of action. The Environment Directorate has now proposed something like 85 measures on the road towards 2030. There are measures that are most relevant for discussion. In the setting in which we are located, I think it would be most natural for the government to assess the measures proposed by the Environment Directorate and to present to the Stortinget an opportunity to concreteise the measures. It is, in our opinion, a government responsibility and should be done in that way. If the government – to put it that way – chooses to act now, the Workers' Party will promote the proposals that we believe are right, in order to come into a situation where we can achieve our emission reductions in such a way that we commit ourselves to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e548	Good!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e556	The Paris Climate Summit concluded with joy and relief that nearly 200 of the world’s countries were able to come together on an ambitious agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Paris Agreement provides the basis for avoiding extensive and dangerous climate change and enables us to start a global transition to the low- and zero-emission society. Our recently resigned climate and environment minister Tine Sundtoft and the entire Norwegian negotiating team left a solid imprint on the new agreement and contributed significantly in the negotiations. Norway’s central role in the negotiations shows that we have high credibility in climate policy. The combination of ambitious commitments to the national cut and a strong international contribution enable Norway to go with raised its head out of the climate summit and be proud of our contribution. Norway has a good starting point for meeting the objectives of the new climate agreement. Our goal to cut 40 pst. of our emissions by 2030 are also ambitious in the framework of the Paris Agreement. The government and the cooperation parties agree on the broad lines of climate policy, and together we have strengthened the climate agreement. We have to deal with big cuts in greenhouse gas emissions here at home. The government has therefore pointed to five areas of activity in which Norway has special advantages and prerequisites for leading development. These are low-emission solutions in industry, green shipping, carbon capture and storage, renewable energy and transport. The government's proposals for the state budget build up in these areas of activity, and we have further strengthened it through constructive negotiations with our cooperation parties that led to a budget agreement that has a clear green mark. Norway has shown that it is possible to decoupling economic growth from increased emissions, which will be absolutely global if we succeed in achieving the ambitions we have set ourselves in Paris. In Norway, this has not happened by chance; it is due to fantastic natural assumptions, mainly our watercourses, but also offensive policies. Norway may have the best support schemes in the world for the development of climate and environmental technologies, and we have only become more ambitious over the years. ‘Nordic shows that it is possible’ said the head of the International Energy Agency, Fatih Birol, at an event during the climate summit. The Government and the Cooperation Parties therefore continue to strengthen the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund, in order to increase Enova’s economic space for action. This allows, for example: bets such as Hydro Karmøy’s new pilot plant, a facility that will enable the production of the world’s cleanest aluminium. Norway is a renewable country. The continued deployment of renewable energy will be essential for achieving the ambitious climate objectives. But if our renewable power is to be guaranteed a price that makes it profitable to expand, we need to make more use of the power here at home. These include: to facilitate more powerful process industries in Norway and for new industries, such as green data centres. The combination of natural assumptions, such as clean renewable energy, the world’s best climate technology support schemes and workers with high skills, makes Norwegian industry have all the prerequisites for growth. Such developments will be good news not only for jobs and value creation at home but also for the global greenhouse gas accounts. Industry is known as part of the EU ETS, which means that total emissions in this sector will decrease over time. This is good for Norway, and it is good for the climate. Norway has proud maritime traditions, and it is natural that we use our competence to create new low- and zero-emission technologies in shipping. It is not by chance that the world's first, and so far only, electric passenger and car ferries operate in Sognefjord in Norway. The «Ampere» river is proof that the market delivers when requirements are made in combination with good support schemes. «Amps» are partly financed by the eco-innovation scheme under Innovation Norway. Together with the cooperation parties, the government has strengthened the scheme with a total of 145.5 million. kr. We will also strengthen our efforts through other instruments and have given Enova clearer tasks in the shipping and transport sectors. In addition, in order to make it more attractive to bet on electrically operated vessels, the government and the cooperation parties have reduced the electricity charge for all ships in commercial traffic. The Government's proposals for a government budget reinforce the Green Shipping Programme under the Ministry of Industry and Trade and will contribute to more innovation and development. Innovation and new technologies are also important for the established industries. Unlike what more representatives will claim in this debate today, the Paris Agreement does not mean the end of the oil industry in Norway. As part of the quota sector and with the world's most stringent requirements for health, environment and safety, Norway will continue to be a stable supplier in a world that demands more and more energy. Both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency agree that fossil energy sources will be part of the world’s energy supply for many decades to come, and that it is therefore important to focus on developing technologies for the capture and storage of CO2. The Government’s CO2 management strategy is based on a range of activities to develop gas capture, storage and transport technologies. The 2016 State budget will increase the funding for the CLIMIT research programme by 30 million. kr, and there are fresh funds to invest in the testing centre of Mongstad. It is the ambition of the climate agreement for a full-scale CCS plant that underpins the government's investment, and therefore, next year, we will also spend about 65 million. kr for this work. Potential studies are now being carried out on three alternative point emissions to test the full scale in Norway, as well as to seek international cooperation in the EU. Now I've spent a lot of time talking about what we're going to do here at home, but the fight against climate change and cutting emissions is not a Norwegian championship. Norway’s international efforts to combat deforestation and to conserve the world’s rain and rainforests are significant. During the climate summit, Minister of Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft announced that Norway would continue the climate and forest activity by 2030. Climate and forest activities are noticed internationally, and they can show very good results. I am pleased that, together with our cooperation parties, we have further strengthened this important work in the budgetary agreement. Climate and forest spending, the contribution to the UN Green Fund and our efforts to develop renewable energy in developing countries make Norway an international superpower in climate aid. We are about to leave behind a year that has not only been challenging, but partly very difficult and heavy for the Norwegian petroleum industry, and unfortunately there is nothing to suggest that 2016 will be easier. The situation we're in now shows us seriously how oil addicts we've become. For many years, the right warned against the strong two-way division of the Norwegian economy. When the oil price and activity drop dramatically, we pay the price because we didn't start the conversion earlier. Conversion is not something the government has begun to talk about because the oil price fell, but the fall in the oil price makes the need for conversion more acute, and the conversion must therefore take place faster than thought. In the debate on conversion and creating more legs to stand on, we must not fall into the trap of believing that this can only be achieved by cutting off our most important leg, namely the oil industry. The Norwegian oil and gas industry is our most important industry, and it will remain so for many years to come. But right now it's not the strongest engine for growth. The industry is cyclical in nature, but I would warn those who are now celebrating the low oil price and proclaim that this is the beginning of the end of the Norwegian petroleum industry. Firstly, low oil prices are perhaps one of the worst enemies of the climate, and secondly, there will be a need for oil and gas in the energy mix of the future, including what we find in the Paris agreement. However, low oil prices undermine renewable efforts and hinder conversion. Therefore, we have to hope for the price to come up again, both for the industry and for the climate. And then we have to stop focusing on green solutions on continuing oil business. We are not better equipped to carry out the green shift by weakening our main source of income. The Norwegian oil and gas industry is most closely involved in global climate change. The industry is part of the EU ETS, which means that, in cooperation with the rest of the EU ETS, it will cut 43 pst. of its emissions by 2030. In addition, the Norwegian industry is subject to the world’s highest CO2 tax. It thus has strong incentives to hunt for emission reductions, which it also does. As the quota market is tightened in line with the EU climate objectives and the new Paris Agreement, climate requirements for oil and gas activities and other fossil fuels will be even tougher. The Norwegian industry is well equipped to meet these requirements. It is very gratifying that we have set up an ambitious international climate agreement. The problem so far has not been that Norway, and the EU, have not done enough. On the contrary, we've run ahead, and now the rest of the world is reporting. Overall, this agreement can give the Norwegian petroleum industry a competitive advantage by already being used to climate change requirements and living well with them. The global fossil industry will get tougher, and profitability will be challenged. As the targets are tightened, this will also apply to the Norwegian petroleum industry. But what oil and gas must remain in the ground is the seventh and last market and the profitability of each project that will determine. It has been important for governments and cooperation parties to provide a budget of good action packages with exceptional measures to reduce unemployment and keep pace with the Norwegian economy. The government cannot do anything about the oil price, nor can it do anything about the lack of mission and low activity. But we can facilitate conditions through stable framework conditions and new search areas. 23rd concession round must proceed as planned. At the same time, we must continue to invest in research and development in industry, and I am pleased that the government has strengthened petroleum-oriented development and demonstration through the DEMO 2000 programme. This will contribute to increased activity and employment. Extensive industry work is now under way to cut costs, increase efficiency and improve competitiveness. They're about to succeed in this. In one year they have cut costs of between 30 and 40 pst. All the new contract awards for the Johan Sverdrup project also show that the industry is in the process of becoming more competitive. I am happy to see the will and ability of the industry to meet difficult times in a good way, but the industry must become more robust in meeting the fluctuating and lower oil price than it has been accustomed to. I will end by thanking the opposition for constructive cooperation in the Committee's work on the State Budget, and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e609	First we get to congratulate Tina Bru on a very important job, wish her good luck and say that from the Labour Party we look forward to many debates with her and the government parties. So to the question, the world agreed on a climate agreement in Paris. That's very good, but that's when the job has to be followed up. Tine Sundtoft was very clear and clear that the agreement that was reached in Paris must be said for all sectors. We notice then that the oil and energy minister a few days later said that for his field this should not have anything to say. That's why climate work goes so wrong, because you do one thing outside, and then you come home and you say that just like before, we can keep going. So my question to Tina Bru is whether she agrees with Tord Lien that everything can continue as before in his field, or whether she believes that the Paris agreement also has to say something about oil and gas policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e616	I believe that the Paris Agreement does not have any political implications for the oil and gas industry in Norway. But that doesn't mean that it too, like the rest of the fossil global industry, won't have to notice the long-term consequences of the Paris agreement. That being said, Norwegian oil and gas industries are in fact extremely well equipped for the future we are facing with the Paris agreement. They are already paying a sky-high CO2 tax, and they are part of the EU ETS, which means that they should also be involved in reducing emissions. We are well equipped, we have a clear competitive advantage, and there is no reason for this agreement to have political consequences in Norway for the oil and gas industry. It is the profitability of the global market that will determine what development will be like for this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e624	I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate Bru on his position as fractional leader for the Right. It shall be interesting to be able to cooperate in the Committee in the future. The representative referred to the question of the follow-up to the Paris Agreement in his statement. It will be an important topic, and then it is very important that the actions taken, especially at national level, have legitimacy, that they are well thought out, and that we know that they have a good climate impact. In the autumn, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left chose to impose a seat fee, or passenger fee, on aeroplanes. It is a levy imposed on a sector already subject to allowances, namely aviation, and it is a non-fuel charge, which is the real problem. It is a purely fiscal charge, which has no other purpose than to repair the budgetary balance of the budgetary partners. Does the Right believe that it is a serious follow-up, which creates legitimacy for the Paris Agreement and the climate issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e631	I fully agree that climate policy needs a legitimacy in the population if one is to succeed. I don't think we're going to succeed in the transition to a low-carbon society if we're going to make it the worst and the most difficult way for people to be in the climate. Having said that, the government also believes that the polluter-pays principle is a good principle, a principle that should underpin the climate measures we choose to introduce in Norway, and I believe that having a charge on air travel – which is actually a major part of the issue of emissions – is important and in line with a good polluter pays principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e638	I find it fascinating and a little sad that the centre party is now leaving to the EU to reduce Norwegian climate emissions, but it must be their problem – it will be our all. But I want to grasp what Tina Bru – congratulations – said in his post. She said that the EU – and hence Norway, who wants to join – has an ambitious climate policy within the framework of the Paris Agreement. It is actually wrong, and she could not have read article 17 of the agreement, which I therefore read to her: «The Conference of the Parties Notes with concern that the estimated aggregate greenhouse gas emission levels in 2025 and 2030 resulting from the intentioned nationally determined contributions do not fall within least-cost 2 °C scenarios but rather lead to a projected level of 55 gigatonnes in 2030 and also notes that much greater emission reduction effects will be required than those associated with the intention nationally determined contributions [[...]] [[...]] If not one of the four largest emissions is going to go home and cut more emissions, who is going to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e653	Norway’s commitment with the EU to cut 40pst. by 2030 is in line with the 2-degree target. Now we know that the agreement says that we have to pursue even greater reductions and aim for a warm-up of 1.5 degrees instead of 2. This means that, like all other countries, we need to review our targets gradually. It's one of the important things in the Paris Agreement that actually makes sure that this is more ambitious than what we've seen before, and of course, the quota sector should also be involved in this job. There are ambitious targets that already have to be reduced by 43 p.m., and this will be done jointly with the EU. That's good climate policy. The problem hasn't been that we've been hanging out for, we've been running ahead of us. Now the rest of the world has signed up. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e658	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e661	Stable energy supply is the foundation of a modern welfare society and a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. The government will continue to develop the Norwegian energy industry and ensure good and stable framework conditions for the petroleum sector and renewable energy in Norway. Norway has, and will be, a transitional nation within environmentally friendly energy production and consumption, among others. within hydropower, wind power, bioenergy and other renewable forms of energy. Low power prices and prospects for the current surplus in the Nordic market make it difficult to obtain wages in new power projects in Norway. At the same time, low power prices will make it more attractive to establish a new power-generating business in Norway, and will lead to price normalisation in the long term, among others. through the establishment of green data centres and the conversion to the low-emission society. The two new interconnections with Germany and the United Kingdom will strengthen security of supply and provide a better balance of power and added value in Norway. The oil and gas industry is a producer in the Norwegian economy in spite of challenging times with low oil prices. It supports job creation and economic, technological and social development across the country, and will do so for decades to come. The point of progress wants to be clear that the petroleum industry is still the most important industry both economically and when it comes to employment. Continuous development of competence and technology is an undertaking to maintain the activity on Norwegian pedestal and to meet the cross-political objective of increasing extraction rates from production fields. I am pleased that the government is increasing the promise of petroleum exploration in 2016 and that Petoro will also be strengthened. This research provides the basis for the extraction of oil and gas in the most resource-efficient and environmentally friendly way possible. Let me also express my joy at the fact that many of the major contracts, especially for the Johan Sverdrup field, have gone to a competitive Norwegian company. It is also recognised that fossil energy will in the future be subject to emission charges at such a level that it is important to develop good and cost-effective technologies for the capture and storage of CO2. As you know, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is conducting a feasibility study for the establishment of a full-scale facility in Norway, and there are three current point emissions that are to be assessed — in addition to Norway’s willingness to contribute to the realisation of a full-scale facility in Europe. It is proposed to allow a total of 255 million. kr for the research, development and demonstration of CO2 handling in 2016. The size has determined that Norway should join the EU's climate framework, and the Progress Party believes it is very reasonable that we should put ourselves at the same level as our main trading partners, which are just Europe. Furthermore, the Paris Agreement now has a target of getting well below the 2-degree scenario, which will be required for many countries, closer to 195 of the world’s nations, with the first reporting year in 2023. When we can then read in the media that working party leader Jonas Gahr Støre wants zero emission in Norway already in 2030, one might wonder how to think – when 40 pst. the 2030 reduction is considered to be for demand. Are we going to shut down the industry and the oil and gas activity, or what kind of technological revolution is the Workers' Party going on? It would be interesting to get an answer. What is clearly a challenge are reductions in the non-quota sector, with transport and agriculture as two examples. The objective of environmentally friendly transport and of several vehicles and ships on electricity also makes it desirable to stimulate further the production of Norwegian hydropower – in a regime where adequate environmental concerns are taken into account in the development and production process. In that context, hydrogen is also an exciting energy form that is likely to become important in the future. But one has to give something, and renewable energy doesn't come of itself. Finally, I would like to point out a small point in the setting of a fantastic information center in a small building on Sunnmøre, with a fantastic history of Arctic activity, both on land and at sea. It's about the Ocean Museum of Aarvak in Brandal, which this time gets a promise to make sure that disabled people can also visit this amazing centre, where Ragnar Thorseth also has the exhibition, with all the activities he's had through a long life in the same area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e696	After the Paris agreement was concluded, the climate policy spokesperson in the Progress Party, the representative Grimstad, said that the answer for Norway was full speed for Norwegian oil and gas. At the same time, in the line change with Terje Aasland, the representative says that we know that it is in the petroleum sector that we have the large emissions. What are the requirements of the Progress Party for the oil and gas sector in order to reduce emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e702	What we know is that the world produces oil and gas and will do it for many, many decades to come. If we are to reduce emissions globally, the one with the lowest emissions per unit of output must have the advantage of producing and delivering. We see that the International Energy Agency also says that oil and gas will be part of the energy mix for decades to come. The art is finding ways to store, and CCS is an answer to that. But the most important answer is simply that we have a production that has low emissions per unit produced. Thus, for us, it is only to give full gas in the production, so that countries with a higher emission per unit produced cannot let go.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e707	After all, the progress party has been led by the Left to introduce an air passenger charge that is completely meaningless. So it's going to be perceived by people as a rather strange climate action, all the time it's not the fuel that's actually being praised. Had it even been fueled! But when the fee is equal, either a traveler from Oslo to Bangkok, or a traveler from Bodø to Svolvær, people won't understand that kind of fee. Now it is the case that we have the Green Tax Commission, and there are even more tax proposals that the Progress Party will have to decide on, among other things. a meat fee. So today we have a shortage of beef, we import meat that is produced with more than twice as much CO2 emissions, and reducing Norwegian production and then increasing imports will be a very bad environmental policy. Is it true that we are at risk that the Progress Party will also be tempted to join in on such a type of fee? And how does the Progress Party view a possible climate tax on meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e719	I have to say that it's a little strange to get such a question from a party that last year suggested that the entire tax-free scheme should be closed, which allows Avinor to maintain all the aerodromes and aerodromes that one does. With a decrease in Avinor's income of 2.5 billion We know that the consequences of this would be disastrous for the district airports. Therefore, in many ways, I thought that it was somewhat inappropriate to ask such a question. When it comes to meat and the Green Tax Commission's proposals and imports of meat with a greater degree of impurity in order to be produced, this is one of several measures proposed by this Commission. We haven't gone in and concluded here, but basically we think that short-range food can often be the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e726	I thought I'd talk about forest and biodiversity. We don't have one species to lose, and we have thousands of species on our red list -- we've recently been presented with a new red list -- and more species have become more endangered than they have been before. We are in a situation where many researchers claim that we are facing the greatest extinction of species that we have seen since the dinosaurs were eradicated – by the way, eradicated. So what I'm going to ask is, is what's most important we can do to take care of biodiversity in Norway, that's to take care of the forest. In the vote, there is a majority – the Christian People’s Party and the Left, as well as the Socialist Left Party and the other opposition parties – that indicates that ‘today only 2.7 pst is protected. of the productive forest, while researchers believe we need to protect at least 10 pst. ‘The representative considers that, in his proposal for a nature diversity report, the government should provide for a plan protecting 10 pst. of the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e733	Without going into a percentage of protection, I'm going to say that we're all concerned with taking care of nature and the biological deficiency that we see. In tourism, Norwegian nature is a valuable resource that we absolutely need to take care of. But I have to say that it must be a pleasure for the Socialist Left too to be able to get out of a government and see that a new government is already in place after a little over two years of a Paris agreement that is important for 195 countries, including Norway. We're getting in place more things related to climate change and climate change than one managed in the previous government. We know that under the red-green government, emissions increase. Under this government, it's flat. We saw that from a report that came yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e740	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e743	I would also like to congratulate the State Council of Helgesen on new tasks and hope for good cooperation. At the same time, I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate former climate minister on a great result in Paris. Unfortunately, although I was not given the opportunity to be there, I know from previous summits how much work the former minister and the entire Norwegian delegation have done. - Congratulations on that! Now we have an agreement that will enter into force when at least 55 parties have ratified the agreement, i.e. by 2020 at the earliest. Norway has achieved many benefits. The clear footprint was put in the Paris agreement, and now I hope that the government will put an even clearer footprint in Norwegian climate policy as well. The Christian People's Party would like to be part of that team. The UN climate report has also shown that climate change is not happening in the distant future, but it is happening now. That is why the Christian People's Party was expecting an even greater speed in strengthening the climate and environmental measures in the 2016 state budget. The Christian People's Party was clear in its alternative budget. Among other things, we gave priority to: a greener tax system. Fee policy is a suitable tool to prevent consumer behaviour and to influence people’s attitudes. It should be used to move society in an environmentally friendly direction. New technologies and new solutions will make it easier to choose environmentally friendly. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with reducing the appropriations for exploration and seismic investigations. We don't see any reason to look in those parts of the Barents Sea where there's any ambiguity in defining the edge of the ice. In this context, the Storting must adopt a sound management policy in a specific and vulnerable area. Norway will have extensive petroleum activities and production for several decades. Oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil will continue to be a carrier in the Norwegian economy, but the time has come to focus much more on green industries, and oil will have to be phased out in the long term. Norway is the world leader in petroleum technology, and technology also needs to be developed for good solutions, including: offshore wind, wave power and tidal power. There are many positive steps taken in the budget, and unfortunately I do not have time to comment on the individual, but will still comment on some. For the Christian People's Party it was important to reverse the government's cut in forest protection, and we should rather strengthen that arrangement. That's what we got. The budgetary agreement will provide almost as much funding for forest protection as for the entire period from 2006 to 2013. The Christian People's Party has its own proposal where we ask the government to work out a parallel compensation scheme based on the annual growth of the forest. This is in order to increase the rate of protection and to combine protection with long-term income for the property with income from traditional forestry. Increased budgetary resources for water resource management are also important. That's not what we're talking about. It's a long way to go to improve this administration. It's about ecology, it's about sustainable management, but it's also about business opportunities and flood suppression. The Committee agrees on the proposal asking the government to present a case that highlights the status of anadromous salmonids and how to strengthen the management and dissemination of knowledge in order to ensure sustainable development. It's positive. To another area: Christian People's Party believes it is important to build the knowledge database and not least the ecological base map. A knowledge gap for nature is important in order to ensure knowledge-based natural management, and it is an explicit wish of the majority of Storting to streamline planning processes. Natural and environmental values must be properly illuminated and taken into account. It is not easy to choose a theme when the Christian People's Party only has 5 minutes at its disposal, but fortunately the Committee agrees in many important areas. That shows the comments, and I'm very happy about that. The aim of the Christian People's Party's policy is to solve today's challenges without jeopardising the needs of future generations. We're going to be involved in managing the Earth in the best possible way and ensuring sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e773	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e776	In the government's draft budget, there is a massive cut in climate-oriented aid – a total of 1.5 billion. kr – although an overall committee last year provided that the funds for climate and forest management should be at least 3 billion. kr. The Christian People's Party is known for being concerned about assistance. What does the representative think about the government once again proposing to cut off climate-oriented aid, and that the Christian People's Party once again had to negotiate the sums?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e783	Different measures are important for poor countries, and one of them is climate and forest management. Fortunately, there is agreement between all of us on annual funds of 3 billion. kr. We agreed on this in last year's state budget. Then we've had a challenge. We have had huge flows of refugees and asylum seekers who have come to Norway, and probably 9 billion. kr had to be set aside for the State budget. It had to be cut, and it had to be cut also in important posts for the Christian People's Party. That's why I'm glad we got back 150 million. NOK at the post office for logging, but I would also like to say that we still have the ambition to have at least 3 billion. kr annually in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e788	I just want to remind the representative that the government that is now sitting is the Christian People's Party's favorite government – perhaps apart from a government they would have participated in themselves. It is this government's Christian People's Party elected after the election. This is a government that promised mass, both in forest protection and in many other areas, before the elections. One should have reinforced climate action. But the sum total, after three budgets and two and a half years in government, is the dramatic cut in climate aid to the rest of the world and the removal of renewable energy bets, which the whole Storting agreed on when the red-green government set. There is a dramatic under-budget on the coniferous protection, which the representative himself was involved in his speech, and it is a government that has not presented one significant climate action – all of which has been forced either by our part of the opposition or by the representative’s part of the opposition. The question is: Will the Christian People's Party be involved in ensuring that we get 10 pst. deforestation protection as part of the new nature diversity message?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e796	It is always demanding to be a cooperative party – to want more than the government parties put forward. We believe that the budget that is adopted has made us even greener and even more climate friendly than it was originally. I suppose the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has experienced this in other government contexts. In the case of forest protection and 10 pst., there must be a target. I think it's important that we have an ambitious goal, but to set a target and a year I think is very demanding, because then you tie up several governments in the future. This is a long-term measure. But that you get up to 10 pst., I hope that once in the future we will achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e803	The Christian People's Party has supported a government budget that is withdrawing 5 billion. kr in equity from Statkraft, which is the direct reason why Statekraft has chosen to reduce the largest individual Norwegian renewable investment, which had opportunities to open up many Norwegian jobs and large participation for Norwegian renewable industries. How does the Christian People's Party see that we are now going to launch a large-scale sea wind effort – and similar large-scale efforts – when we support the government's cut of the kind of funds that make this kind of bet possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e810	First, I would like to say that the cuts made in dividends were necessary in order to meet the budget, and with the major challenges we face with refugees, which the representative is also aware of – well, 9 billion. kr we would find funds within the framework. In the case of State Power and Marine Winds, I have never been told that State Power lacks equity. Statkraft's choice to give priority to sea wind from a cost-effective point of view must be answered by Statekraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e817	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e820	I think we all know that climate and environmental policies are entering a new phase. The Paris agreement has already raised climate policy higher on the agenda, and it has also changed the mentality, the mood, a little. Suffering about one might say that there are aspects of the Paris Agreement that are not concrete enough and leading enough, at least it has changed slightly the mentality that we had after Copenhagen that it does not benefit, to a question that it is actually possible to do something. I think many people are impatient after we also have to discuss further the individual points of the agreement. Today's attitude from the Committee on Energy and the Environment shows a relatively broad consensus in both the energy side and the environmental side. I believe that this is a good basis for part of the work we are going to do in the next year in terms of, among other things. new climate targets for Norway. Since the last budget debate, a difficult situation has developed for the oil and gas sector and the supplier industry. At such times it is important that the limits of the petroleum industry are established. The Committee's position continues to show broad support for the system we have today. In order to obtain a budgetary settlement in the Stortinget, the four parties chose to increase the dividend from Statkraft to the State by 5 billion. kr by removing half of the capital allocation granted to State power last year. It is regrettable that all the time State power that an industrial actor can just take an important role in launching new, heavy projects that can generate growth in renewable energy. This week the company had to cancel the offshore wind projects because there was no longer a financial framework for the investment. When the government presented its draft budget, there was an increase of 190 million. kr in allocations for flood and scrap prevention. The need for preventive action in this area is very great. We received a reminder of that just a few weeks ago, when the storm of Synne was in the south-western part of the country. When the government's additional proposal was presented, the allocation was reduced by 50 million. kr and thus significantly weakened. The Central Party proposes to increase the allocation in its alternative budget. In the case of the balancing mechanism for transmission tariffs, a significant reduction in this allocation has also been made this year. One has to ask himself if it is such that the government intends to cut out this whole scheme. I will be allowed to remind you that the grant is going to compensate network rental in areas with high transmission costs, and that the scheme is now so marginal that very few users get that kind of compensation. It's a 90-million-priority center. kr in its alternative web-balancing budget. The centre party has also introduced an increase in the scheme of climate adaptation measures in the municipalities by 4 million. kr. We also strengthen a number of other items that facilitate increased local climate action. The centre party wants to contribute to the transition to more climate-friendly solutions. One of the measures is to enable more people to make improvements to their housing, which will also reduce energy needs. That's why we're choosing to strengthen Enova by 250 million. kr and a deduction scheme for energy efficiency improvement in dwellings. In the government's proposal, the scheme has been amended but has not introduced fresh funds. It's not going to be enough for the bet we should have in this area. We also want to include housing companies as housing laws and communities in the scheme. Forests also play an important role in climate policy. Forest is an example of an area where business development and greenhouse gas reduction go hand in hand. I want to use my last minute in a field in the budget area of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, which almost nobody is talking about, but which is very important. It's the cultural memory field. In the cultural memory field, the government has announced that it will go through the so-called 2020 targets in the 2017 state budget, which says that 2005 has given the national objectives for cultural memory work. It is important and legitimate to look at disciplines and to adjust instruments, but in a situation where we know that cultural memory work is underfunded, one must be careful just to say that one should have a review – one must also propose changes and increased appropriations. I would really recommend that the parties in the hall go a little bit by themselves in this area. It may not be the national objectives that are wrong, but the willingness to do something in terms of a cross-political boost in the field of cultural memory. On the part of the Central Party, we are open to any proposal that might come from other parties in this area, but it is difficult to swallow the silence that has marked the Stortinge's debates on the cultural memory field in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e848	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e851	With this, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e856	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e861	We know that we need to cut significantly in emissions in Norway, also outside the quota sector, in order to achieve our climate targets. One of the sectors that need to be involved in this work is just agriculture. Not long ago, we received the report from the Green Tax Commission. It proposes some concrete measures, such as: a levy on red meat. My question to the representative is therefore: is there any of the measures proposed by the Green Tax Commission that the Centre party can see to support? And in that case, or if not, what other concrete measures does the representative see as necessary in agriculture to achieve our climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e866	That is an interesting question, because I think the discussion about following up our commitments is going to be a discussion that is not only about the concrete theoretical measures proposed, but also about the legitimacy and strength of the measures proposed. The weakness of the Green Tax Commission is that it does not take into account distributional effects, both geographically and socially, and that is a problem. If you're going to go ahead with green taxes without looking at the distributional effects they have, it's going to be very difficult. As far as agriculture is concerned, I think it has a lot to contribute and will have a big responsibility for reducing emissions. But a meat tax – firstly, foreign meat production has much higher CO2 emissions, and secondly, 60 pst. of Norwegian agricultural area grass. You can't have chicken and pigs on grass. You can't have plant production on grass. This means that if you're going to use grazing in Norway, you actually have to have sheep or cattle on those areas. You actually have to also produce red meat. Adding a fee then becomes funny.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e876	As Mr Arnstad's representative pointed out, the Paris Agreement will be important in the future. Agricultural emission obligations are becoming absolutely important as they are within the so-called non-quota sector. It'll be interesting to see in the future what can come out of it. The representative was also concerned with reducing the geographical differences in rents. A selection was created that went through this from the industry itself. The selection went through exactly what was needed to achieve a smoothing that was appropriate and that was not down to the halves about for consumers. They concluded – this was a few years ago, and a little later it evens out – that 60 million. kr would be enough to achieve an appropriate smoothing of the network. Well, why would the Center Party spend $90 million? kr on a dithering where the last 30 mill. kr will not have an effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e884	I would first like to take what the representative asks about, namely the question of following up on the climate agreement. The centre party obviously believes that agriculture should take its share, but now let's not exaggerate. Agriculture stands for 9 pst. the national greenhouse gas emissions. Road traffic alone accounts for 19 p.m. and the transport sector accounts for 30 p.m. It is clear that it may be opportune and comfortable to pounce on a small group of farmers rather than attack a large group of drivers, but road traffic is actually ahead of twice the total output of agriculture. When it comes to equalization rates, you might think about it a little bit differently. The scheme is designed in such a way that the higher the amount of funding, the more networked customers will now be. Sense if a sample considers that only the marginality should be reached, the centre party is concerned that the distribution effect is important, even when it is able to reach several of those with high network rentals – including those that are below the points that a sample would have to believe are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e891	First, I would like to say that I appreciate the representative's designation of the importance of cultural memory protection. In the agreement, there is also a reinforcement in that field. But my question is about greenhouse gas emissions. As the representative also said, much of the emissions are in the transport sector. In the transport sector, we probably have to bring down 40 pst. towards 2030. In this budget debate, the centre has used a lot of its power to fight against the environmental tax we are now introducing, namely an environmental tax on air travel. Two years ago, the increase in the rate of mineral oil was just as severe as it was at the time. Then my question becomes: What environmental taxes on transport is the Senterpartiet for?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e898	First, I have to say that I appreciate the representative's comment on the cultural memory work, and it is my opinion that we need to move forward soon, for 2020 is approaching. I hope that when the Committee deals with the budget for next year, we will be able to see a greater degree of breadth and consensus in the Committee to strengthen that area. In terms of climate and national follow-up, I think there are a lot of measures that need to be taken, both in agriculture, in transport and in other sectors. The centre batch is very skeptical at the airport fee, because it's just a purely fiscal charge that's imposed regardless of how much fuel you actually use. Had it been a fuel tax, we should have gone into it more thoroughly. The criterion of the charge must not be that the polluter should pay only. It also has to be that you can change technology. If a fuel tax had been imposed and biofuels also premiered in aviation, a change in technology could be seen, and that would have been interesting. Then it would be possible to assess. That is what we have done with the car charges, which have worked, among other things. in the case of electric cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e905	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e908	I think it's against new Norwegian oil and gas. I'm not an oil analyst, but I've read my economic history, and I sense it's over. I don't know, I can be wrong, but I think I'm right. The oil price is today at $37 barrel. It's been eleven years since it was just as low. Today's oil price is 32 pst. less than the government has laid down in the State budget, and the future price of oil remains below 60 dollars in the barrel until 2024. Of course, this will have more consequences for unemployment than the government has announced. We are affected by Norwegian ill people – not because we are breaking down our own competitive business through excessive oil money use, but because over the last 20 years we have allowed the oil industry to make an increasing share of the investment of gross domestic product in Norway. In 2013, oil was about a quarter of gross domestic product. The oil sector has been our leading technological sector, but at the same time has forced investment and innovation in other industries and made us incredibly vulnerable to the crack that has come – the crack that had to come. So the oil price is at $37 barrel, and it's just Johan Sverdrup of big new fields that are profitable enough, as far as I know. Otherwise it stops. The oil and energy minister refuses to do his duty and answers the Storting on how much money the state loses, for example, that Goliath is delayed, priced and depending on oil prices of an estimated $100 barrel to be profitable. Statoil's acquisition abroad, driven up in Helge Lund's leadership period, appears as a continuous strategic bomb purchase. The director sits back as a billionaire, while the community has to take the bill in the form of billions in depreciation. But isn't the oil price coming up again? Tord Lien thinks so, the market thinks he's wrong, and I think he's wrong. There's four reasons for that: First, it is the climate agreement in Paris, where all countries recognise that climate policy needs to be stepped up because we are miles behind – that is the strongest political signal the world has sent to the fossil and renewable industries. The second, and more importantly, is the drastic fall in wind prices, and especially the sun, because of the use of technology, and it simply does not make animal oil and gas competitive with renewable alternatives in energy production. The exception – and that is the third point – is within transport, where an electric car is still more expensive than a fossil car. But an electric car is really just a battery pack with wheels connected to a computer, and with 40 pst. price fall in the battery packaging market in the last year, according to Statkraft, and expectations of 30 p.m. Price falls each year in the coming years, the electric car will outrun most petrol cars at a price in the course of a decade. Then it's not the high oil price that puts the price in the market, as it has been the last decade, but the cheap oil. Because when the United States produces cheap oil, pines with Saudi Arabia to be the world's largest oil producer and exports oil for the first time in 40 years, it has consequences for the market. It is possible that Saudi Arabia does the same thing as Norway has done in the last two decades, namely pumping up oil as fast as we can while it is still worth it, as Jens Stoltenberg said. But there's a difference between a 2pst.-nation like Norway doing it, and a 13pst.-nation like Saudi Arabia does it. At the same time, I am convinced that the oil from the United States will continue to be cheap. As the committee learned when we were in the United States, only 3-5 pst is retrieved. of the oil contained in the shale layers. I have no faith that technology development is going to stop in the United States. All of this suggests that the downturn is going to continue. We have seen it the whole year, with redundancies in the company after business, and that was dramatic what happened this week, when everyone in Statoil was offered a final package. It's tragic for them. It is even more tragic that the government last morning in Political Quarter spoke down the seriousness of the crisis and mentions this as a crisis only in some parts of the country. The government does not understand the seriousness of Norway, and there has been alarmingly little affected in the debate here today. When Norway had to change from sailing time, many refused to take the need for conversion. This led to economic crisis and banking crisis, massive bankruptcy and unemployment. The need for change is greater today. Therefore, everything we do from this room must be to demand the green technology, to make it more expensive to pollute, to drive technology development by putting it into practice, as Germany has given mankind a gift by driving cheaper solar energy. We in SV do this in our alternative state budget – collective and bicycle betting, industrial conversion, phase-out of fossil energy, research, bet on CCS and marine wind turbines. The government does the opposite, with oil bets, cut off Statkraft's 90 billion investment in offshore wind and no significant new emissions cut. I think it's over. I think it's against new Norwegian oil and gas. The problem is that we have a government that denies the crisis and fails to lead us out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e943	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e946	I would like to – I take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e951	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e956	I think we can establish that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is not an oil analyst, and that it may be a good career choice that he has not chosen that route. The Socialist Left Party is a strong critic of quotas as an instrument in the climate struggle and proposes in its alternative budget to cut the quota purchases sharply. The representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, is even aware of a comment in the vote, where it is said that the issue of allowances is that it is too cheap to meet our climate obligations. You could say a lot about CDM, which has both advantages and disadvantages, but it's probably not a goal to make it as expensive as possible to cut our emissions. However, the new climate agreement, negotiated in Paris, provides for increased use of allowances and other market mechanisms to trigger cost-effective reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. It is in many ways a farewell to plan-economic socialism and a yes to capitalism. How does the representative Eidsvoll Holmås assess the climate agreement at this point and will SV assess its view on the allowance market in the light of the new agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e965	Let me start by saying that the new climate agreement opens up the use of allowances. It does not add up to increased use – it is not explicitly stated in the contract anywhere. On the contrary, in Article 17, it requires countries to go back and update their emission reductions in line with the fact that the needs are much, much larger than the reported plans of the different countries. It is one of the things that the government parties in this debate have refused to take over. I believe that it is a problem that the government we have been too busy to say that we should solve this through quota purchases abroad, instead of addressing the emission reductions that it is absolutely necessary to implement here in Norway. We have a government that – according to its own faculties – has committed itself to trying to reduce emissions to 47 million. tonnes by 2020, but which, according to the Environment Directorate, are not yet in a position to achieve these emissions targets by 2030. That's the main problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e971	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås says he is not an oil analyst. It may be easy to establish in many ways, but it is not that long since the representative Eidsvoll Holmås was involved in producing a petroleum message that said this would be an industry for the future. Now he suggests stopping the search, and that most must be lying in the ground. It has at all been such that what the representative was on for approx. three years ago, shall no longer apply. How does he believe that these industries have the potential to function in the future if the political signals relating to the most important industrial messages, which are important for the country's incomes, are so varied over so short a period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e976	As Oskar J. Grimstad points out, what was presented in the oil message is not the SV's primary position. Now I am promoting what is our position, namely that we believe there is a need for a completely different transformation of the oil industry – into a green renewable society – than what the broad majority here on the Stortingen say. I mean – as I said in my speech – that the broad majority have taken a very negative line for Norway. We've become very unilaterally dependent on oil revenues and employment in the oil industry. Now we see that when the crack comes, we're completely unprepared. In terms of long-term business, I just want to say that Oskar J. Grimstad is not the right man to talk. As late as this reigning period, Oskar J. Grimstad, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, promised to keep 10 billion. kr for new investments in renewable projects, and as late as in this budget they ended up cutting, ending up cutting 90 billion. kr of Statkraft’s project within offshore wind in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e983	I agree with the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that the follow-up to the Paris agreement will have major consequences for the Norwegian oil and gas industry. It must – whether we want it or not – because prices will be lower. That is why we are also facing a major economic challenge. We really need a green shift in the Norwegian economy in the years to come. An important tool to achieve this — both to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to bring about a shift — is a green tax shift. That means that it has to be more expensive to pollute, but at the same time we have to use that income to give tax credits that make it easier for people to make green choices, but that also makes a contribution to a green shift. Then my question becomes: does SV agree that when you increase environmental taxes, you should at the same time ensure that you give tax relief to people most and Norwegian businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e990	The short answer to that is yes, and I could have stopped there, but I will nevertheless continue by deepening two things and pointing out one thing as I think it is a pity that the Left is unable to get to, and as I think it would have been okay that the Left was better to admit, namely that the Left is on a government budget for the third time, but in this state budget it is not at all added that it should be more expensive to use fossil products. The electricity tax is being increased, but the taxes on petrol and fuel are not being increased. That means that this is the opposite of the green shift, by making it more expensive with pure renewable energy, but one doesn't make it more expensive with fossil energy. I think that's stupid, but I agree with the principle that when we increase environmental taxes, we have to do two things at the same time. We either have to use it to support environmental choices and make them cheaper, or we have to give broad tax credits to most people, because we know that you have to get people on a green shift, they don't have to realize that this is unsocial, but that it contributes to distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e997	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1000	The budget adopted by the Stortinget this year contains many good green actions – in research, in technology development, in forest protection, etc. This is good, and it's better than last year, and it's been the last 20 years. Of course, we're not going to worry about that. However, at the same time, greenhouse gas emissions have continued to increase, particularly in the transport and oil sectors. It has also been that we are building more and more food soils, and it has also been that we are building more and more free Norwegian nature. The point of this is to say that the argument that there is a direct link between taking good green single measures and the fact that the green shift at the same time comes from itself, we have a very big empirical that is not right, and this budget is another example that that is not right. What happens next to the good green measures? Well, there are so-called small things, such as reintroducing lead hail in Norwegian nature and opening up a lot of snowmobile rides in Norwegian nature, and the point is: get in conflict with and in the sovereign contempt for everything that is of professional information and knowledge and environmental principles. One once again opens a vierrasé across one of Norway's finest wetlands, the Northern Tyrifjord, without any debate in the Stortinget, despite the fact that the Stortinget decided a few years ago after major and extensive debate and with great seriousness to protect very much of these areas. Yesterday and today we have received the star example of a lack of totality. Yesterday, we were cancelled State Power's sea wind deployment in Scotland, which is the largest single renewable project facing Norway, and the greatest opportunity – not a safe opportunity, but the greatest opportunity – we have so far on the renewable side of technology development and to produce jobs, which can open up a new sector that can produce jobs for those who are going to leave the oil industry. And today we are told that instead another Norwegian state company, Statoil, will spend 8.5 billion. kr to open the Oseberg field. There won't be any green replacement. It won't be cut in emissions of it. And the interesting situation that many have been facing is, of course, that we have just come home from Paris, and we have just received a new Environment Council – congratulations to the Environment Council Vidar Helgesen, who takes over at an exceptionally interesting time, a time when it must sink into the government and into the climate minister that referring to an ambition of 1.5 degrees maximum global warming is a completely different situation than what we have planned so far. So the challenge for the Council of State is whether he supports his colleague of oil and gas in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, who says that this does not affect Norwegian oil and gas policy at all. And the challenge is whether he is satisfied with the 40 pst ambition that has been made with the EU, which is an ambition to try to achieve the 2 pst goal, but not an ambition to try to achieve the 1.5 pst goal. The Green Party is trying to go a little further in moving Norway into the real green shift. That's why we say that Norwegian planning, Norwegian policy, cannot leave it to the market, cannot leave it to the question of how much overproduction Saudi Arabia decides, as the determining factor that determines whether Norwegian oil production will last for 20 years, as the Green Party will, or for 50 years, as the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Workers' Party will. We need to use politics: we want a bet on a Bionova that can really lift up the green industries. We want a seat tax that really changes our flight behaviour and otherwise generates revenues that can pay the entire flight effort. And we want a bet on expanding charging stations that actually make it possible to drive zero-emission cars all over the country – to mention a few things. These are things that create a proper change of pace, and these are things that the government needs to be able to do in order to create the jobs that oil workers have to live on in a moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1018	I would like to start by congratulating the Greens on being a part of perhaps the most important political climate change events in 2015. We haven't seen it in this room, but we've seen it around in Norwegian municipalities. After the election, we have received many new majority members who have put a completely different focus on climate and environmental issues, and MDG is a central part of it both in Oslo and in Trondheim. My question to Rasmus Hansson is about environmental protection, and I think it was good he started with it. At a time when we spend a lot of time discussing climate, as we're going to do, it's also important to discuss environmental protection. The Storting decided last year that we would receive a big message about natural diversity during 2015 – then we will assume that it will be here today, as it is the last state council before Christmas today. My question to the representative is whether he can say what kind of expectations the Environment Party has for such a big message, and how will the Environment Party be working on that big message when it comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1025	Firstly, I fully agree with the Aukrust representative that it is exciting with the political cooperation that the Greens have entered into with the centre and left side of Trondheim and Oslo, with the right side of Moss and Tønsberg, and other variants. We are also very excited about the nature diversity message that will come today. Unfortunately, I have not been able to read it, but the prerequisite for the notification to deliver what Norwegian nature needs is first of all that we have to get a complete fix on the treatment of Norwegian nature based on a zero vision for destruction of Norwegian nature. If we use nature one place, we're going to have to make friends to replace it another place. We have to get used to the fact that the cost of using nature is actually baked into the prices, so it's not free to destroy nature, as it is today. And we have to get used to the fact that we have to bet on monitoring and knowledge of Norwegian nature on a completely different scale than what we have today, so that we actually know what we're doing before we do. I hope the Workers' Party will join in – they have a good story like that, they've forgotten it for a while, but now it's nice if they remember it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1032	The world has just completed its climate summit in Paris, and Norway’s efforts have been highlighted by several countries, as well as by several representatives here in the Chamber today. I am sure that the representative Hansson can agree that bringing together 195 countries around a common agreement and a common text can be a challenge. Although the Environment Party has not been in government, they may have some experience, as the representative himself was in, from Oslo and other cities in that way. In his first comments on the climate agreement, the representative said: ‘We have now reached a completely unrealistic but absolutely necessary agreement.’ Then my question is: If the representative had been sitting as a climate minister and had been presented with exactly the same agreement, would he have signed this ‘realistic’ agreement, or would he recommend that Norway as the only of 195 countries should not sign something that was ‘realistic’?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1039	I would have recommended signing the agreement with the other 186 countries that have signed it. It doesn't make the 1.5 degree goal less unrealistic, because the 1.5 degree goal involves so extreme cut requirements if you want to do it, there's nothing to suggest that the world will make it, and there's absolutely nothing to suggest that this government will make it. But that's the right goal, because that's where we should come from. That's why the agreement also gives a very correct political signal that we have to do a lot more than what we've done so far, which is to try to stay below 2 degrees. 1.5 degrees requires a lot, a lot more. We're not going to do it completely, but the government has now signed on to a task that means that the representative Milde must press his party much too much for much greater climate action and much bigger cut first and foremost here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1045	Many debates have been witnessed in this Chamber on climate and environment, and there is no doubt that in many of the debates the opposition has been very critical of the former Sundtoft Council. My question to the Greens and the representative is: Does the representative agree that Sundtoft has done an important and good job for the climate and the environment, both related to Lima and Paris, in putting in place such a broad agreement on the target of 1.5 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1050	I am happy to have the opportunity to say that, like most of the others who have been involved, I am impressed by and pleased with the efforts of the Council of State Sundtoft along with the very good – I would say world leaders – made by Norwegian climate bureaucrats, with whom she was very capable to cooperate. The agreement that Sundtoft agreed to put in place is a crossroads, it is a discordant agreement. It is a huge challenge, not least to the party Progress Party, what is in the agreement. I am among those who think it was very pleasant that climate minister Sundtoft got this matter in place before she left, and it is well deserved the praise she has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1057	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1060	Let me start by saying thank you to the Committee for good and thorough work – as usual – with today's vote. Several have been concerned about the situation in the oil industry. Where we have behind us a period from 2002 to 2014 with more or less coherent and partly strong oil price growth, at activity level, but also at cost level, we must recognise that industry is now in a difficult transition with lower activity and challenges in the market. This affects both people and businesses, and there is no doubt that this is burdensome for many. Petroleum activities are the largest and most important industry in Norway. It contributes to the creation of value added to the treasury, and it contributes to employment across the country. Therefore, it is good to see that in 2015, but also in 2016, we are in a historical perspective in a situation where the investments on Norwegian pedestal still have to be considered high. In particular, the important field development of Johan Sverdrup is a strong and important contributor to it. I am pleased that Stortinget has arranged for Johan Sverdrup's development to follow the original schedule. There is still a high potential to generate values from Norwegian socket — an estimated half of our resources have been extracted with a clear gas imbalance as a proportion of the remaining resources. There is no doubt that value creation and activity in the industry depend on us making new findings if we are to see field development also in the post-2020 period. That's why the government is committed to facilitating areas for the industry. I am pleased that it is part of the broad, predictable framework of this industry that has considerable upswing in the Stortinget. In the budget, the government emphasises the maintenance of these stable and predictable frameworks of activity. We are helping to strengthen the commitment to research, education and technology development in industry. We're adding – as for example. The representative, Bru, was in the business of facilitating the internationalisation of the supplier industry that contributes to value creation and employment in Norway, but also that we get our world-leading technology for high health, environmental and safety requirements spread to industries in other parts of the world. Then I want to say that the large revenue from oil and gas is also contributing to the financing of many of the good climate measures that I am absolutely sure my colleague Helgesen will come back to. And then I want to say that I'm happy that an ambitious agreement is agreed in Paris. It provides the basis in many ways for us, in partnership with our partners, to provide international support for sustainable global energy systems. At the same time, it just makes this agreement so ambitious as it is, that it becomes even more important that we jointly ensure that it is the most effective measures that are implemented first. Sometimes I get the impression that the goal is that the measures should be the most expensive and the most difficult. I believe that the level of ambition that emerges from the Paris meeting means that it is important that we find the most effective measures. In the case of the resources on Norwegian pedestal, it is approx. 1 pst. of the world's remaining oil resources that we can produce in the future. It is also Norway’s sovereign largest industry, the main contributor to funding the welfare state, and it is 1 pst. by the oil in the world. I think that the list of sensible measures does not go far enough to actively contribute to shutting down the oil and gas activity. Then I would have liked to talk about floods and escape too, but I see that time does not allow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1083	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1086	A month ago, exactly today, the Minister of Oil and Energy was in Stavanger and took part in a major demonstration by the oil workers, which requires action from the government. They made at least six clear demands. The response and response from the Minister of Oil and Energy were as follows, if correctly quoted: "I thank the federations for focusing on the oil adventure, but we're not even halfway into this adventure. Oil and gas will be Norway’s most important industry for generations to come, says the Council of State.’ The councils can feel like he's walking around and talking, without acting. My question is, isn't it time that the Minister of Oil and Energy actually does something that others can thank him for actually doing, in the situation in which Norwegian oil and gas are inside?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1096	Fortunately, I feel that the oil and energy authorities, also under my leadership, have good dialogue with the trade union movement. That doesn't mean we agree on everything. I note that two of the things the trade movement pointed to that day were, first of all, the need to strengthen R & D efforts in the energy industry. That's what the government does in today's budget, along with our partners in Stortinget. Another thing the trade union movement pointed to was the need for stable and predictable access to land. The representative of Aasland knows well that the government is working on the areas of 23rd round. We have to recognise that the level of activity built up towards 2013 is a level of activity that in itself contributed to high costs. Getting control of the cost of the socket is the basis for long-term value creation, based on the energy resources on the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1103	I record that after 12 years in the chair as Minister of Oil and Energy, there are not many measures that have come from today's Minister of Oil and Energy. But I'm going to try another question on another topic. It is a matter of the government’s mantra that tax deductions and tax arrangements should motivate action, including the tax credit scheme for an increase in activity in households. In the position that exists, we have made a proposal in which this system should naturally be explored to housing companies and housing companies, but I note that the government parties are opposed to this. With the mantra that tax deductions and tax arrangements should motivate good action, why are not governments and government parties involved in such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1112	Representative Aasland says I've been Minister of Oil and Energy for 12 years – it's a little exaggeration [[muttering in the hall]] I have to say a little bit about the oil and gas activity. I think it's doing a lot of good work now – the trade unions are constructive, the supplier industry is working hard, and the oil and gas companies are working hard to cut costs. That's the key in the long term. On the one hand, we will have ample opportunity to discuss Enova when we present the Energy Communication in April. I think the way we run Enova, which is designed by the red-green government, is good ways to control Enova. Enova herself is making the decisions, and Enova is now working to extend the scheme. What measures they find out they get the most back for in extending that scheme, I think it's too early for me to say anything about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1121	It's almost become a Christmas tradition to assume that the Christian People's Party is involved and reduces the government's cut in the transmission tariffs. The transmission tariffs are important in order to obtain similar electricity bills either centrally or in the districts. The Christian People's Party believes that this is good district policy. Doesn't the Council of State see the meaning of this scheme, or is this a Christmas tradition that you intend to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1126	Let me first say that I appreciate the energy debate with the Christian People's Party. We work together to find good solutions. What will ultimately be crucial is how much it costs to get the power of all households in Norway, including in the smaller central districts of the country, is the way we constantly work to make the operation of these companies more efficient. It is no secret that I believe that having a different structure of ownership is also important, but the most important thing to reduce the network rental in the districts is that it works well and efficiently to improve the efficiency of the operation of companies in Norway. It also gives Stortinget ample opportunity to discuss in connection with the presentation of the bill on the Energy Act, which was presented in November.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1132	We need to bring down at least 40 pst. in emission reductions up to 2030 with the EU. A large part of these emissions cuts must come from the transport sector. According to the Environment Directorate, almost all new cars sold in 2025, i.e. in 10 years' time, must be a zero-emission vehicle. Enova is the tool we have to get this. It is Enova that now needs to build and support under the infrastructure needed to receive more than 100000 new zero-emission vehicles each year. Then my question is: is the Council of State willing to take action on Enova, so that they both create support schemes to build this infrastructure and not least create the plan we need to know which infrastructure we need to have in place over the next ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1139	I would also like to thank Mr Elvesuen for his good work. I am very pleased that we will discuss the work on the Energy Communication, where Stortinget will be able to discuss the framework for Enova's work from 1 January 2017 onwards. There I know that the Left, the Advance Party and the Right, together the Christian People's Party and the rest of the Storting, will have good discussions. I don't think I like the figures presented by the representative Elvesuen, but it's clear that getting greenhouse gas emissions from transport is important. In today's debate, several representatives have also discussed air pollution in large cities. Connecting the large ships on shore-side electricity will be important both to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to reduce emissions of NOx and sulphur, which contribute to air pollution, so I am absolutely sure that we will be able to find good ways to deal with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1149	The Energy Council has an important role to play in the follow-up to Paris in strengthening the development and driving forces of renewable energy. It is in many ways a coordinating role also vis-à-vis other government councils, for example. the Minister of State for Buildings and Other Areas. This applies to both solar, hydro and wind power. He has to make sure that the Fosen is built up. Governments should make sure that we connect to ocean winds. The council said in previous reply that he was concerned that Enova had to be managed in a serious way. It's easy to agree that is important. The question is what does the Council of State think about the government you have had of Statkraft in the autumn, where one has then chosen to take away so much capital from the company. Does he think that is a serious way to control a major industrial player in renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1156	I think the vast majority of those who have followed the social debate this fall have seen that things have happened in our society based on events outside Norway that have made it necessary to make a major effort in the state budget for next year. When it comes to whether it is possible to expand the kind of project the representative mentions – the representative says in and of course that I will make sure that the Fosen is built up – it is probably not a very serious government of Statkraft either. But I understand what the representative wants. What is at stake is to facilitate the profitability of these types of projects. I then agree with many of the representatives, including Tina Bru, who has talked about that this is about putting the power into use, it's about facilitating that we reach markets with a better willingness to pay in the United Kingdom. That's where I think the government has done a lot. We are also in the process of setting up a depreciation regime that makes Norwegian wind power projects more competitive within the certification system, compared to Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1163	I read the paper yesterday. I find it fascinating to see how Tord Lien in the class struggle excavated that the oil price should rise again, while VG on his side wrote how the oil price has now reached a crack, and that we are in a crack. I'm not going to ask the oil minister about this, and rather he invites him to come to a later post and discuss some of the long-term challenges for the oil price and oil industry in Norway. I'd rather ask about one thing that's been important to Stortinget in the last year. It's about electrification of Utsira. The electrification of Utsira was decided by Stortinget to take place by 2022. As far as I have understood, Statoil should have chosen the concept during 2015 for how to proceed with this, but it has not happened. I would therefore like to ask Tord Lien: what does the Minister of Oil and Energy do to ensure that the decision of the Storting on electrification is followed up by 2022, and for the qualification of electric boilers instead of gas boilers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1172	If there was the question of heat solution in some of the smaller fields at Utsira Eidsvoll Holmås pointed to when it was about electric boilers, then I know that it is working to find optimal solutions for it now. We inform Stortinget in connection with the submission of state budgets about changes in the progress plans for both the field development approved by Stortinget and the field developments we have approved ourselves, as we also did in RNB. I have no reason to believe that not all the partners both in the small fields of Utsira and in the large Johan Sverdrup development work with a focus on finding solutions to what the Stortinget has decided. When it comes to the price question, I have never given the impression that I think we are returning quickly to the 115 dollar barrel, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås experienced when he was in government. I don't think it's possible to imagine the world being supplied with the oil they need, based on an oil price of $37.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1186	If we are to solve the climate problem and reduce greenhouse gas emissions here in Norway, we need to replace fossil energy with renewable energy. In order to achieve this, we need to significantly increase the production of energy from renewable energy sources over time, while at the same time implementing measures to use electricity in areas where we have used fossil energy in the past. We are moving towards a significant surplus of power in Norway and the Nordic countries, so if there is a political will to phase out fossil energy by 2050, Norway has all the opportunities, all the prerequisites, to be in the front line to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. At a time when the Nordic region is moving towards a significant surplus of power, it would be right to support forward-looking industry that exploits the power of added value for Norwegian society. The government is planning to build a number of new wind farms. Many of these will hardly be realised, because the electricity prices are low, and there is no capital in many of the power companies. It's a problem that we don't get to attract enough investment to Norway. The size has taken some action, as the Minister for Oil and Energy has just explained, in order to improve the investment base of the players on the Norwegian side. The changes in the depreciation policy are central here, and we in the Workers' Party proposed 40 pst. more depreciation over the first four years of technology neutral for certification power. The government has declined to a lower level. New renewable energy such as wind, sun and tides can grow in Norway, but more research and technological development are needed. Norway remains a major hydropower nation. The hydropower is adjustable, and with several foreign tables Norwegian hydropower contributes well in times when it is still and the sun does not shine in Europe. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we look at how we can facilitate the upgrade of already existing power plants. Here, there is a great potential to increase production without natural interference. The main sources of emissions in Norway are offshore, transport and industry. Energy efficiency in buildings accounts for approximately 3 pst. of the total emissions of CO2 nationally. Nevertheless, it does not mean that measures in this area are not important. The cooperation parties agreed in Nydalen on a tax deduction scheme for an additional measure for households. The Government shall have in place that it has complied with criticism and has attempted to reform this scheme. Nevertheless, a number of organisations believe that the scheme is not a tax deduction in the usual sense. The new proposal, which envisages that the owner of a dwelling may choose between receiving a right-based grant paid within four months and waiting for the tax settlement, less when applying and submitting documentation to Enova, is not a tax deduction scheme. Both forms of support payment shall be financed by the Energy Fund and the budget of 250 million. kr from the Energy Fund for an additional measure in housing refers to the sum of Enova grants and tax reliefs. The working party has not been a champion of a tax deduction scheme. We believe that this is a scheme that provides support to housing owners who would nevertheless upgrade their house, and more and more of these have the economy to take the promises without the need for tax relief. When the scheme is in place – if this word can be used about a scheme that is quite unclear around – we believe that there is a need to extend the scheme to housing units and housing pools. I am recording here that the Council of State in a line change with Terje Aasland only referred to the energy message, without providing an answer as to why housing teams and housing pools should not be included in this scheme. We also believe that after-insulation and replacement of windows should be supported. We are promoting a proposal together with the Green Party in which we ask the government to review and simplify the scheme and to facilitate the benefit of the efficiency measures by households, which give an opinion through the aid scheme. We believe that these are the measures that actually matter to the climate economy, which will receive the most support. Owners of e.g. a passive house that will install sun on the roof shall be provided with less – if at all – support than a household with oil fire in a house from the 1950s that will install the waterborne heating and/or changing windows and after-insoles. I hope that the government will be able to review this proposal, unless otherwise indicated in the Energy Communication, which is due to come in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1206	Let me first join in the congratulations to Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen. Fortunately, his starting point is better than Tine Sundtoft's when she joined. We are in the process of changing paces in national climate policy, and the Paris agreement is helping the rest of the world to succeed. In cooperation with the EU, Norway shall cut emissions by 40 pst. compared to 2005 by 2030. This means that industrial and petroleum emissions are to be reduced by 43 pst. in 2030 in cooperation with the EU, and probably between 80 and 95 pst. at European level in 2050. This and the Paris Agreement, which will gradually be tightened up, are the framework within which this sector must base investment decisions in the coming period. At the same time, we are going to help industry and industry achieve even lower emissions than today, and thus the industry is even stronger in a world where all low emissions become a competitive advantage. Norwegian industry has already managed to reduce emissions by 40 pst. Since 1990, while production has almost doubled. We've achieved the whole world now striving to uncouple growth in the industry from emissions growth. Unfortunately, large parts of industrial growth in the world have come to countries with seven to eight times higher emissions than Norway. Norway should have ambitions to take a greater part of this growth. We have a unique competitive advantage in our rich access to reasonable, renewable energy, and this should be used to create more jobs, more activity and contribute to a transformation of the Norwegian economy that gives us more legs to stand on. In isolation, this can increase emissions in Norway, but because we are part of the EU's climate policy, this means that emissions in the world can decrease while the production of products we need in the low-carbon society can distort coal-based power generation and end-of-life industry in other parts of Europe. The green shift can provide great opportunities to create new green jobs, not only in the traditional process industry but also in the bioeconomy, sea-based industries, the waste industry, wood-based industries, green data centres and the production of new components and products needed by the world to realise the low-carbon society. In order to trigger these opportunities, we have doubled the grant to the Climate Technology Fund since the government joined and significantly strengthened Innovation Norway's environmental technology system. At the same time, we must ensure that there is good access to competent, local and risky private capital. There won't be many new green entrepreneurs with the opposition's tax arrangements. The connection to EU climate policy also means that we have to cut up to 40 pst. in the non-quota sector at home. It concerns the transport sector, agriculture, waste and construction sectors. Unlike the Aasland representative claims, the government and the cooperation parties are well-informed about measures that will lead to large emission reductions by 2030. We have a zero-emission visa for the transport sector. Fossil energy shall be phased out gradually through a combination of requirements and measures that will contribute to the emergence of renewable alternatives across all sectors of the sector. Unlike the government of Aasland, which penalised biofuels producers with new taxes, the bourgeois parties stimulate the development, production and use of environmentally friendly alternatives. We roll out infrastructure for zero-emission vehicles and zero-emission vessels, and we phase out fossil energy in the waste and construction sectors. And the government implements the rise of the times for public transport in the big cities and a historic investment on the railways. I do not know if the representative Aasland got up with the wrong leg today. But he does seem to live in a different reality than the rest of us. In reality, no concrete proposals have been made in climate and environmental policy by the government and the cooperation parties. In his world, we need the Labour Party in climate policy. His problem is that climate policy does not need the Workers' Party. The government did not exactly come to the table of climate policy. When I negotiated a climate agreement with the Workers' Party in 2012, the Workers' Party was the big brake block. The Labour Party broke the negotiations on the grounds that the civil parties' climate ambitions were too great. Let me remind you that we are now implementing these measures and more. I understand that the Labour Party needs to make itself relevant in climate policy. But in recent years they have done nothing but prove that they are not relevant in climate policy. Government and cooperation parties have contributed to a significant shift in the pace of climate and environmental policies. It's necessary if we're going to pick up the traces after the red-green lots. I am happy to say that emissions in Norway fell by almost one percentage point in 2014, and that is the result of a new government. Some parties are talking about climate, the blue-green majority is doing something about it. It doesn't keep calling itself green – you have to be it in practice. Thank you, President, and thank you for me on the Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1234	First of all, I would like to point out that a very good budget from the government has become an even better budget after the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The budget agreement will increase the ambitions of climate policy and will facilitate work, activity and migration. Renewable energy and energy conversion are increasing strongly, and historical investments are being made on the railways, walking and cycling paths and public transport reward schemes in the major cities. In addition, there is a very large investment in road development across the country. It can be mentioned here that we are betting on the infrastructure for charging electric cars and the development of fast chargers between our cities. Furthermore, an aid scheme for hydrogen filling stations shall be established for the preparation of a new agreement and mandate for Enova. A stronger biofuel bet is added through increased biofuel turnover requirements from 5.5 to 7 pst. The one-off charge on the cars is changed within a proven neutral frame. The budget agreement will also strengthen research efforts in climate and environment by 200 million. DKK over Ministry of Knowledge and 40 million. for research into the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. Climate and environmental challenges are global, and it is important that Norway, which has technology, competence and capital, contributes to national and international action. It is also good that the entire Committee agrees to put in place that the government has to report on the impact of emissions on Norway — not to understand that this will help in isolation, but the effect of visibility and reporting will over time contribute to better monitoring and efficiency. It is paradoxical that in its comments, the red-greens point to Norway’s being convicted in the EFTA Court of Justice of breaches of the Air Quality Directive and demand that today’s government take action to improve the situation. The government has launched a number of measures to reduce emissions locally, but it is not this government that has been convicted by the EFTA Court of Justice of air quality breaches. On the contrary, it was the red-green government that was convicted for this in the period 2009-2012. Much can be mentioned – bets on more liming, bets on wild axes, far more funds for ship protection and ship protection centres. The list is long. But I have to say that after a few years in the committee I have some thoughts about how one has experienced that the red-greens have tried and tried to roll over the former government council Sundtoft on almost every single occasion. It is true that Norway may never have had a more central climate and environmental politician in an international world than just a previous government council Sundtoft. She has done a great job both in Lima and in Paris to get a broad deal in place. That's almost how you have to ask, given that the red-greens never managed to put in place an international politician of formats within climate and environment: is that why you can't give recognition to the job that Tine Sundtoft has actually done?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1247	Let me first thank you for the warm congratulations of others in the debate. I look forward to good cooperation. I am also very pleased with the well-deserved tribute that my predecessors have received from several speakers. The Committee also deserves a thank you for a very good job. I would like to extend an extra thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party, which has contributed to good priorities in the 2016 budget, a budget that facilitates the follow-up of our climate commitments nationally and internationally. The Paris Agreement is a historic turning point in international climate cooperation. It is globally in the right sense of the word, by setting global, long-term climate goals that all countries must pursue in their national policies. It establishes a system in which all countries shall report their emission target to the United Nations every five years and report on its implementation. It states that every five years all countries will develop new, more ambitious climate targets. The follow-up to the Norwegian 2030 target, and therefore our follow-up to the Paris decision, is already under way in the 2016 budget through a number of targeted actions. The process of joint implementation with the EU is becoming very important. The EU is now working to develop more detailed policies and legislation for the implementation of the 2030 objective, and we need to interact closely with the EU in order to contribute to good common solutions. The Paris Agreement sends a strong message to both authorities, businesses and the population about a fundamental, long-term transition. Norway's green transition is in progress and must accelerate. The budget supports the government's five priority areas of action in the field of climate policy, and there are priorities with broad support in the UK. We are accelerating technology change and low-carbon development in industry by further significantly strengthening both the Climate and Energy Funds and the Eco-Tech Facility. We overfill the climate deal by raising the capital of the Climate and Energy Fund to less than 68 billion. kr. We are increasing the appropriations for environmental research and technological development. We stimulate renewable energy production by strengthening renewable energy research centres by 40 million. kr. In Paris, we announced that Norway will participate in an international alliance called Mission Innovation, where the aim is to double research and innovation in environmentally friendly energy by 2020. We aim to develop cost-effective technologies for CO2 capture, transport and storage. We convert the charges to reduce emissions from the transport sector. We're strengthening the green shift on shipping. Together with the cooperation parties, the government adds up to a significant green shift. The four parties shall have organised cooperation on the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission and on the implementation of the green tax shift. Such a shift shall involve an increase in CO2 emissions taxes, equivalent to a sectoral reduction in other taxes and taxes. The charging and tax conversion shall be of a magnitude that enhances the climate reconciliation and provides significant reductions in climate emissions. The government is working on a green competitiveness strategy and the green shift on how to equip Norway for the low-emission future. So over to actions placed on the KLD budget, first climate and forest policy: a long-term, international funding for efficient emission reductions is absolutely central to the implementation of the new agreement. As you know, my predecessor in Paris announced that the climate and forest effort will continue until 2030. The government emphasises cooperation with other countries on the implementation of climate action. Cooperation with developing countries through so-called flexible mechanisms has enabled Norway to take on greater commitments and contribute to greater global reductions. I am also satisfied with the allocation of municipal climate action, to a reward scheme for climate action in municipalities of 100 million. kr, a reward scheme of a minimum duration of five years. The biogas strategy is followed up by doubling the allocation to pilot plants for biogas plants. We are continuing the allocation of natural diversity and outdoor investment at a high level, and this has been further strengthened by the agreement in Stortinget. Today, the government is presenting a big message with a Norwegian Action Plan for Nature Diversity. There is an important milestone in the national follow-up to the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Communication will address the state and impacts on Norwegian nature and government policy in order to achieve the Norwegian objectives of natural diversity. The policies we present include, inter alia: a more accurate management of nature, a climate-adapted natural management, the preservation of a representative selection of Norwegian nature and the strengthening of the competences of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1283	When I wish the new climate and environment minister good luck, I hope we can break a tradition that has been in place since the fall of 2013, and that is that every time the government has presented its state budgets, it is precisely the climate that has been the loser. I think everyone, with the exception of the government parties, agrees on that in this room. That tradition, I hope, can be broken with the climate and environment minister we have now received. I want to ask about the consequences of the Paris agreement, because the 2012 climate agreement states that if there is an ambitious climate agreement where other developed countries also assume large commitments, Norway shall be climate-neutral or ensure that emissions reductions equivalent to Norwegian emissions are achieved by 2030. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment agree and can he guarantee that the government will follow up on that point in the 2012 climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1290	It is clear that we in Paris have an ambitious agreement, and there may be reason to point out that in a world that is so polarized, where multilateral processes are often strained, it is almost alarming that such a broad and largely binding agreement has been reached between so many countries. Now we have to see what the consequences are. We have made a decision in Stortinget to interact with the EU on the 2030 targets. We're going to do that. It also means that when the update of targets takes place every five years, we will also have to do so in an interaction with the EU, and any adjustment of Norway’s targets, such as the goal of carbon neutrality, we will have to assess in relation to actual developments, and we will have to see it in the context of discussions with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1297	I would like to repeat my congratulations and wish you every success in the tasks that the new Council of State is now facing. I want to ask a fairly open question about what the Council of State thinks is the most important step we can take at home to cut climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1304	First of all, thank you very much for your congratulations. I look forward to good cooperation. I think it's important that we think completely and see that there are no single measures that will solve the whole climate challenge. I have great faith in economic instruments. I am pleased with the agreement between the four cooperation parties to continue the green tax shift, because economic instruments stimulate changes in behaviour. Contamination must be more expensive. It has to be more expensive to emit greenhouse gases. There is no doubt that we have significant challenges in the transport sector where emissions need to be reduced. Financial measures will be important there. I also believe it is essential that Norway sees the opportunities for economic development in the green shift. Therefore, the focus on technology, research and innovation is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1313	I will also be allowed to wish the new Council of State good luck. It is a wide and diverse area for which he has been given responsibility. Right now, there is a lot of connection to follow-up on the climate side. But it is important to remember that the portfolio is diverse and covers the breadth of the whole environmental field. Then some people might think that the Center Party should ask about predators. We're not going to do that this time. But I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit of thinking about cultural memories. As I said in my post, I think that's the theme that we're still forgetting. There is a need for a commitment, both as regards the budget of the Cultural Memory Fund, the Riksantikvaren, the maintenance of the church and also as regards tax-related schemes against private owners of cultural memories. We have set ourselves some goals that we are far from fulfilling, and the question is whether the Council of State sees the need to have a more cross-political uplift in order to meet those objectives and try to get on with the 2020 targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1320	Let me say that I am happy to have the opportunity to answer a question that concerns a frequently overlooked part of the Ministry of Climate and Environment portfolio and that is extremely important. Natural diversity is essential for survival and for the development of many industries, but cultural diversity is also an important part of who we are. That's why I put great emphasis on that part of my responsibility. We will now have a review of the achievement of the 2020 objectives in the field of cultural memory. It'll give me -- and hopefully, the Storing and all the parties -- an opportunity to see where we stand and where we can take things further. I'm basically in favour of broad solutions, and I hope that we can have a good discussion about how to take this important field further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1327	I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on the new Council of State post and an important one. I believe – to the representative of Aasland – that we should continue a tradition, that, if we do not present the budgets then, by the decisions of the budgets, we will get good climate and environmental budgets. After all, that's all that's important. Little back to the previous role of the Council of State. Much of the environmental policy implemented in Norway and with which, in particular, municipalities and local authorities operate is the follow-up to decisions taken in the EU and the follow-up to EU directives, whether on water directives or on air pollution, and also some directives that we should have introduced, but which we do not yet have. My question is how the Council of States sees the follow-up to these directives and their importance, but also how it, as the Norwegian Council of State, can influence these processes within the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1336	At the risk of moving into the European Minister's portfolio, I can say that in the area of KLD there are many important directives – a lot of environmental legislation originates in the EU. However, in general, the government of European policy has focused on having past efforts to influence decision-making processes and effective efforts to implement and implement EU directives and regulations. I am sure that my successor as EU and EEA Minister will follow up. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is one of the departments where there has been a significant reduction in emissions. Knowing how much Norwegian environmental legislation originates in the EU, I place great emphasis on continuing the good work that we have done from the Norwegian side with influence in this area. The Directorate-General for the Environment is well-informed about EU processes, and I will follow them up actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1343	I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on the new title – and the new job. This is gonna be fun! What I'm going to ask is the follow-up to the climate agreement. It is a whole chapter of the climate agreement that is about what we are going to do before 2020 – ‘Enhanced Action’. We have to do more before 2020. That's something that's stressed throughout the climate agreement, and that's something that's been stressed by the opposition here throughout this big period. The climate agreement's targets are too far behind, which is that we are going to cut down to 47 million tonnes of CO2 by 2020. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, about the national ambitions for emissions reduction: What is the operational objective of the Council of State that it is right that we should achieve by 2020? When do we get the plan and measures for how we intend to achieve them, and do we recognize Helgesen that after 2.5 years of government, we are not in the vicinity of achieving the goals that the Stortinget has adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1355	I think we're all earned to admit that we have to set the pace. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås knows that from the past by being a member of the government. We've stepped up our efforts, and we've reinforced the climate reconciliation in this government's lifetime. We have strong ambitions ahead, and we are satisfied with how our budget proposals have been strengthened through our cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We have this morning got a presentation of numbers that show that emissions continue to go down. It's positive, but we're not satisfied with the current status. I ask for an understanding that I will need something more than two days in the chair before I come back with the concrete grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1361	A long-term forecast of natural diversity has been presented today. I'm not going to be so infamous that I demand the Council of State to know in detail what it says. But what is beyond doubt is that the treatment of natural diversity in Norway has not so far achieved the national objectives we have on conservation of natural diversity, and we have not achieved the objectives we originally had for 2010 – and now have for 2020 – to stop the loss of biodiversity. So the question becomes simple: can the Council of State immediately confirm that he is going to work for a qualitatively significantly more ambitious protection of biodiversity in Norway than we have seen so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1368	First of all, I am very pleased that we have now received a big message about natural diversity. It will give us the basis for a good discussion on this important topic. It's been 14 years since the last time such a big message came. We are committed to continuing what has been a high level of ambition, but it is not least to try to reach the level of ambition through practical measures. There we've seen that the fulfillment has necessarily not been 100 pst. so far. We see that perhaps the most important thing in this communication is that we want to clarify where the limit of sustainability goes across sectors, that is. that we should agree on the quality of our ecosystems. It hasn't been completely clear. By clarifying this, we will also be able to do a better job of securing the diversity of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1373	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1376	It's incredibly good that the world has managed to reach an agreement in Paris. It might be the very best climate innovation in a long time. We're going to be allowed to spend some time enjoying ourselves, but we're not going to be happy for too long, because the job is in no way done; the job has to be done now. The agreement is hardly worth the paper it is written on, unless country follows it up. In the climate debate there is a lot of talk about 2030, 2050 – and maybe even further ahead. It's important, but more important is what we do here and now – what we do with 2016, 2017 and 2018. This is where the government hasn't followed well enough. This is the first government budget to be submitted after the Stortinget adopted climate targets for 2030. We would think that we got a government budget that paved the way for a low-carbon society. We didn't get that. We got a government budget that showed that the emissions were going to go up. WWF leader Nina Jensen said that she had barely seen a worse environmental budget than what Siv Jensen said. I want to pay tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party for making a bad climate budget far better, but it's still not good enough, and it's the majority in the United Kingdom for a better climate budget than what's going to be adopted today. The working party hopes that there is now the opportunity to re-establish a climate settlement, because the government needs to be challenged. Most of what has happened in climate policy has come from the opposition. Much of that has been disputed by the government parties. In the case of climate laws, low-emission zones, the pension fund out of coal, the electrification of Utsira, sea wind, electric car investment – all this has been promoted by the opposition, and the government has opposed. One of the few things the government has put forward was the proposal to move the edge of the ice. It was voted down by all the other parties in Stortinget. Our new climate minister is getting a tough job of getting an impact on the government. That's not what I'm saying -- that's what the Prime Minister is saying. Because after the massive criticism that also came to the state budget last year, the Prime Minister said, ‘It’s tougher to stand for the climate in a government where someone is not so busy about it.’ In the middle of the Paris Summit, government party representatives went out and said that global warming could also be positive – it could be positive that we could not stop climate change. The Progress Party’s new superstate council – Sylvi Listhaug – has said that climate policy is a socialist idea for introducing new taxes and taxes. With this as colleagues, with this as their big groups, I understand that the climate minister has a tough job. There is an argument for getting a new government, a new government where everyone is concerned about climate – a new government in 2017. Following the Paris agreement, leading Progress Party politicians stated that this was not going to have so much to say to Norway. The oil and energy minister said that in his field it was just to run on as before. That's why international climate work is going bad, because many people think this doesn't have to say anything to us. This fall has happened a lot that is also positive for the climate. But it's not the government that should have the credit for it. Where the government does not take its responsibility, many of our local politicians do. In Tromsø, Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo, we have all received municipalities that have provided very good climate platforms. It should have been praised by the government when the municipalities assume their responsibilities, but it will not. On the contrary, the Minister of Finance says that this is a bad nightmare – that people are going to take back and drive more cars because of the proposals from the new city majority figures, among others. in Oslo. Of course, the working party supports the extension of the rainforest bet that the government announced would last until 2030. But it is a paradox that during a week after the agreement was signed in Paris – and we have signed that we should increase our international climate commitment – the bulk of the population cut the premium to the rainforest by nearly 200 million. kr. Fortunately, the government will not be able to take advantage of its cut proposal, which is twice the size of what is going to be adopted today, but 200 million. kr is also a significant sum. It's a paradox that it's coming during a week after the Paris agreement. Environmental protection is not the title of the Minister. A major problem is that it has also been out of policy for a long time. This summer, all the big environmental organizations said we have a government that is waging a war against nature. We have great expectations for the big message about natural diversity that was presented a few minutes ago. Of course I haven't read it, but I have to admit that I don't really believe that there is a message that is strong enough, and the Workers' Party is looking forward to working with all the parties in the Storting to strengthen our efforts to take care of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1393	When designing policies, it is necessary to have a generation perspective in mind. This is always in the back of my mind and certainly also in the hands of many other politicians when different issues are debated here in the hall or in the social debate in general. Not least for us who work on climate and environmental issues, the consideration of the next generations will weigh heavily in our balances. This is a budget for migration and activity, and it is important that young people have confidence that they will have a job to live on in the future. This is important for young people, but it is also for us who are parents, and those who are so lucky to be grandparents. The green jobs of our young people in the future need to be organised today, and therefore the government in the draft government budget has proposed to further increase the capital of the Climate Fund, renewable energy and energy conversion. Knowledge, research and innovation, infrastructure and tax incentives are needed that make Norwegian business more competitive to meet future challenges. Through budgetary cooperation with the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, further reinforcements have been made to prepare Norway for the future, through 20 million. kr for enhanced research on climate and environment and 40 million. kr for industrial research on the budgets of other departments. Innovation Norway's eco-technology system contributes greatly to the necessary transformation we are undergoing through contributions to innovation and innovation. The government strengthened the scheme and the budget agreement added another 40 million. kr. There are many good examples of projects that receive funding through these different schemes. Norwegian Forest Saugbruks, who in various forms has stayed in my home town, Halden, for nearly 500 years, left in the summer news that they would invest in a new biogas plant, where Enova has gone in with 52 million. kr. So here we're talking about the production of 2.7 million m3 of gas for both internal use and resale to drive 70 heavy vehicles per year. It generates revenue for the holding and reduces operating costs of 25 million. kr per year. And not least: the CO2 emissions could be reduced by 50 pst. on the holding and at the same time the emissions from heavy duty vehicles will be reduced by 6500 tonnes of CO2 per year. Three days ago, Norwegian Forest reported that they have received another 2 million. kr from the Norwegian Research Council to further develop the project. For me, this is just one example of how different support schemes and research programmes work together with business and actually implement the green shift we like to talk about here in the hall. In this context, it can also be mentioned that the government is following up the national bioga strategy by granting 20 million. kr in the year’s budget to establish a pilot plant for precisely biogas. Norway is fortunate with a varied, lush and clean nature. We have strong traditions for hunting, fishing and outdoor life based on the right of all persons to free movement in the outland. Biodiversity in Norway is best addressed through a combination of sustainable use and voluntary protection. The government has announced a big message with proposals for action and actions launched today. Under the budgetary agreement, environmental monitoring and ecological base maps were first reinforced by 20 million. kr and then, through the committee procedure, an additional 10 mill. kr to map the aquatic environment. I note here that an overall committee agrees with environmental organisations and heavy NHO associations on the need for an ecological base map for Norway. This will be expenditure on the acquisition of income through increased knowledge and reduced conflicts, especially in the field of transport. Good management of our nature is also important for outdoor life, which has a long and good tradition in Norway. We are now in the last days of the Year of Outdoor Life, a year that can well be called a success in getting more into nature. 1.1 million Nordics have been more active in outdoor life than before, according to a survey. Even I had the pleasure of sleeping in Mossemarka in September with several other politicians, and I have to admit that it was a few years ago. The budget agreement has strengthened this item by nearly 20 million. kr, the money I expect goes to activity and natural experiences. The government has also announced here a big message to the spring that will follow up this important work. It is a good budget that is being presented today, and I would like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation in dealing with it and for a great deal of consensus in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1432	Before I start my post, I have to make some comments about Jan-Henrik Fredriksen's misguided and somewhat deficient historical knowledge about former climate and energy ministers and the Workers' Party and the participation of red-green politicians in international forums. I would argue that Gro Harlem Brundtland, with the Brundtland Commission and, in practice, the world's first climate and energy minister, Thorbjørn Berntsen, who was appointed at the time's Environment Minister of Bellona and took the fight against acid rain and nuclear waste, Jens Stoltenberg, with rainforest bets and climate jobs in the UN after the 2013 elections, Hanne Bjurstrom and a number of others have been quite central, at least in part, in the work on climate and sustainability over the last decades. As for the former climate and energy minister, I get to say as Prime Minister Erna Solberg: it's a little difficult to be concerned with the climate in a government where others don't think it's that important. Over the next 35 years, we're going to be over 2 billion more people. We must lift a number of people corresponding to the whole of Europe out of extreme poverty. We influence the development through our greenhouse gas emissions and the way we manage our resources. If everyone were to live like a Northman, and consume like a Northman, we would have to have three earths. Similarly, we would need the resources of four Earths if everyone were to consume like an American. This is not sustainable when we're going to raise 700 million out of extreme poverty, and when we're going to be billions more people. Who are we to tell politicians and leaders in poor countries that they should deny their inhabitants access to electricity, to a better life, to work, to food and to the resources that we have already had access to for years? More politicians in the Right and the Advance Party say that now we do not need more socialist solutions, now we only need the market. What they're really saying is we're going to be our own luck smith, and we're going to be alone. I disagree with it, the Labour Party disagrees with it, and almost all the world's countries and leaders disagree with it. We need more solutions in common, more cooperation and active market management – not passivity and self-satisfaction. That is why we have set up a new international climate agreement, that we have supranational solutions, because greenhouse gas emissions, poverty and peace are too large to be left to each one. We stand so much stronger together. We can because we want, and we want because we have to. 10 billion tonnes of waste worldwide each year is a major problem for many countries and citizens, but a major resource for industry, among other things. in Norway. Our companies handle and recycle waste. In a few years they have gone from scrapers to landfills to well-functioning industries. By courageous decisions of, inter alia, The Labour Party Government and Thorbjørn Berntsen, jointly laid down the framework for what is currently a green industry in growth, which has been essential to prevent increased loss of natural diversity, to ensure more sustainable consumption and to create new jobs. The Global Waste Management report estimates the potential of between 9 and 25 million new jobs in the circular economy — at a time when a number of countries experience unemployment among young people up to 50pst. All generations are about to be lost. Then we need to invest to create optimism, hope and change. Work is the basis for well-being, family safety and social progress. Large unemployment, lost opportunities for education and lack of futures also spread fear and contempt for governance mechanisms and democracy. Trust in society is weakened when politicians are unable to gather around solutions to get more people to work. The potential is so great because today 3 billion people are without access to waste management facilities. By 2030, we're going to be 40 new megatowns, with more than 10 million inhabitants. If we don't manage the waste efficiently, these cities will be flooded with diseases and dangerous discharges. You're going to burn waste that leads to cancer and even more serious diseases. If we manage to create these new jobs, we can reduce world greenhouse gas emissions by 15 to 20 pst. It is therefore very good that the Committee has agreed that we should have a new report on the waste industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1449	Norway has rich energy resources and shall be a precursor of environmentally friendly energy production and consumption. We are in a situation of significant power surplus, which means that the profitability of the new power builds is under pressure as a result of low power prices. At the same time, we know that we are going to phase out a lot of fossil energy, among other things. in the transport sector, in order to create the low-carbon society. Low prices also make it more attractive to establish new industries that will in the long term create a better balance in the power market. Norway is currently part of a common electricity licence market with Sweden. It is with good conscience that we can establish that we have kept our promises to the actors who were kept out of that arrangement by the previous government. Small-scale small-scale power stations also generate large values in small communities, but these were until recently excluded from the support scheme. In the year that has passed, we have corrected this, so that those who have built up new renewable energy with a promise of support now get it. Many of those who built small power plants were actually going to have to go from house to house because they did not get the support they had expected. We gave them another chance. It's important to get the energy into use. If our power resources are to have a value, we have to process them. In the budget, therefore, we are facilitating new activity by continuing and strengthening the support system for climate technologies, and we are lowering the electricity charge on new green data centres. Pure Norwegian renewable energy can also contribute to the achievement of several of our neighbouring countries’ climate targets through greater exchange of power. The government has therefore granted a concession to two new foreign tables and promoted a change in the law that allows more actors than Statnet to expand such cables. In addition to facilitating the development of more renewable energy, we are making strict demands for energy efficiency improvement. The most environmentally friendly energy is the one that is never used, so the government has updated technical regulations with new and more stringent energy requirements in buildings. In the budget, there is an obliging plan to phase out almost all remaining fossil heating in state buildings, with the exception of those with a standby function. The government will also make it possible for households to receive tax deductions for an additional measure through Enova. Even in the years that have passed, we have received strong reminders of what damage extreme violence can bring. We must be better prepared for extreme weather in the future and prevent floods, gliding and other natural damage. The government's draft budget contains substantial strengthening of the flood and emergency response, and we are increasing the budget by 116 million. kr compared to last year. Next year, almost 375 million will be spent. for prevention and preparedness. We can never guarantee that we are fully secure, but we can prevent where we know that the risk of damage is great. This budget equips Norway for the future. With regard to energy supply, too, the government has promoted a budget that facilitates work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1471	I want to start with what I forgot after my previous post, and that's to take up the Christian People's Party proposal. I didn't get to say everything I wanted to say in my first post, so I want to take the opportunity to focus on population growth, which is strong in and around the cities. It is therefore important to strengthen collective action and to facilitate the development of multiple routes. In this way, we will provide several alternatives to the car, and the Christian People's Party would probably have gone further than what we were able to do in cooperation with the government parties in terms of charges in the one-off and user charges and in environmental taxes. That being said, the budget has agreed on several positive aspects. Among other things, we've given a raise in terms of an increased bet on hydrogen. It was interesting to read about the Wessel small power company at Rotnes Bruk in Nittedal. He wants to establish hydrogen production in connection with the Rotne power plant, a power plant that is up to rv. 4th@item: inlistbox This new work may open up opportunities for small-scale power producers to obtain revenues from self-produced hydrogen to replace diesel and petrol. The development of hydroelectric electric cars, boats and trains has the power to trigger the green shift. Another important step is the creation of the new company Renewable AS, a company that will develop and use green technology together with private individuals. Together with the establishment of a new agreement with Enova, an aid scheme for hydrogen filling stations will be an important success factor. It will be interesting to follow developments. What we know is that the number of low-emission cars is now rapidly increasing, and that access to charging and filling points is an increasingly critical bottleneck for further deployment of zero-emission cars. It's a shame if missing charging points slow the conversion. Finally, the Christian People's Party has for several years promised to grant transfer tariffs. We are pleased that we managed – again – to halve the cut from the government to make less price differences on electricity. So we compensate for the areas where geographical conditions make the power supply considerably more expensive. Here we would like to have more millions than the 20 we finally agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1484	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1487	Let me start by saying that I think the job that Tine Sundtoft did in Paris was very good. Although I disagreed with some of the negotiating points that Norway had, I believe she did a good job, and she deserves all credit for that. - That's what they say. Let me start by saying that the new climate minister's background is the international and world, and I do think that a little bit of the problem of Norwegian climate policy, and in particular other environmental policies during this government's period, is that one has been very concerned about the world and little about Norway. We have now received a new climate minister who inherits what, in my opinion, is a dark chapter in the history of Norwegian nature protection. In 27 of the 28 plan items – the last I spoke – that have been on the government’s table, where environmental interests have been threatened, the environment has been downgraded: irresponsible oil transhipment to Right’s financial contributors has been allowed. Extensive snowmobile rides are open that threaten the quiet nature experience. It is open for copper mining waste to be dumped in Repparfjord and mining waste to be dumped in the Fördefjord and destroyed on the seabed and to be harmful to fish species on the red list. There is a natural diversity report – yes, it has already arrived – from the new minister. We don't have an animal to lose, we don't have a species to lose. Nature is threatened, and not because of one wrong decision or one wrong extension – no, the problem is that bit by bit nature is destroyed and the species are wiped out at a pace we haven't seen since the dinosaurs were wiped out. That's why we have to bet on the broad work to prevent the measures that bit by bit destroy nature. We have a greater commitment to nature diversity in our budgets, a greater commitment to forest protection and a greater commitment to cultural protection. We even promoted yesterday a proposal for a law on the fundamental law on the rights of all persons, to which I hope that the Stortinge will join in the next majority period. We have received a new climate minister who has himself been sitting in the government that has not provided a significant response to the reduction of Norwegian climate emissions – everything has been pushed forward by the opposition, either by us, by the Workers' Party or by the Centre parties – and has not been able to propose credible measures to improve the air quality of cities, so that for the third winter with Right-Handling we go into a winter without a significant new grip to improve air quality. We could make air-polluting cars considerably more expensive, we could give the municipalities the right to introduce low-emission zones and higher tolls on polluting cars and higher charges on heavy-duty tyres, but the government is training everything. The consequence is that healthy people get sick, sick get sicker, and the sickest heart and lung disease dies. Therefore, my question is: When the majority now vote in favour of the proposals that we need to get a message to the Storting to implement these measures in spring 2016 – when can the Council of State promise us the measures to improve air quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1503	Finally, in the budget agreement, there is also a verbal decision on strengthening efforts to combat local air pollution, but I was unable to find it now. Otherwise, I have to say that I am happy to take up the message of natural diversity, because there is an opportunity for the Storting to strengthen the effort so that we can really get a brake and a stop in the loss of natural diversity/biological diversity in Norway. I'm looking at this budget – where there's a boost of something over 200 million. kr in the agreement – which is only a start in the budgetary effort that one must have, and which must be reinforced in the years to come in order to achieve the objectives that we set ourselves. The efforts in the field of cultural memory protection must also be a start to a larger project and a greater effort in the years to come. So back to the climate. Today, the SSB released greenhouse gas emissions figures in Norway in 1990–2014. Emissions have fallen slightly, by 400,000 tonnes, by 0.8 pst, but in order to achieve the 2020 climate agreement objective, there are still 6.2 million tonnes. So one has to go up to over 1.2 million tons of reduction every year to achieve this goal. Efforts must then be stepped up, especially in the transport sector. Industry must do what they do, they must continue to reduce. Then we must have a completely different effort also in the oil and gas sector. Many people also praise the oil and gas sectors in this debate because they have a high CO2 tax and are taking action to reduce emissions. But in 2014, the oil and gas sector again increased by more than 6 pst. If we are to achieve the targets, one in the oil and gas sector must have a reduction in concrete emissions by 2020. But this is primarily about the transport sector, and it is about getting distribution up. Now we have made biofuels competitive – biogas is competitive. I was in Ås yesterday and opened a new biogas reactor. They're also selling the first to Slovakia, so there's a lot going on here. An electric car has to build an infrastructure for it. To get this changed quickly, the work of the Green Tax Commission is going to be absolutely crucial, because economic incentives work. That's what we do in the state budgets to make it more expensive to pollute, while one makes it easier to make the green choices, which are crucial to achieving the 2020 target. This must be done with great gravity in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1521	When someone is going to build a bridge, everyone agrees that then they have to set some very clear goals, make a very clear progress plan – decide on how much money they spend, how much concrete they want to use, how long the bridge should be, and when it is to be finished. That's how you deliver results. The climate and environmental policies of this government have been strikingly reversed. Here in this Chamber it has been impossible to get concrete answers on how the development of emissions in the oil and gas sectors should be, how emissions in the transport sector should be, what measures will be taken to ensure that biodiversity in Norway is preserved, etc. So I want to take this opportunity – where we have got a new and exciting climate and environment minister – to address a strong call to the Council of State to try to deliver a new way of dealing with these issues by providing clear answers that will enable the opinion and for this room to come back and examine whether government deliveries have been real, and to work together to get to the emission cuts, the protective measures and the other measures that need to be taken to ensure the Norwegian nature and the earth's climate. In addition, I would like to thank our excellent secretariat for reminding me that I have not mentioned our proposal. So I'm dealing with proposal number. 10. from the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1532	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1535	Let me start by answering the question that Rasmus Hansson just asked from this speaker: What is the development of emissions in the oil and gas sector? Well, emissions are going down by 43 p.m., along with the rest of the EU. It may be that Rasmus Hansson is not a member of the EU ETS, but that is the truth, and that sector’s emissions are going down by 43 pst, as the rest of the EU ETS. I am a little surprised at the story of the future of oil and gas industry that we have heard here today. In my view, the story that many of the representatives come with shows a weak understanding of how the global energy market is going to develop, and not least how the Norwegian oil and gas industry actually works and develops. It is quite right, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås said earlier today, that Norwegian oil and gas industries cannot live with the current oil price. Therefore, it is in the process of cutting costs. It is crucial to be able to participate and deliver in the future market. Climate requirements are going to be more stringent, and the oil price is likely to remain lower than before, albeit higher than today. Global technology developments are going to be faster, both in the global petroleum industry and in other energy industries. It will require an offensive attitude from the Norwegian petroleum industry, if they want to participate and deliver energy in the future. I'm absolutely sure they'll do that, and they're going to get it done. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised at the Workers' Party, which requires a lot of action and complains that the government is not doing enough. What has the Labour Party proposed in the budget as the main measure for the oil and gas industry? Well, it's primarily a better law of permacy, which means that I really have to ask questions about whether the Workers' Party at all agrees that costs have to be reduced, and that it also means that fewer people will have to work in the industry. So there's this with well-plugging, and the view of it has become much more moderate than what the Workers' Party talked about earlier. Then it was about the state having to provide well-plugging, that one had to give up and get started. They've been reduced to want an overview. But what's the industry itself saying is important? The industry says they need stable framework conditions at this demanding time, and they need access to new areas. We have delivered it: we deliver stable framework conditions, and we deliver on the 23rd concession round. It's the most important thing for the industry now, in combination with a better research effort. It is also fascinating to hear the Workers' Party demanding so much more action in climate policy, and they are outraged by the lack of action, while they are unable to stand here today and deliver a single new proposal themselves. They want a new climate settlement, but they leave the government with all the proposals. With respect to reporting: the Labour Party has full opportunity to make suggestions itself, if they want to. But the truth may be that the Workers' Party will rather wait for the government, because they see it as more likely to agree with us – because, after all, we agree quite a lot – than to have to make a deal with their former government colleagues in SV and perhaps future members of the Greens' Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1552	First, we put behind the years of Outdoor Life, and I want to start by commending all the volunteers who have stood on and making sure that this has been a great success. The state spends an average of 57 000 kroner each year on repairing the health of each of us. Think what we could save if we had spent more of that money to avoid people getting sick. The government's draft budget proposes to cut down heavily on activity support for outdoors. The Labour Party believes that we should do the opposite, and today promotes a number of proposals to strengthen outdoor life in Norway. Just before the Paris Summit, the Prime Minister went out and almost canceled the climate agreement. She has not only promised to follow it up, she has even promised that the climate agreement will be reinforced. Then we hear – Tine Sundtoft used to do it, and Nikolai Astrup did the same thing instead – that they owe everyone else. Well, the climate agreement was adopted in 2012 – now we are in 2015. It's been three years, and two of the three years have been with this government. This government must take responsibility and make proposals to achieve our commitments. I would like the Minister for Climate Change to take the floor during this debate and confirm that the objectives are firm, that both the 2012 climate agreement and the 2030 targets are firm, and that we are gradually told how he intends to achieve them. We hear that it is a minister and a government waiting for the EU agreement. We heard the Prime Minister say in the autumn Question Time that it could go into 2017 and that after that it would come up with proposals. It seems almost as if this government has planned to go ahead of the implementation of climate policy. I am in favour of having an agreement with the EU as soon as possible, but we do not have to wait until they have concluded an agreement to propose where we are going. We know that we're going to cut emissions by about 40 pst, and in any case, Norway is going to equip itself for a low-carbon society. The working party is in favour of a new climate settlement, but if the government is totally reprehensible, I think it is a little special. The previous government had a majority, but thought it was a good idea to make a deal with the other parties. Now climate policy is at the forefront of climate policy, and they refuse to cooperate with others. We have a government that has not promoted a single proposal on how to achieve the objectives. On the contrary, the only proposal advanced by Mrs Sundtoft was a hollowing-out of the management plan regime. Fortunately, it was rejected by all other parties. Finally, outside here, the air is heavy and contaminated, and unlike very many other environmental problems, this is something we can only do about ourselves. We can't blame others. I am curious whether the Minister of Climate Change agrees with the Oslo City Council that we have to do something about this, or whether he agrees with the Minister of Finance that this is something we do not have to do with. This increase has previously adopted a number of proposals on how to improve air quality, and I am excited about how the climate minister responds to those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1567	There has been a lot of talk about the Paris agreement and the consequences for Norwegian oil and gas production. I think we sometimes have to remind ourselves that we have actually done a lot of good work together, both in the government and in the Storting. One of the things that we agree on is that we still have to work with our EU partners on the quota sector, as we have done for a long time, but also outside the quota sector. The compulsory sector consists roughly of energy production and energy processing. These include: The representative, Bru, was present, shall reduce the CO2 emissions from there by 43 pst. towards 2030. It will affect us too. This will include, inter alia: This means that the cost of emitting CO2 and other greenhouse gases from energy production will increase, fortunately contributing to a reduction in the enormous improvement in the competitiveness of coal used for power generation. We heard what Amber Rudd, UK Minister for Energy and Climate, said three weeks ago. The United Kingdom will achieve its targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by phase-out of all coal and replacing it with gas over a period of 10 years in a large power system, and we know that a significant proportion of the gas used by the United Kingdom comes from Norway. In addition to the fact that Norwegian cap is included in the European climate quota agenda, we are doing a great job. The high cost of emissions of CO2 on Norwegian soil means that the only two large carbon capture plants in Europe are on Norwegian soil. They're on Sleipner and Snow White. We operate with lower energy consumption than any other land in the world, and our export solutions and production solutions are much greater than in any other country based on clean, renewable hydropower. We see that the supplier industry of this fantastic industry is looking for new opportunities and finding them. Aibel is the largest exporter of renewable technology this year, the ship yard Kleven enters into contracts for the construction of construction ships for wind power, and the funny thing is that it goes the other way too, because today Statoil has informed me that they are going to build a field partly based on technology derived from the sea wind deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1589	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1592	To Tina Bru: The oil industry is planning for 4 degree heating. Obviously, in such a scenario, there will be room for a lot more oil. There's no one I've seen, for example. The IEA, which is planning for a 1.5 degree scenario, and I will challenge the Minister of Oil and Energy to, on a professional basis, provide a calculation for the Stortinget to see how Norwegian oil and gas would fit into a 1.5 degree scenario. To Jan-Henrik Fredriksen: Erik Solheim was designated as the «champion of the world» for his efforts to see the climate and development policies in the context. I don't expect the representative to remember it, but that's true. The third thing is air quality. There was an untruth from Jan-Henrik Fredriksen. He said it was the red-green government that was convicted. The emissions were in the red-green period, but what was condemned for was that the dark-blue government was not willing to put forward a plan for how to get the emissions under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1601	Let me first state that the objectives of the climate agreement are fixed, there have been questions related to it. But it's just as clear that it's a great job to reach them. We didn't come to the deck table. The representative of Astrup has previously explained the situation well. It is also the case that many of the measures take time to take effect. This applies, inter alia, to: our record bet on the railway. It'll give results, but it'll take time. This also applies to our record investment in technology development. With regard to climate policy and our interaction with the EU: we are not waiting for the EU. It is not without reason that the European Commissioner for Energy and Climate Change, among others. has pointed to the leadership role played by Tine Sundtoft and the Norwegian Government internationally. However, we have to wait for the EU decision-making processes in relation to the regulatory framework for the implementation of the climate objectives, because it is the joint implementation that is at stake. Joint implementation is precisely that: joint implementation. That is why it is important to be ahead of us when the EU develops that legislation. We are not sitting at the table, the more important it is that we are active to shape and influence the development of the legislation. Let me say – in terms of air quality – that the representative Holmås has a fresh style, but it must be said that the style is fresher than the air his government left behind in Norwegian cities. The period covered by the EFTA Court is 2009–2012. The national audit report covers the work of the authorities between 2005 and 2014. There's a lot to do here, and we're going on. In 2014, there were no Norwegian cities with exceedances of the limit values for particulate matter. There were new figures today showing that emissions of particulate matter in 2014 were 8 pst. lower than in 2013 and the emission of most pollutants decreases. There are several cities with exceedances of the stricter national targets, both for particulate matter and for NO2. These include: the reason why the government decided to improve the health of the population to increase the maximum levels for particulate matter from 1 January 2016. It will help to facilitate compliance with EU requirements, as Norwegian requirements become stricter than EU minimum requirements. Then it is important that local authorities use the means they already have, as well as the means we have decided to give them further. Finally, we follow up the request decisions Stortinget has taken on local air. We're going to facilitate the establishment of low-emission zones. The Department of Transport is in the process of doing so. The Minister for Transport has, among other things: recently met with the relevant municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1619	It may be time to round the debate and wish each other a good Christmas, but before we do, I think it's okay to note a few things. First of all, we have now seen that the government, through three attempts, three budget proposals, has tried somehow to create a certain kind of enthusiasm in climate action. It has not happened – in no way. On the contrary, the budgetary proposals of the government have created frustration, anger and despair. It is a reality. Then we are part of the boring debate on the climate representative Astrup mentioning its high level of ambition on behalf of the Right in the context of the negotiations on the climate agreement in 2012. Yes, but where has it become by the level of ambition after 2012? It's completely gone, completely erased. There's not a trace of it left. We are now hearing the new Minister for Climate Change and the Environment talk about the historic investment on the railways. Who started it? That was the red-green government. Then it became a quantum lift for the railway. When did technology build up and focus on technology development, on creating a framework for it for industry and business? Yes, it was under the red-green government. Then the measures began. There was nothing that began with today's government. It wasn't. I am pleased that the Minister for Climate and Environment says that the 2012 agreement is firm. But then I need confirmation that this will mean that the Minister for Climate and Environment is now committed to, as the Paris Agreement is an ambitious agreement that also includes more developed countries, that carbon neutrality will take place by 2030, as Norway commits to reducing measures similar to Norway's emissions. It could have been a good idea to confirm it too. So to the proposals that have been promoted and that are not supported by the government parties or the supporting parties: only one action – carbon capture and storage. The whole world community agrees that we need to find some sort of carbon capture and storage system in order to achieve our climate commitments and the goals set. However, the government parties and the supporting parties are voting against a proposal asking the government to establish at least one full-scale CO2 management facility by 2020, in Norway. They agree that that activity should be stepped up. The level of ambition for climate change is totally absent from today's government, and I also sometimes think that the support parties are very little ambitious when new proposals are submitted in the context of the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1633	I was in a previous post saying that the generation perspective is a red thread in the committee's work. Not least this may be true of cultural memory, which has been mentioned by many today, although the attention here may be more focused on past generations' activities and less on the green shift forward. It has been pointed out in the debate that the 2020 targets can be difficult to achieve. Then I would like to remind you of the large investment the government made on ship protection, with a strong increase in the post by 40 million. kr. There is a demanding situation for the yard and workshop industries as a result of reduced activity in the petroleum sector. These means can help out a little bit. So the Norwegian Association for the Protection of Vessels itself has written on its websites: ‘The association is very positive about the increase in public support for ship protection in recent years and we are now significantly closer to the Storting’s own objective of normal maintenance of cultural memories by 2020.’ That all entries in a comprehensive area cannot have similar increases in the situation we are today, I think everyone understands. Prioritisation and priority given to work, change and activity by the government. It is necessary at a time when we see increasing unemployment and the greatest movement of refugees the world has seen since the war. I also welcome the fact that several other items in the cultural memory area have been strengthened both through the budgetary conciliation and in the budgetary cooperation between the four parties in the Committee. We are talking here about grants to the ship protection centre, the World Heritage Site and the Cultural Memory Fund. In the case of the Valuation Programme of the Riksantikvaren, the four lots have found room for an additional increase of 2 million. kr, which we believe should be used by the regional pilgrimage centres to ensure and increase activity there. Then I agree with the representative of Arnstad that there is an important debate, this with cultural memories. The Council of State has today announced a review, and I believe that we must all contribute to a good debate on this when it comes to the Stortinget, because it is an important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1652	I understand that the opposition, and the working party in particular, is the drawer, which stood for the largest gastric plaque in the climate action anywhere, and then I'm thinking about Mongstad. Now, when they are in the debate and talk about this government's bet being completely gone and wiped out, they must have completely forgotten what they themselves stood for in the eight years when they had the opportunity to do something. A relatively independent negotiator, the representative Hansson of the Green Party, does not exactly praise what happened the eight years before this government came into place, whereas this government has actually been involved in a global breakthrough, a historic breakthrough, with the Paris Agreement, where one of the councils was one of the real behinders and got this in place. We have a record climate fund, we have a record turnover on transportation, and we have a number of other measures that could have been developed here. So the representative of Aasland claims that it always stops. Even tell them that the brakes were on in the eight previous years, when they were in government. Whoever braked then, we got to the right from the representative of Astrup. When it came to getting a common understanding of all the parties to make a climate deal, it was the Labour Party that made the Progress Party not a part of it. The working party strongly argues in the opposition, but leaves it in position. So some words in the end about Statkraft's investment plan, and one criticises that they've taken out 5 billion. kr of the investment funds. We think of Statkraft's bet on the Snillfjord-Fosen project, which was to become the world's largest wind power plant, and it was said that it was a robust plant. There was a time, and then one concluded that it was not that robust. One would actually greatly reduce this investment. That means that the government of Statkraft created an investment plan that was far less ambitious than he was originally, and it was only to be lacking that one then had no opportunity to take out the resources that they had received and that was at the root of the big effort on Snillfjord-Fosen that was nothing of – at least not at the size it was originally intended to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1661	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1664	Time does not now allow us to continue the debate. I'm just going to promise the representative Grimstad that we'll come back in the New Year with our ambitions, our actions and our launches. Then we'll see who it is that is most ambitious, and whether that was a reason why the Progress Party was outside the 2012 climate agreement or not. When I interpret and read the government, I clearly see that in the environment and climate areas, the government has major problems delivering. No one is satisfied outside the government offices with what the government presents. The reason for this is the Progress Party – simple and straightforward: The Advance Party is the reason for this. As far as Statkraft is concerned, when we talk about gastric plaques, it may have to be one of the largest gastric plaques that can at least be found within the principles of ownership management, the government parties, together with the cooperation parties, chose to do when it came to governing State power through remarks and extracts of money in the context of budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1673	It was the representative Grimstad who made me take the floor, because if the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party were so poorly informed about the Government's plans for wind turbines on Fosen as the representative of the Progress Party here uses, they may have made a decision to remove 5 billion. kr in capital in error. It's true that State power in ours expressed that they weren't going to invest. This led to a major debate, including among the big business representatives. But then it is that in retrospect a foreign investor has both come in, and Statkraft has said that they want to re-assess an investment. So there have been positive signals from State Power, and it's the positive signals that are now going to manifest, hopefully in January. These are the signals the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party are at risk with a completely irresponsible ownership policy, where they pick 5 billion. kr away from the company without any justification – which we know has led to the fact that State power will not invest in sea wind, an area the entire Energy and Environment Committee believes it is important to invest in. But there is no desire for the large industrial engine in Norway for renewable energy to be able to play a role in the future. There is almost little help with the demonstration facilities that Stortinget wants to develop. The representative of Aasland mentioned the railway, and then I saw that there was a bit of shaking on his head among the representatives of the government parties. When the red-greens entered the government, i.e. after the last time the Right joined the government, the investments to the railway were 1 billion. kr. When we went out after eight years, they were over six billion. kr. So we were almost 1 billion. kr every one year on the railway. The Minister of Transport continues to boast that the increase has been 50 pst. on the railway during the period during which this government has been sitting. 30 of the 50 percent were the red-green government that put forward in its last budget in 2013. It was fought by the red-green parties, and then it was carried on by Solvik-Olsen – and it is excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1684	When I hear the description of reality put on the table by the representative of Aasland – insofar as the government's work on the relationship between energy and climate issues is general, but in particular carbon capture and storage – I need to remember that it was probably not rhetorical and ambitious that was the problem for the previous government. On the contrary, you ran the champagne cork quite often, it was big words, and it was moon landing and one and the other. It ended with a fairly solid crash landing, which I had to spend the first three to four months of my time in office cleaning up. The government is betting extensively on carbon capture and storage. We have strengthened the commitment to research and development in carbon capture and storage in the climate programme. Work is well-targeted internationally and locally at the test centre in Mongstad. Instead of linking ourselves to one actor and one solution and just deciding – before you know what to decide – how to do something, we have built rocks on rocks. We have now concluded agreements with three different actors: the Energy Recovery Kit in Oslo and Yara and Norcem in Telemark. We are now working on a decision-making basis for how we can best proceed with full-scale carbon capture and storage. I will warn against standing in the staging room and putting the Fosen project dead. The Fosen project is now being targeted in Norway and the rest of the world. I don't think the project is worth sitting here and more or less keeping the tomb for the project when it's worked hard and focused on many places to realize it. What determines whether the Fosen project is being built or not is whether it is profitable to expand it. From the government's point of view, we've made it easier to figure it out by allowing a larger proportion of the windmills to stand where the wind blows best. Both the efforts we have made to strengthen inter-national links with Europe, and the efforts we have made to enable support for Hydro Karmøy's increased power generation, will help to strengthen the profitability of the Fosen project. I'm glad that many people work hard to realize what's going to be the biggest wind power project in Norway's history.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1695	The representative Tina Bru has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1698	Given the crisis description of the Workers' Party here is part of the government's climate policy, it would be expected that proposals from the Workers' Party would streamline on how this could improve. So it doesn't. I can't interpret it in any other way than that there's actually much greater consensus between the Right, the Advance Party and the Labour Party in climate policy than it's expressed from this pulpit and from what's happening in the committee, than Terje Aasland says. I also believe that the position in the Committee shows – that is a greater consensus than what is described by the Chair of the Aasland representative today. I would encourage the Workers' Party to take the responsibility they obviously believe the government is not taking, and start making suggestions, if it is so bad. Then we'll have to wait and see when it can come. With that, I get to thank you for the debate and wish you a good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1707	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1710	I just want to be allowed to correct a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the Council of State. At least the centre party has never said that the Fosen project could not be realized. We've never killed it. It's possible that the representative Grimstad was a little bit involved, but we haven't said that. What we have said is that the government has risked the project in an irresponsible way by barring the company for access to capital just before an investment decision is taken. There is nothing less than irresponsible ownership policy, which has taken place in its night hours to bring together a difficult budgetary balance, unfortunately – and with a lack of understanding of what this means by industrial opportunities. Then I will be allowed to wish the assembly a Merry Christmas and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1717	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has also asked for the floor. He has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute, possibly to wish Christmas – what does the President know?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1720	I was really just going to thank you for the debate and try not to say anything that prolongs it. I also want to remind you of the things that we have actually agreed on. Some major decisions have been made in the Storting in the year that has passed. There are eight parties that have agreed that we should commit to the EU's 40 pst target. reduction by 2030. There are eight parties that express support for the Paris Agreement and the commitments that lie there, and are doing well to ensure that there is also a strengthening over time. There are eight batches which also confirm that the objectives of the climate agreement and the 2020 targets – and then the emission targets – are set. All of this is committed in the years to come by the fact that a truly stronger effort – and strengthening it significantly. There's also the disagreement. I guess everyone has experience that both the environment and climate struggle are just that: a fight, and at least the Left is willing to stand in the future. But I would say that this proposal, and the agreement, is a good measure for the year we go into. And then I have to have time to wish a good Christmas before I leave the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1730	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1744	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Mr Eide has the floor for Mr Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1753	Following the submission of the vote on Document 8 proposal for a stronger state commitment to the maintenance of protected churches, the Director of the Church Employers' and Interests' Organisation made a quick comment: ‘This is an important victory for the administration of Norwegian church buildings!’ It has been a simple task to be rapporteur on this matter. Both the government parties and the opposition share their views on the proposals for Decisions I and II. The government has already committed itself to contributing to a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protected churches through its political platform. That is why it is positive that we now have a reinforced strategy – a strategy that is clear on how medieval stone churches, peaceful post-reformist churches and especially important churches from after 1650 ensure proper maintenance. It is a demanding issue if it is right to introduce municipalities that have not done their job, with state support, but the option is that nothing is done. One might then wonder why it's so important to take care of these old churches. Yes, look at our neighboring country in Europe. They have their beautiful goods and castles while we have the churches. History tells us that churches were the first to be built when one gathered in cities and towns. These buildings still have a local position that no other buildings have. They have followed and followed people in the great joys and sorrows of life. They have also been part of the history of community in good and bad days. That's why it's so important to take care of these buildings. We can't afford to let them fall due. In addition, the establishment of conservation programmes following the inspiration of the Riksantikvaren stagkkirche programme has been considered by a majority in order to ask the government for the strategy. The Stavkirche programme has been a success, a program that is now in its final phase. 28 staves have been raised to a sound level, and a lot of good work has been done. The maintenance provider now needs to be passed on to other sheltered and protected churches. Here's a lot of catching up. We know Norwegian municipal economy. When the municipalities are financially responsible for the maintenance, we understand why the delay has become so great. No one in the committee wants to rock by saying that the municipalities remain formal owners and are responsible for the churches, but they need help. Unfortunately, skipper roofs, short-term and acute solutions are all too often. Therefore, stronger State involvement in the form of reinforcements is needed. This must be a piece of work between the municipality and the state, a real effort for the protective churches. We look forward to putting in place the strategy, a maintenance plan, and we look forward to a conservation program for these churches. The Christian People's Party is united with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the proposal to set up a separate fund – a church cultural memory fund. This could provide a long-term solution for ongoing maintenance after the restoration of church buildings. It is a pity that the Left and the Government parties do not support this proposal. Finally, I would like to thank the entire Committee for its good cooperation in this matter and recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1777	I fully agree with what Marit Arnstad said in the budget debate, that we are probably spending too little time and have little political attention on discussing the importance of cultural memories. Cultural memories do not go to the top of the political agenda unless something has gone very wrong, that important cultural memories have been destroyed forever. I'm excited to hear the Minister's views in this area, the ambitions he has to ensure that important cultural memories are preserved for the future. The Labour Party believes that new initiatives are needed in this area. In the autumn we promoted a proposal on cultural memories to be dealt with here in the Stortinget in March. We look forward to cooperating with the other parties and hope for broad support for our proposal. Today we are discussing our churches, and I want to praise the Central Party and the Christian People's Party for promoting these proposals. Our church buildings, as the rapporteur said, are important cultural memories that must be preserved and secured against decay. The state of very many of the protected and listed churches in Norway is not good enough, and it is a great aftermath of the maintenance and repair of these churches. The need to draw up a plan for the maintenance of church buildings is great, and we believe it is important that the government launch an investigation and get a strategy on how to ensure proper maintenance of stone churches from the Middle Ages, peaceful churches and especially important churches from after 1650. In addition to that, I believe that I refer only to the rapporteur's very good contributions. The Workers' Party wholeheartedly supports the argument that Rigmor Andersen Eide gave, and also supports with most parties all the proposals in this case. We are pleased that there is broad support for some, and then we find it regrettable that one of the proposals is unfortunately rejected by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. In addition to that, I realize that it is a good cuty as it approaches Christmas to end the last article by saying good Christmas. Then I also get to do that, and I want the Stortinget and the Committee Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1790	It has been a pleasure to cooperate with the Committee and, in particular, the rapporteur on this document 8, the proposal we are discussing here today. The Committee has largely agreed with the comments and there is an overall committee behind two out of three proposals that are being promoted. From an old age, it is the communities that have been responsible for church buildings, and so it is today. We have many old, peaceful and protective churches in Norway, and there is a strong consensus that these must be properly maintained. The responsibility for the churches lies with the Ministry of Culture. The right suggests that no changes should be made to the formal ownership and liability conditions and that the current sectoral principle should continue. It does not in any way prevent good dialogue and cooperation between the different departments that have their responsibilities here. The Committee asks the government to draw up a reinforced strategy on how to achieve an adequate level of maintenance for stone churches from the Middle Ages, the protected post-reformer churches and especially important churches from after 1650. The preservation program for our stave churches has now been completed. After many years and a special program, the job is done. On the right is behind the Committee's proposal that other churches should also have their conservation programme assessed as part of their strategy work. The government grants grants to many churches through the interest-rate compensation scheme. Since the beginning of 2005, 859 churches have benefited from the scheme, which has contributed to an investment volume of 3.3 billion. kr. As of October 8, 130 million were applied for. SEK 500 million of the year's frame. kr, and the budgetary agreement also provides for a significant framework next year. With regard to the proposal to set up a dedicated church cultural memory fund, the Right considers that today's compensation scheme has acted as an excellent source of funding. We also have a cultural memory fund that primarily targets private owners of protective cultural memories. Now we all look forward to the reinforced strategy that the Storting is now asking the government to investigate. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to wish Christmas to the entire committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1807	Church buildings are an important part of the Norwegian cultural heritage, and many of the churches are not only important cultural memories, they are also buildings that still carry large parts of our history. Historically, the community has largely been responsible for church buildings. That's the way it is today. According to the Church Act, the municipalities are responsible for the financial responsibility, while the Norwegian Church’s parishes as owners are responsible for the operation and administration through their church councils. This is not a matter that will change ownership and responsibilities for the churches or the current sector principle, where responsibility is placed in the Ministry of Culture, but a matter in which we should look at the possibilities for strengthening the security work of peaceful and protective churches, so that they can be properly secured. The State is currently contributing through the interest-rate compensation scheme by providing a grant to the municipality equivalent to interest expenditure on the investment when a municipality establishes a church. The Church, Education and Research Committee has examined its budget for the following year, and the interest-rate compensation mechanism has continued, so that this has been put in place. I believe that we are all concerned about the major challenges of maintenance and follow-up with regard to our churches, and on that very basis, the Progress Party supports I and II in the proposal, but we are going to vote against III. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish everyone a peaceful Christmas and a good new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1820	Church buildings are a cultural and historic anchorage in many communities. It might seem obvious, but I think it's important in this case that we stress that the church buildings have a meaning that goes far beyond religion. All Norwegian church buildings have two important dimensions. On the one hand, they are the building and services of the congregation; on the other, they are also the cultural heritage of the community, a cultural heritage shared by all members of a community, regardless of belief. From an old age, it is the community that has had the task of building, maintaining and managing the churches and cemeteries. According to the church law, churches and cemeteries are administered by the church councils on behalf of the church, which normally own the churches. There are a few churches that are privately owned. This is the case in the first row of the staves, where several are owned by the Pre-Memory Association. The country's commitment to preserving this part of Norwegian cultural heritage has been and is quite limited. First of all, there is a rate of grants via the Riksantikvaren for specially selected – and I would like to be allowed to say specifically selected, very few – church buildings and also a wide-ranging maintenance interest compensation scheme where all municipalities can apply for grants. If you have ambitions to lift this field, it is absolutely necessary to launch new tools and add more resources. In a situation where municipal politicians have tight frameworks and demanding tasks, there should be no need for the state to assume a greater part of the responsibility. The real issue is that the state should take joint responsibility for the large maintenance service that this cultural heritage now needs, and as requested by the municipalities and the Council of Churches Working Committee. I don't think anyone should underestimate how extensive this job is going to be, because it's very large. The challenges we are talking about will not be solved during a budget year or two. When we took the 28 stave churches, it cost 150 million. NOK and took almost 15 years. There were 28 churches. That is why the Committee on Energy and the Environment has stressed that the great task we are now facing will have to be solved over a long period of time. The more important it is that you get started. That seems the center party there is reason to underline. It is important to get started, and it is also important to stress that this proposal does not address any changes in the administrative responsibilities of the church buildings. It will remain mainly with the municipalities. I am very pleased that today we have a unanimous attitude from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, where the Stortinget asks the government to develop a strategy for ensuring a good level of maintenance for medieval stone churches, peaceful post-reformer churches and especially important churches from after 1650. It tells me that we are on the right track when the committee has been able to end up with so much of the content and also the proposals contained in Document 8. So the majority of the committee wanted to go one step further, one step further than the majority in the Chamber is likely to do. The majority of the Committee has pointed out that the split-layer model and the possibility of setting up a church cultural memory fund should also be implemented. This model has the advantage of ensuring a solid foundation and ensures that all parties have to contribute. No one can waive the responsibility, but the state, the municipality and also the private must be able to contribute together to make an effort. The centre party still believes that that model has a future in front of it, and that it will be necessary to get back to it at a later date. It's worth reminding us marines, when we think about this question, that in Sweden is 87 pst. of the approximately 3,500 Lutheran churches they have, peaced by the law of cultural memory. In England, 75 pst. of the 16 000 Anglican church buildings they have, ‘listed’, i.e. The peace. But in Norway, only 14 pst. by the churches, while 46 pst. is listed. There is a great job that remains in this area, and if you see sheltered churches in Norway as a whole, it's only 60 pst. – and then we also include the stave churches – of them peace. That means that the job we have in front of us is great. I think we're taking an important first step at that job today. I am very pleased with the cooperation we have had in the committee, and I also believe that the proposal that does not get a majority today, we will have to deal with it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1841	This is a very important and good proposal. I agree with what many have said about the importance of the churches, both historically, architecturally and as cultural memories and cultural bearers in Norway. Here we are embarking on a work for a strategy for a large proportion of the churches in Norway. It is particularly important when we take the wide spectrum from medieval stone churches, after-reformist churches and especially important churches after 1650. It is important to put in place a strategy to know the extent of the work we need to do in order to get maintenance, and what will then be the responsibility of the various actors, what the municipalities should be, and how much of this state should take. Let it be clear that on the left, we believe that the State should take greater responsibility than just having an interest-rate compensation scheme. The reason why we don't accept proposals for a church cultural memory fund is because I'm not sure if it's the right format. I even think it's strange that we set up our own cultural memory fund for churches while we have a cultural memory fund that's not a fund, where the parties that are proposing a church cultural memory fund here just went away from the old cultural memory fund and made it just a post on the state budget where we're granting a sum of money. I think that might be what we should also do when we come back with the plans, and when we know what we need to do to follow up the strategy that is to come. There is a lot of reference to the municipalities. Yes, we certainly need to have efforts and support for the municipalities. We should remember that the municipalities not only have the peaceful and important churches to take care of, they have all the churches they have to take care of. Now many of them were built in the 1950s and 1960s, which also sorely need maintenance. Much of the effort the municipalities have, must also go against those churches. I think this is a very good initiative. It's important, and I'm absolutely sure this is the beginning of something that's going to be of great importance in the years to come. I am also quite sure that when it comes to funding itself, we will have ample opportunity to discuss it when the strategy is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1855	I start by commending the proposers for a good process in the committee. I think that the broad consensus we have in the committee shows that there is a general excitement that the churches are important cultural memories. Even I always do that when I'm traveling around the world, trying to visit some of the most beautiful churches in other cities, take a walk in and light a little light for an old friend and for my grandmother. Although I am not a Christian, they were now – and if they are right, they will certainly appreciate these lights. There's something about the fact that such old churches may be the closest thing we get to our own story, because they've been there for so long. It gives a comfort and a pleasure to be able to visit the kind of old buildings and know that here are the other people who have been comforted by their grief, pain relief, going to school, doing other things, and known by that feeling to be part of a larger whole somehow. There's something that everyone can appreciate regardless of religion and outlook on life. And then it also gives you a historical insight. The churches have been important, both Norwegian and foreign, and now the Norwegian we are talking about, in a historical context. All that has been good with the church, and all that has not been good, we also remember. I'm thinking in our areas, i.e. Norway, how our churches went from being Catholic churches to being Protestant churches to funding warriors to the kings of that time, how history has been where the church has been in a position to demand money and to be the richest administrators, which the Catholic Church in and of itself still is, how the fight against female priests is part of our own time in the church, which I'd say is a slightly darker story that's nice to look back on. Just think that when the first female priest was married, there were several of the bishops who refused to be present when it happened. I also think about the role they have played in public education and reading and writing – even I took my secondary education at a cathedral school in Bergen, the cathedral schools were the big, important first engines for higher education in our country – and how the churches have stood as buildings. For example, the historical protection that lies in the church and the houses of God has made it possible for us to do so. asylum-seekers have been able to seek protection there when they have been wronged by the State. I have been in several cases where Norway has been convicted in the Human Rights Court, where the child had just received protection in a church building. The power that lies in the church and all of its function is to take care of the creation. Although this has led to, among other things, Tina Bru has resigned from the state church, it shows some of the power that lies in the church and the whole institution. At the same time, I think that this matter where we say we have to make an extra effort for the old churches, and also encourage a little thought in those who sometimes ridicule or ridicule rickshaws and city antiques for their work to take care of buildings many might say are ugly, or who do not want to take care of them. Think of what would have happened if we had not had city antiques and national antiques and others who have said that we have some buildings that we have to take care of because they are an important part of the story. What we are doing today is just to support and strengthen the historical role of church buildings. Then I will also use the opportunity to say good Christmas both to those who are now debating, and to those who are going to come after us and debate and wait in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1872	The Church is an important cultural and history bearer in Norwegian society, as we, among other things, do. was remembered in a rich presentation right now. It gathers many of us in the great moments of life and around the big events of the year, and we're also going to see that again next week. Many of the church buildings are also important cultural memories. Often the churches will be both the oldest and the most expensive buildings. In addition to cultural memories, the active churches are churches. Many of the churches have special architectural qualities, are richly decorated and are among the foremost construction works we have in terms of structures, material selection, decorations and furnishings. There are major challenges to the maintenance of the churches. Although progress has been positive in the last ten years, there is still a strong need for the maintenance of many churches, regardless of whether the churches are defined as cultural memories or not. It is the municipalities which under the Church Act have the financial responsibility to build, operate and maintain the churches. The parishes of the Norwegian Church, the parishes, are the owners, and it is the ecclesiastical councils that are responsible for the current administration. Any strategy to strengthen the maintenance of church buildings must be based on this. ambiguities in the question of who is responsible for the maintenance of church buildings will weaken efforts. Today's principle, where the Ministry of Culture has sectoral responsibility by virtue of being a ministry of the Church, must also be taken into account in the development of a strategy to care for church buildings. The Ministry of Culture also administers the interest compensation scheme for church buildings. In addition, the Ministry of Culture provides grants for actions that can contribute to the sound management of church buildings via KA, the Church employers’ and interest groups. Of course, cultural memory authorities will be important partners in the development of a strategy for enhanced maintenance and for any conservation programme under the strategy. This will be consistent with the established division of responsibilities and roles within cultural memory management. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has the administrative responsibility for peaceful churches, as for other peaceful cultural memories. The Ministry has taken special responsibility for the 28 stave churches through the Stave Church Programme. In addition, the Riksantikvaren contributes to the restoration of church art and uses considerable resources to advise and process the administration of the churches. I agree with the committee that it is worrying that the maintenance status of many of the churches is not good. I believe that the Committee's proposal for a Decision in I and II to draw up a reinforced strategy and in this work to assess the establishment of a conservation programme following the inspiration of the Stall Church Programme can be a good measure. As mentioned above, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has taken a special responsibility through the Stable Church Programme and, together with the Riksantikvaret, can contribute valuable experiences. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees that the Culture Memory Fund should continue to be a low-threshold offer for owners of valuable cultural memories and not be involved in a split-layer model for the maintenance of the churches. In conclusion, I believe that the Committee's proposals for decisions in I and II can be good measures to follow up the political platform of the government parties that the government will contribute to a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protective churches. Let me finally – if you think to celebrate it in church or not – wish everyone a really good Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1898	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 16 and 17 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1925	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1932	I will further limit speaking time, I think, by pointing out that our own framework of both 19, 20 and 22 was actually debated when we dealt with the state budget itself. So we've basically been through that. As far as the balancing proposition is concerned, there is a consensus that, in addition to what the government is proposing, 200 million is allocated. D to the neighbourhoods in and around Syria, that this has a majority, and that this is then incorporated in the final balancing system. This was also a debate on Monday under the Foreign Affairs Committee's regrouping proposal. I'm just going to take up a correction to the setting. There are three Roman numbers that have fallen out of the 5 S resolution, but it's just the number that has fallen out. That's what we call an incurrency, isn't it? This applies to Framework Areas 19, 20 and 22, where proposals for decisions on appropriations are to be made on Roman numeral I. With this, I recommend the Committee's settings, thank the Committee for a good job, and wish both the Minister of Finance and the President a very good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1943	I received so many invitations outside the hall that I should withdraw, so I should be very, very quick. We have submitted a few additional comments in the new aging process, except for what the government has done. One is that we have raised the host municipality grant more. I think it is very good that the conciliators have invested more money to assist me. We also think it should have been added more to the host municipalities, because there has been some of the things that have happened in the autumn that have been quite dramatic for many municipalities, that new, acute asylum places have been created in a very, very short time, which has put many municipalities under pressure. What we are afraid of over time if we do not manage to achieve a better financing system is that the level of conflict locally when new receptions are received is going to increase further. We see that we don't get a majority for that in the context of the new aging process, but we had an asylum settlement and an integration settlement in the autumn that was both very good. In the integration agreement, it is a point on the funding of municipalities that they should return to it and that they should be assessed against the revised national budget for the financing of municipalities. We hope that all parties will take the greatest seriousness – that we will go in and see what the real costs are when it comes to receiving, and when it comes to integrating new refugees, so that we can take that bill from the state. It's the state that has the strongest back, not the municipalities. That's why we put it in the ejaculation. I'm not going to repeat what's in 5 S, we've debated that before, but I can repeat what I think about dividend policy, that it's unwise to do what you've done to Statkraft – that you put a lot of equity into it last year, but that this year you bottle it up to make the budget go up. I believe it is a short-term and a little wise ownership policy. Especially when we see that unemployment is on its way up, we should have let Statkraft have the muscles they need to develop new industry, new jobs and green energy on Fosen. Unfortunately, there we have lost, but I hope the government does not add it as a practice that one year you add capital and next year you bottle up capital, because that is not good ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1954	The President is of the opinion that the representative should include two proposals, one in each vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1957	That's right, President. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1962	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1965	Since most people seem to be putting tapes on today, I'm going to do it too, and just briefly say that 2015 has been a challenging year. There have been many issues for both government and big business to address. Now we're at the end of the year, and many of the things have found some decent solutions. The budget for 2016 is definitely also in place. That is why I really just want to take the opportunity to wish the Stortinget a really good Christmas and thank you for good cooperation throughout 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1975	First, I must wish the Minister of Finance Christmas. I hope she gets to have a peaceful Christmas, I think everyone needs that after this fall, not least those who are in government. Then we're going to be in the opposition. I'm going to try to have the least possible play that's gonna cause trouble at Christmas. So the point two, which I hope can get a little bit more calm. In ours, we tried to stop the discussion about Kemnerkontor. But then, obviously, the motivation for work was so high in the heart of the finance minister that she took a new fight about the chemical offices in this budget, and we are dealing with that today. Can we wait another rematch next fall, or is this case finally over?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1984	Let me first say that I very much appreciate the roughness of the representative Battle Violence Vedum. It took a long time. Let me then say that of course I take note that the Storting does not seem to believe that the chemical reform is a good reform. I would have thought and thought that it would be fooled for the sake of our future ability to fight black economy and economic crime, but I take note that the Storting does not see it the same way, and relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1992	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e1997	I thought I'd use the opportunity to say that it increases the influx of asylum seekers creates great challenges in many municipalities. We in the Centerpartiet feel that the local authorities have to be fully financed. An external report from 2013 showed that there was a gap of 70 pst. between the municipalities' actual expenditure and the host municipality's contribution to health, school and child protection services, etc. The host municipality bill is after this increase, but does not provide a very close cost coverage. The centre party therefore proposes to increase the licenses for 2015 by 100 million. kr of Chapter 490, item 60. We have also proposed this increase to be passed on in 2016 in our contribution to the State budget. Under current legislation, the bill is distributed in terms of a basic rate per municipality and bets per destination. Municipalities which have received several receptions receive one basic rate. The additional permissions proposed by the Centre Party shall be made available by giving an additional bonus of NOK 100000 per acceptance in addition to one in the municipalities which have several receptions. Otherwise, the increased backbone shall be distributed by increasing the bets per destination. If you wish municipalities to do this job properly, this is your permission.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2006	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 16 and 17. While the Stortinget is waiting for us to go to voting, the Council of State Siv Jensen will promote some royal propositions. State Council Siv Jensen exceeded 5 kg. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2026	Case No. 1–12 concerns the second processing of legislative acts and applies to the legislative acts from 31 to 42. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2033	The size is then ready to go to voting. The Storting has earlier today voted against the case No. 1-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2067	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 4, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Greens' proposals No. 11-13, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 5, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 6, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Environment Party, on Green Proposal No. 7, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 15, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 16-20, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 21-23, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Greens 8, 9 and 24, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 10, by Mr Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 25, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens Proposal No. 25 have been made available by electronic means to the representatives. There is a vote on proposal No. 10. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national plan for the systematic prioritisation of natural values and for natural deficiencies towards further development needs for renewable energy.’ The voting boards showed that 99 votes were cast against and 2 votes in favour of the proposal by the Greens/Greens/EFA. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.41.19]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2123	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2128	It's nice for him to get some support before Christmas, too! So we're correcting the number of votes. [[Laughter]] There must be 100 votes against and 1 vote in favour of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal. The proposal is therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 24, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a call for tenders for CCS in Norway during 2016.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to clarify the investment decision for the preparation of stocks of CO2 in the North Sea during 2016.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government not to enter into new contracts for the purchase of allowances through the CDM market but instead to discharge our legal obligations under Kyoto 2 through the EU allowance market [[ETS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2161	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–23, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a legislation on environmentally differentiated tolls to be put in place as soon as possible and at the latest during the spring session 2016.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to include particulate pollution as part of the calculation basis for the one-off charge on new cars, in view of the possible introduction into the 2017 State budget.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the municipalities to authorise themselves to set the level of locally introduced high-level tyres above a minimum level, or to give municipalities several different rates to choose from when introducing high-level tyres.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2187	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a permanent VAT compensation scheme related to antiquarian maintenance aimed at owners of buildings that are protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Property Tax Act which exempt all owners of buildings which are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act from municipal property tax.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose other tax relief models, which can contribute to the smooth, good maintenance of buildings which are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for a permanent grant scheme for value creation in the cultural memory sector.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an escalating plan for Norwegian cultural memory funds, so that by 2020 the fund will have 300 million. cents for annual distribution.’» The voting boards showed that 94 votes were cast against and 6 votes in favour of the proposals of the Central Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.42.32.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2222	President! I did not vote and should have voted against it!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2227	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2238	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a parallel compensation scheme for voluntary deforestation, where forest owners may choose compensation based on annual growth and a calculation of the net income that could have been taken out if the forest had not been protected. It is a prerequisite that such a parallel compensation scheme follows the farm and use number of the protected property and becomes part of the future income base of the use.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2256	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the establishment of an industry committee in which oil companies, suppliers and trade unions participate – with the aim of continuing the work on Integrated Operations following the intentions established in 2004, when this was started.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2272	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to review and simplify the rights-based support scheme for an increment in households, so that there is a benefit for households from the energy efficiency improvement measures that excises in the aid scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2288	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to carry out the assessment of including the maximum load in the notified prohibition of fossil heating with oil as soon as possible, so that it can be included in the notified legislative ban that is being developed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2304	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 3 and points 11-13, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a plan to study and remove installations that ensure predictability, contribute to research and development, improve coordination between authorities, operators and suppliers that can contribute to a more optimal cost level for operators and society.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the rights-based support scheme for an additional measure in households to housing and housing companies.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a minimum of one full-scale CO2 management facility by 2020 – with programmes and instruments to strengthen the investment and the ability to realise several such facilities by 2025.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a separate case to the Stortinget with measures to improve the air quality of cities during the spring 2016 season.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the national NO2 targets and particulate matter as recommended by the trades unions.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government asks the government to set aside 5 million. kronor from Chapter 1400, entry 76 to the Norwegian contribution in connection with the preparation of the IPCC's 6th Main Report.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2353	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget to submit proposals for a long-term dividend policy for Statkraft SF that will increase the company’s capital availability to enable international renewable energy projects and marine wind projects to be realised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e2369	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government in its letter of assignment to Enova to require that the power requirement be increased to 120 kw, while ensuring that the electricity grid in connection with the expansion of charging stations has sufficient capacity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e3421	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e5513	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e5958	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e5986	During the debate, Mr Slagsvold Vedum put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Central Statistical Agency continues its activities in Kongsvinger so that an important environment of competence in this city is not gradually centralised into Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e6968	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e8276	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e8360	During the debate, Mr Slagsvold Vedum put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: The State budget for 2015 is amended as follows: 164Peace, reconciliation and democracy70Peace, reconciliation and democracy measures, can be transferred, increased by 21 500 000 from SEK 524 600 000 to kr 546 100 000440Police Directorate of Police and Red Cross1Operating expenditure, increased by 20 000 000 from kr 13 770 905 000 to kr 13 790 905 000490Foreign Directorate60Forest Office Grants to host municipalities for asylum reception, increased by 100 000 000 from kr 372 204 000 to kr 472 204 000 from county municipalities64Forest grant, increased by 100 000 000 from kr 627 000 000 to kr 727 000 000 0001820Norway watercourse and energy directorate22Floom and emergency aid, increased by 50 000 from kr 336 404 000 to kr 386 404 000 from State pension fund abroad50Transfer from the Fund, increased by DKK 1286 000 from DKK 1724 000 from DKK 1724 000 from DKK
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10351	Referral 111 is proposed to be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative, Audun Lysbakken, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10356	I would like to propose that this proposal be sent to the Committee in the usual way. I mean, what the majority here add up to is an unheard-of procedure. The parties that are not part of the agreement have not even been informed in advance that this was the way one would have intended to deal with the matter. I would warn the majority against using majority power this way. I find it quite outrageous that one goes forward like this and treats a settlement between six of the eight parties of the Storting as if it means that all proceedings in this house are decided, and everything else is superfluous. This is about the majority's view and respect for minority rights. In another situation, the majority constellations may be different, and I want to warn the parties that are part of the majority, against now creating a precedent that allows other majority members to do the same in several matters in the future. It'll be very unfortunate. It costs Storting little to let this matter go to committee in the usual way. That said, this is not about the content of the agreement. SV will support almost all the proposals that have been made. But this is a fundamentally important question. Minority parties also have to write their comments and promote their proposals in the usual way. That is why I propose that it be sent to the committee. This has also been clarified with the other party outside the agreement, the Green Party, and we ask that the majority take into account that there are also parties that have not been part of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10367	The representative of Trond Helleland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10370	It is good that the representative Lysbakken took the floor, because then I was given the opportunity to correct a manifest error from earlier today. I then forgot to mention that Harald T. Nesvik was also one of the proposers, so that all parties, except SV and the Green Party, are involved in this agreement. There have been negotiations for weeks. All parties, including the Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party, were invited from the start, when we started with tightening proposals. Then we agreed to move on with integration and the community situation. This was carefully negotiated between 161 out of 169 representatives at Stortinget. Had it been a scarce majority, I could understand the objections of the Light Tray. Here is a broad setting that all parties are behind except SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens – which gets all Christmas and far into the New Year to study this. But we insist that this should be dealt with in Stortinget the first day after the holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10377	The representative, Audun Lysbakken, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10380	What Trond Helleland says is that a majority in this room can have the processes you want, shut the others out and then don't care what the minority thinks about it. I think it's a very unprincipal way of approaching this. If the principle now is that this is okay if the majority is large, then I think the majority should think carefully about what kind of principle it is they're introducing. And then you can factor out how large the majority is before it's possible to set the minority aside. This is a very unfortunate way of going forward. I have to say that I think it's unheard of, and it's extra special that the majority even does it without informing the minority in advance. So we stand by our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10387	Several have not asked for the word. There are then two proposals. It is the presidency's proposal that referendum case 111 be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, and it is the proposal of the representative of the Audun Lysbakken, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, that referendum case 111, document 8:37 S for 2015-2016, be sent to committee. We're going to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10402	Referral number 111 will then be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Paragraph 39 of the Rules of Procedure. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10466	As this is the last big meeting in 2015, the President will be allowed to take the opportunity to thank you for the efforts you have made, all of you, this autumn. It's been an eventful harvest in many ways, and I think we've done well. I would like to wish all the representatives, the members of the government, all the employees here in the house and the press – and everyone else who has had their work related to our work – a really happy Christmas. Then we charge the batteries and come back strongly in 2016, which will probably also be an important political year. Merry Christmas, everybody!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10473	Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-18.ana.ud1145e10478	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
