ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e111	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus counties: Thore Vestby, Are Health and Rannveig Fan AndresenFor Hordaland counties: Eigil KnutsenFor Nordland counties: Veronika PedersenFor Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles, Une Aina Bastholm, Guri Melby and Ann Kathrine Skryskhammer Notices of withdrawal of the granted permit granted to the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and of amendment of the granted permit granted to the representative Sylvi Graham until 10 December have been received from the Højre Storingsgruppe. These messages are taken into account. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative of Rigmor Andersen Eide from 7 December until further notice. From the first alternate of the Møre and Romesdal counties, Steinar Reiten, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide's leave of absence, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the More and Romesdal counties, Simon Molvær Grimstad, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e179	Simon Molvær Grimstad is present and will take the seat. Councillor Bent Höie transferred 2 kgl. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e186	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e202	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e209	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, and that it was the will of all to contribute to the rapid handling of the matter, so that amendments can take effect from 1 January 2016. In the matter, most of the parties agree on most, but there have been some objections, perhaps especially to the process before the matter came to Stortinget. There are some who believe that the Stortinget has not been presented with a real knowledge base. We don't think this is right. It has been notified several times by the Council of State, among others. in January 2014, the hospital number and the revised state budget for 2015. In addition, after what I have found out, it has been a good process with regard to the employees. I also expect that the different parties will explain their views. The right-hand Party Government wants to simplify and improve central health management. Of course, it is because we want the most money spent on health care to go to patient care and to improve the services of our citizens, not to administration and bureaucracy. This is why the government is proposing more measures to help achieve good results. There will be changes in the structure of the Health Directorate. The straw liver will be organized as a separate establishment in the Health Directorate. The straw supply will retain the administrative and supervisory tasks it currently has under law and regulation. The Ministry of Health and Welfare shall remain the Board of Appeal for decisions taken by the Straw Liver. Another important change is that the National Institute of Public Health changes the name of the Institute of Public Health and that this will expand its mission. Therefore, the National Knowledge Centre for Health will also be part of the Institute for Public Health. With regard to the national health complaint body, it is believed that bringing the complaint procedure together in a wider professional environment is likely to provide faster treatment and better provision to users. These are the four names of the Secretariat for Personal Damage, the Complaint Subject for Treatment abroad, the Preimplantation Diagnosis Study and the State Health Personnel Unit that are merged. It is also proposed that the new Board of Appeal should be empowered as the Board of Appeal in some cases currently dealt with by the Directorate of Health, the Health Economics - HELFO - and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The Office shall move out of Oslo and be located in Bergen. It will have offices in both Bergen and Oslo for a transitional period of three years. The construction of the office in Bergen will start during 2016 and it will be very important to ensure that employees are properly cared for in the process of conversion. It is important that patients who believe that they have suffered financial loss due to patient injury should be treated safely at the same time as the treatment period is fast. For the Right and the Advance Party, it is important to reduce the length of the procedure, so that people get a quick answer to their case. There is also a reason why the subject of the patient injury should be given greater freedom to organise its activities. A more flexible system will make it easier to adapt resource use to issues so that it can use more resources on the difficult issues and less on the simple issues. There has been a discussion about whether there should be three or five members in the group, but the government believes that three members will be able to ensure the legal certainty of the applicants in most patient cases. In addition, a more effective form of treatment will benefit the claimants by reducing the time taken to deal with them. One of the things that has been somewhat disagreed about is where to set the lower limit on which claims are to be dealt with by the denominator. The amount of NOK 5000 has not been adjusted since the scheme entered into force in 1998. The Right Party and the Advance Party therefore support the government's proposal that the amount may be increased to NOK 10 000, but in order to reassure the opposition, it is possible to assume that it is only about EUR 10 000. 5 pst. of the cases relating to the amount less than NOK 10 000. Finally, I would also like to make it clear that even if the limit increases, the individual will still be able to address claims directly to the person who has caused an injury. I am also sure that the Minister will follow developments for a period after the changes have entered into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e226	The working party is particularly positive that the government is now taking action to reduce health bureaucracy. It is a little special to note, especially when the Progress Party has entered the government, that we have seen that the health bureaucracy has unfortunately Estonianed out. So we are very positive about this – not least that we now co-locate so many parts of the profession. At the same time, we are concerned that this should be at the expense of professional development. And we've got a lot of input from different organs that are afraid and worried about the independence that they've had up to now, and that they won't be able to sustain it anymore. We're going to follow closely in the different environments, because health means so much, there's such a rapid development in this area that we have to get good premises in view of the choices that we're sitting in this room are going to make. We also welcome the coordination of complaints bodies. I have to say that there has been a very good development in many areas, not least with the use of ICT in order to streamline the handling of complaints. At the same time, perhaps the most important thing about complaints is that those who complain experience independence around the institute itself, and that geographically remoteness also means something about the legitimacy of a complaint institute. We are positive about moving the complaint body out of Oslo, but also about using the whole country to build up skills in this area. But then the Workers' Party has been critical, which was also the case rapporteur, to the process itself. We believe that this is such a good case that we had tolerated an openness here in the main hall on how quality should be ensured further in professional development, but also in terms of efficiency gains and how we should bring the benefits of the coordination that is taking place. At least I now have experience from my previous political career that often we adopt things that are going to have a positive effect on resource use, and then it turns out that we are not able to pick up the prize next time. The same applies to costs – the costs involved – and we believe that this will also be better for all parties involved. Because we have respect for those who are employed in these places today – losing the job or being exposed to change means a lot to everyone. We expect that there will be good processes for the employees with the reorganisation to be carried out now, focusing on those who may have to be geographically prepared to move, but not least on maintaining professional quality. We have learned, at least I who come from Bergen, that getting the Competition Authority added to Bergen has had a positive impact on developments in this area, including: by lifting competition law as a much stronger profession within the university than it was in the past. So my experience is at least that there have been very positive effects of it. It may not look like that from Oslo, but if it raises a perspective, at least I'm not worried about building environments of competence even outside Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e233	With this case, the government will facilitate the reorganization of the central health management with a view to starting on 1 January 2016. The consequences of this reorganisation have been well explained by the case rapporteur, Mr Hoksrud. We are all concerned with reducing the growth of public bureaucracy. This is because we want the most resources in the field of health to go to patient treatment, to prevent health work in municipalities or to improve school health services. Instead of just talking about reducing bureaucracy, you actually have to be busy doing it and acting. That's why I might be a little surprised at the little bit of criticism that the changes might go a little too fast. It's a little like the Workers' Party says: too little too late or too much too early. But here you're right where you're going to be, that's to do this when it's well done. The Ministry of Health and Health has been asked to investigate these matters. The needs and opportunities for changes in health management have been assessed and two working groups have been set up in November a year ago to assess the organisation of the day, both to identify grey areas and to investigate the organisation and alternative forms of association of departments within the ministry. The government received three reports in February 2015 and the recommendations in these reports form the technical basis for the government’s decision. We support the government in its efforts to modernise, streamline and red tape the public sector. We believe that in the light of the work that has been done, there must be a basis for saying that the changes are well justified and evaluated on a professional basis. The government reduces the number of establishments in the central health administration from 15 to 11. We think it would be unnecessary to use time if the Storting were to be involved in this work beyond what we are today. Thus, in line with the desire to establish state jobs outside Oslo, the health complaint body should be located in Bergen. It involves strengthening the local provision of jobs for lawyers and further developing the legal environment in this city. All changes are demanding. Therefore, it is understandable that many employees react and experience the transition as a burden, and that there is a choice whether to keep the job and move or change jobs and stay in Oslo. However, no changes will be less demanding if decisions are postponed, and there are many laps to go before the decision is taken. It may also be experienced as a demanding ropepin if such a decision is not taken. It can challenge the working environment and make recruitment difficult. We then have in our right mind a government that takes responsibility for deciding, especially when the professional basis has to be said to be in place. As politicians here at Stortinget, we can’t just talk about wanting to red tape and streamline. We actually have to do that. With fewer departments, key professional environments are brought together, duplication of work is avoided, and resources are better used with high quality. Then we must not forget that such changes should be of primary importance to patients. It should provide better legal certainty for patients, and that is, after all, the healthcare of patients we are building.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e248	The government has decided that they will reorganise the central health administration and now proposes to amend the health legislation as a consequence. Over time, we have seen that health bureaucracies have grown up very well. The centre party therefore supports a thorough and critical review of the use of resources in health management. In this connection, of course, we support the location of state agencies outside the capital. But we're like the Workers' Party and SV critical of the way the government has moved forward. We cannot see that the case proposal we are receiving demonstrates that this way of reorganizing will actually lead to the efficiency of the public sector, and we record that there has been some serious dissatisfaction with the process that has been out there. We record that the government believes that the reorganisation should help to re-establish the role of the Health Directorate and the National Institute of Public Health in the management and knowledge production. We think it might be a reasonable idea. It is proposed that the National Knowledge Centre for Health Services should be integrated into the National Institute for Public Health and that the notification scheme under the specialist health service law § 3-3 should therefore be operated by the Health Directorate. The Health Directorate is also responsible for other notification systems, and I am very concerned that the special notification system according to § 3-3 of the Special Health Service Act maintains its integrity, and that it also maintains the trust that healthcare professionals have in this notification system, so that it cannot be used for sanctions against individuals or businesses in the future. The government will streamline and red tape by creating another directorate, the Directorate for eHealth. The central party agrees that national ICT work needs to be improved and strengthened, but believes that this can be done without creating an own directorate. diffi-report 2013:11 showed that Norway had a total of 60 directorates, which in 2013 had 14,000 annual works, an increase of 23 pst. in the last 10 years. The Health Directorate has grown from 445 annual works in 2006 to 747 annual works in 2013. Today, the Health Directorate has 1,422 annual works, but has also been assigned new tasks in the meantime. However, the 2016 state budget demonstrates that this growth in health bureaucracies continues to increase under the Right-front party government. For example, the Public Health Institute has grown up with 116 annual works, and the Health Directorate with about 150 annual works in two years. There are enough examples of new professional guidelines being developed, but services out there are not able to follow up due to insufficient resources. Then there will be a gap between policy makers and quality managers, and those who are set to follow them up in the services. An example is maternity care, for which national professional guidelines have recently been adopted – that is very good – but recognition is that there are not enough midwives in the municipalities to follow up the developed professional requirements in practice. The centre party is positive in coordinating the complaints bodies. We're in a note where we're somewhat concerned about raising the lower limit on payment under the Patient Damage Act from NOK 5000 to NOK 10000. There were some critical comments about this in the hearing statements. We ask the government to follow along. Finally, I will be very positive and support the Council of State that the Biotechnology Council did not participate in this reorganization process and that it still exists as an independent, independent council. That's what I think was very important to the council and for that very business and the areas they're going to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e265	The left side supports all of the changes proposed here. Its origins include: from a more principleal approach to the complaint body and the representative that we believe is right to have an arm's length distance from the decision-making authority, and is some of what the state should first go through to move out of Oslo when we talk about the relocation of state jobs. It's an enterprise that doesn't have to sit in the same street as the Stortinget, and on the contrary, it's good to be a little away from the daily political debate. Then we are aware of a certain concern that has been related to the process, in particular the subject of the patient injury as a professional point of view, can be said to be a young field of expertise specifically linked to the jessen, and where it is certainly possible to find practical solutions along the way so that we understand that it is not necessarily possible to replace that competence in Bergen from day one, and that one finds flexible solutions to maintain the particularly important environment of competence there. There has also been a debate about the professional role and freedom of SIRIUS, but we believe in sum that it is important to strengthen the overall professional environment in public health. Then we're very positive to the establishment of an e-health directorate. After all, the Biotechnology Council has been through both a change of name and a clarification of independence, and we are pleased that they now exist as a council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e274	The government will simplify and improve central health management. The aim is to make the most of Community resources and improve health care for the population. The changes will make us better equipped to meet the future challenges in the health and care sector. We want fewer floors and we want to avoid double work. We collect professional environments that work in the same or similar areas. Greater environments will make better use of professional competence and improve adaptability. I am happy to experience that there is a broad connection to this thinking in Stortinget. The new structure of activities cleans the roles of the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health in management and knowledge production respectively. The Health Directorate is strengthened as a management body and is given a more comprehensive responsibility for national health care. Therefore, the State's radiation protection system is integrated as an establishment in the Health Directorate. The straw liver shall continue to carry out the administrative and supervisory tasks it currently has but as an establishment in the Directorate of Health. The Ministry of Health and Welfare shall be the body responsible for the decision of the Radiation Protection Agency under the Radiation Protection Act and the Nuclear Energy Act, as at present. The Institute for Public Health is entrusted with an expanded societal mission and has a comprehensive responsibility for the production of knowledge and knowledge summaries in the field of health. Therefore, the National Knowledge Centre for Health is integrated into the Institute for Public Health. Management tasks and work on quality development in healthcare, which is currently at the Knowledge Centre, are transferred to the Health Directorate. The government wants to bring together complaints in the health sector in a wider professional environment. This we believe will contribute to a more effective process and increased user orientation. We suggest bringing together the secretariats for four of today’s topics and setting up the National Health Appeals Board. The collection of the Secretariats does not entail any changes to the tasks and independence of the Subjects. In addition to acting as Secretariat for the Subjects, the new Board of Appeal shall also be empowered to act as Board of Appeal in some cases currently dealt with by the Directorate of Health, the Administration of Health and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The Board of Appeal shall be located in Bergen, but will have offices in both Bergen and Oslo for a transitional period of three years. Construction of the office in Bergen starts during 2016. Particular attention shall be paid to the well-managing of employees in the conversion process. These organisational changes require some changes to the law, and that is what the Storing is dealing with today. The government also proposes some measures to improve the effectiveness of the patient injury regime. Patients who consider that they have suffered a financial loss due to a patient injury must be treated in a satisfactory manner and with a reasonable period of time. The government proposes that the patient injury subject be given greater freedom to organise its business. A more flexible system will make it easier to adapt resource use to issues, so that it uses more resources on the difficult issues and less on the simpler issues. For the government, it is essential to reduce the length of proceedings and to find the best balance between effective proceedings and adequate safeguards for the legal certainty of complainants. We believe that three members will be able to ensure the legal certainty of the applicants in a good way, in the vast majority of cases of patient injury. In addition, a more effective form of treatment will benefit the claimants by reducing the time taken to deal with them. The lower limit on the claims to be dealt with by Norwegian patients’ claims has not been changed since it was introduced temporarily in 1988. It's been 27 years. The government therefore considers it appropriate to increase the limit from NOK 5000 to NOK 10000. This will contribute to a certain efficiency and reduction of the processing time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e295	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e298	The Labour Party is very positive about the organisation of work, the efficiency and red tape of state activities, such as: is the case now, not least because the bureaucracy has grown as it has done under this government, among other things. as a result of privatisation and commercialisation, which creates a lot of bureaucracy, as you know. The Labour Party also very much agrees to establish activities outside the capital, such as: now in Bergen, to good environments of competence, which are also found in many other parts of the country. But we are critical of the process that has taken place, and we agree with the many who think this is not thoroughly and properly investigated. My question is, can the Council of State promise that the process will improve at the next crossroads, so that the Storting has a better basis for decision-making?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e307	There were a number of things in this line that are not right, for example. State bureaucracy has increased as a result of privatisation. That's not right. Nor has this been a bad process, on the contrary. This has been a process in which one has had a thorough job of implementing the business changes and one has also concluded conversion agreements with the civil servants’ organisations in the activities concerned. The floors have made it possible to involve and inform employees throughout the process, including: through representation of the trustees in the central coordination groups for the organisational changes. The feedback from the trustees is that they are largely positive with regard to the processes that have been implemented. With regard to the organisation of the central health administration, it is the responsibility of the government. It is therefore right that the government here makes decisions about how the administration should be organised, and it is not a matter that the Storing decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e315	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e331	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e338	A consensus committee today recommends the Stortinget to take a decision to regulate a whole new chapter of the Labour Environment Act on anti-competitive labour agreements. Getting better regulation of such agreements has been under assessment in the Ministry of Labour for many years. The government of Stoltenberg II sent on the listener several of the proposals, but it is the Solberg government that has now made the proposition to the Stortinget. It is the competition clauses that have been the main subject of our political discussion in the Committee. Such clauses are usually agreed in employment contracts, and they impose restrictions on employees when they change jobs. They prefer many variants, but most commonly, six to twelve months are banned with little or no compensation for taking a job in competing companies. The scope of such clauses is increasing. The employee page has made clear that the worker’s protection is too weak and that there is a need to tighten up and clarify the legislation. The Committee is engaged in balancing the concerns of workers, employers and society. Competition clauses are agreements which, by their very nature, impose obstacles on workers in relation to the free use of their labour. This applies both to the possibility for employees to accept job offers from other employers and to the possibility for them to be able to search themselves for new challenges and settings in their field of competence. For some workers, such agreements may therefore act as a ban on employment. It's unfortunate, not only for employees, but also from a socio-economic point of view. Mobility in the labour market is an important socio-economic concern, both in terms of competition, innovation and the creation of new jobs. In Norwegian working life, most people tend to turn to the work environment law in order to identify the framework within which businesses can regulate relationships between employers and employees. The Committee therefore supports the main features of the government's proposal and that the rules on non-compete clauses should now be regulated in the labour protection laws. We think it'll make the rules more accessible. At the same time, the Committee's position is that workers are now guaranteed certain minimum rights by the fact that the proposed rules cannot be waived to the detriment of employees and that they are to be interpreted in the light of the work environment law's purpose paragraph. The Committee further agrees that, in so far as employers have a particular need for protection against competition, non-compete clauses should only be valid. In addition, in order for more than one condition to be met, a non-compete clause to be valid: it must be entered into in writing, impose compensation on employees, not for more than one year, and employers must have given employees a written reason for whether and to what extent the clause is in force. The committee has worked very hard on this proposition to arrive at the result we are going to vote on today, and that is what the committee has to do, among other things. because the proposed position was not sufficiently based on statistics, facts and research. There are too few statistics or other material to provide a good overview of the number of people required by competitive agreements. It is unclear to what extent competition clauses are used, how long quarantine periods are used or what is normal compensation. Nor is it clear to what extent today's legislation creates conflicts, creates disputes. The Committee is therefore pleased that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has published a research and distribution agreement to identify the scope of such anti-competitive agreements in Norway. Such an analysis by the Ministry could help to clarify the extent to which non-compete clauses are used, the usual quarantine period, the question of compensation, and the extent to which legislation creates conflicts and disputes. Since the government made the proposal, the employer's side has responded to the proposals, especially the government's proposal for 100 pst. compensation of up to 18 G. The employer’s side claims that the scope of clauses is not as large as that of the ministry and that the government goes too far in tightening up employers’ ability to protect their competitive situation, especially with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises. The Committee agrees with the employer side that the balance between employer and employee has not been found sufficiently. For this reason, the Committee has had long, good, thorough negotiations to try to find a balance point that takes more account of these considerations. After long negotiations, the committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, agrees, and the setting is therefore almost co-consulted. With that, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and, at the same time, extend a great deal of thanks to the Committee Secretary and her colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e361	This is probably a good example of the government's modernisation of the Working Environment Act, which was previously ensured by a broad majority in the UK in this period. Today, there is practically unanimity in the Stortinget. I'm very pleased with that. What the government is proposing is to regulate the anti-competitive agreements in a separate chapter of the Working Environment Act, as the rapporteur says. It works better as a reference for employers and for employees. I would like to commend the government for promoting this matter – after really having been lying in some red-green drawers a little too long and collected dust. This was very timely. Is it a problem today that there is no competition clause in the labour market? Should they be legalised or – as today – tariff-fixed? How long should you be able to have the quarantine? Who's gonna pay for the quarantine? In what cases should they apply and what kind of clauses should apply? It is clarified by the Stortinget today. On the right, the use of clauses today has become a major problem in Norwegian working life and would – if we had not made the changes today – become an increasing problem. Today the provision is tariff-fixed, but now it is legalised. On the right, we support the government's proposal that quarantine should be granted for up to 12 months and that the employer should pay during the quarantine period. It's because we want to reduce the use of quarantine time, and neither should it be a public responsibility to pay for the quarantine in private businesses. The right considers that there is a need to limit the use and create a framework around the clauses. So let's say that 13 pst. their members have clauses in their contracts. This represents over 4,500 people. Econa says this applies to 20 pst. by their members and 2000 employees. 25 pst. of their members working in private business, have a non-compete nature as part of the contract of employment. NITO states that 16.4 pst. of their members, corresponding to 5,500, have this in their contracts of employment. 20 pst. states that they do not know if they have it. The proportion is highest among new employees. So this is an increasing trend and something that we're concerned about is going to be part of a standard contract. The Committee points out that such clauses do not currently have a cost for employers, only for employees, and can thus contribute to less innovation, less start-up and fewer new businesses. The establishment of a payroll obligation by quarantine, enshrined in the Working Environment Act, will contribute to companies becoming more critical of the use of quarantine provisions than at present. At the same time, we will decide that non-compete clauses shall be valid only in so far as the employer has a particular need for protection against competition when the clause becomes applicable. In addition, it is proposed that the following conditions must be fulfilled: of course, it must be in writing, give the employee a right to compensation, no longer than one year, and the employer must make a statement if a clause is to be used. Competition clauses are a point of business. That's why we have them, and that's why we legislate them. It is in the interest of enterprises to maintain business secrets, to ensure the need for key employees to have key information, but also to ensure that the key employee does not run away to another enterprise or start his own enterprise with the same type of key information. That is why, in the future, we will have legal regulation of the clauses. The employer may also cancel a non-compete clause while working. I'm pleased that the government pointed out the right direction. The size of the population has, through very good cooperation in the labour and social committee, found a framework that takes into account both the challenges of employers and the challenges of employees. The Committee has found a maximum limit of 12 G, where the government proposed 18 G. 12 G means an annual salary of NOK 1 080 000, but we agree to include in the law today that no one will get more than 70 pst. of previous remuneration if you have earned more than 8 G, which is about 720 000 kroner, while those who have earned less than 720 000 kroner will receive full compensation during the quarantine period. The right is concerned with maintaining competence and ensuring access for business to highly skilled labour. In our view, competition clauses have been too dominant and do not contribute to work, activity and conversion – which we need even more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e387	The Progress Party has as its starting point the best functioning of employment, pay and employment contracts if they are achieved by agreement between the employee and the employer in each enterprise. We believe that free markets are also for the benefit of both parties and that free markets are for the benefit of society. That is why perhaps the first idea that strikes a liberal like me is that the regulation of non-compete obligations is contrary to free markets, but it is not that simple. Over many years we have had a situation with a vague practice and workers who have not been able to use their labour force without getting this compensated properly. As the chairman of the committee also pointed out, this is a matter which should initially have been the country several years ago, because there have been more investigations and assessments, but only now, thanks to the action of Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson, do we finally finish this matter, in close cooperation with the committee, where there has been a good and thorough discussion. That is also why we have reached the compromise we are discussing here today. I would also like to thank some employee organisations, which have been very constructive in dealing with this matter, and they also have a large part of the credit that we have got a broad deal today. In the course of this process, however, I have stunned the NHO and especially the LO, who have wanted further postponements in a matter that has been over-mature for treatment. Luckily, however, the Committee has managed to gather and contribute to the achievement of clear rules, and not least that employees who receive a non-compete clause are now receiving fair and proper compensation, which should initially be lacking. We believe that contracts require both parties to enter into them voluntarily, without one party being in a distorted relationship with the other, as is the case with employment contracts. One of the main premises of employment contracts is that they should contain only limitations, obligations, rights and those relevant to employment. A question then arises as to which anti-competitive clauses are relevant to employment. There will be a question of balancing the different interests against each other — both the needs of employers and employees — in order to obtain the best possible balance for the individual enterprise, the individual employee and society at large. In the course of the discussion of this matter, I have come to two important conclusions: the first is that there is no outcome of the treatment that will please everyone who has spoken. The second is that the proposal for a decision that is on the table today is the most balanced decision we can make, taking into account the necessary considerations. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Committee – not least the rapporteur, Holen Bjørdal – for a good job. In addition, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Arve Kambe, who has also contributed in a very constructive and good way, which has led the Committee today to gather on a good outcome, which should have been in place many years ago, but the most important thing is that today we have a broad majority behind this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e402	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur, Holen Bjørdal, for a good job in a demanding case. The matter is particularly inconspicuous and particularly demanding, so the praise that the rapporteur has received is correct. Unlike the Liberal representative Wiborg, I am a value conservative, and it is quite natural that a value conservative comes to the realization that competition is a state product. If the State does not intervene and regulate the market, one over time will not be competitive. It will obviously evolve towards monopolies, and it will evolve towards unfair competition. So for the Central Party it's quite natural to regulate the market, and that's what we're talking about here: the market that's related to human relations with the world of work. The centre party is committed to finding the right balance point in the balance between the consideration of the activities of the former employer on the one hand and the consideration of the employee when a non-compete clause is applied to him on the other. The centre party will indicate that, if the competitive clauses become too long, this could weaken the worker’s ability to return to similar work. We are committed to maintaining competence and ensuring business availability for highly skilled labour. Then we have to go into the dilemmas: the centre party has tried in this case to think in principle, and we have not least had reference to what is the quarantine law for politicians, officials and officials, and we see no difference in the matter but that, in principle, there should be a great deal of convergence in these questions. We would like to stress that it should be equal to the maximum length of the employee clauses and the maximum quarantine period for persons who are subject to quarantine under the law on information obligations, quarantine and prohibition of action by politicians, officials and officials, i.e. the Quarantine Act. There's a maximum length of six months, and we see it as natural to use it in this context as well. There has been a discussion of length in connection with the Quarantine Act. Some have wanted a longer period. The center party has been among them, but it's a fact that it's six months, and then we basically stand very strongly on that it should also apply here. During the period for which a non-compete clause is applied, the employee should receive compensation equal to compensation earned in the 12 months preceding the date of dismissal and dismissal. We go further to ensure that people who are charged quarantine time under the quarantine law get compensation in quarantine time equivalent to the salary they had on departure, with the addition of holiday money, so that we keep a clear parallel in what we add up to. We're going to go further in order that the maximum limit should be limited to 14 G. This will mean the salary that members of the government had on 1 May 2015, i.e. approx. 1.2 million. kr. So we're proposing 100 pst. of that amount, and if those subject to such a quarantine provision make money during the quarantine period, the entire income shall be deducted. It's important that we have a similarity here between what's in the private sector, and what the Stortingejjäll adopts for government members, who are in a similar situation. There are no better reasons for having a longer period in the private sector than there are for government members who want to go into business after the government period, which means that one comes into such loyalties as we are here to regulate. Finally, I would like to include the two proposals of the Central Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e428	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e431	As the previous speakers have pointed out, this is a case with a certain history, including for the signatories. On 26 March this year, I sent a question to the Minister of Labour about where this case of non-competition will be. On March 27, the government presented a case to the Stortinget. So I don't think we've seen from any government. My starting point, similar to the starting point of the representative Wiborg, is that freedom of contract is what should apply, and initially with a commitment that, through the various interests that exist, there will be a balance between employees and employers through free competition. Nevertheless, when it comes to some questions, we clearly see, in different labour markets, different countries, that workers may have problems seeing what is in their long-term interest. There is no doubt that in the Norwegian labour market we have seen that non-compete clauses, which may not always be so easy to perceive by contract signing, can seriously restrict the mobility of labour in the labour market. For an employer this would often be fun to have, but for other employers, who need labour, this restriction on labour mobility will be a problem – not just for the individual worker, but for the social economy. For this reason, the Left believes that at least having some regulation of the use of non-compete clauses in the labour law makes sense. It's been a lot of years. In 2010, the red-green government sent out a case on non-compete hearings. So there wasn't so much more. But at last this year, a case was submitted by the government of Solberg, and the government and the Minister of Labour are to have a great deal of credit for finally coming up with a case. In the committee, we have noticed, through open hearings and requests, that there has been some resistance among the social partners on both sides of the table, with slightly different foundations. That may also be the reason why it has taken so long before something has happened. But sometimes it's actually so that the legislative assembly in the country should happen. Not all questions are suitable for determining the tariffs. There are some interests that are not always taken care of by the parties, and I think this is an example of one of those that have not been served. Then it is good that the National Assembly and the elected representatives of the people can take responsibility for ensuring stronger worker protection. Now we guarantee it protection, both when it comes to maximum quarantine limits and not least the right to compensation. It will be important for those in debt, but I think I can see that the Committee and the government want to do so is to get rid of all the unnecessary use of non-compete clauses. In some cases it might be quite legitimate to take advantage of it, and then a few compensation should be. However, it should not be such that employers benefit from non-competition clauses automatically for a range of job categories. It's the obvious signal the committee receives when it comes to this, from many of those who organize the workers in the most deferred industries, and that's what we're trying to take a given today, in a setting that fortunately is closest to being consensual. It will be interesting to follow developments in the labour market in the future. It should be interesting to follow the use of non-compete clauses. It is to hope that he goes down and is limited to the cases where necessary, from the point of view of the employer, and then we will at least have the assurance that the employee in such a case is sure of compensation, and that there is a limit on how long a person can have the quarantine.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e448	What others have been involved in is that this case has been well-established and well-lit – for a long, long time. The first investigation was carried out at the hearing in 2008, the last in 2010. In the course of these consultations, the parties have also made many observations and views. Then it is true, as the rapporteur pointed out, that, by today's date, we lack some statistics on how customer clauses, recruitment clauses and, in particular, non-competition clauses are practised, how large this is, and in which sectors it is widespread. At the same time, we have received good information that some employee organisations have conducted their own studies, suggesting that this is part of the standard contracts in some industries. That's why it's been important for me to do this knowledge acquisition that the ministry is doing, as it was also pointed out, to get us better and more knowledge about this. I am very pleased that we now have a regulation that clarifies and clarifies when it comes to using competitive clauses, customer or recruitment clauses – that we get it under a clear framework. What has been interesting over these years is that both the employee and the employer sides have seen clear needs to clarify the framework, to clarify the legislation, and that something should happen. Then we have had a situation where nothing has happened, and there have also been different interests on both sides, which it is also pointed out here, considering what should have been done. That is why I think the Committee should have all the honour and praise for the way it has dealt with this matter. You have come up with a good and balanced clarification, which I also record you are satisfied with in the open room. It is believed that a modern and good code has been established. Then the government is very concerned that we should have mobility in the labour market, that we should also be allowed to keep company secrets and business secrets, while ensuring that people do not stay outside the labour market for too long without being compensated for the period of quarantine. Both I and the government are living well with the changes that Storting will make here today. Even if we made a proposal where we thought that the individual worker should have 100 pst. Up to 18 G, I think the committee has come up with a good way of doing this and a good balancing by giving 100 pst. pay up to 8 G, and 70 pst. between 8 and 12 G. All in all, I would like to thank the Committee for coming up with a balanced, good and modern proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e468	My question concerns the length of the period. There has been a long discussion about the length of the quarantine law, which is fixed at a maximum of six months. Here the majority advocates a one-year non-competition clause. Can the Council of State explain the situations in which individuals in the private sector may be more sensitive to new employers than a Council of State may be in relation to new employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e474	I think some people who work in the field of technology development, including new technological solutions, will have far more detailed and in-depth competence than the undersigned do. In a global market where you compete to have both the domain and the protection around the technology while researching it, try it out, I think it might make sense that with the balance that the Stortinge comes up here, you have up to one year with such a provision. I also believe that what is happening in this sector — technology — can be less comparable in some areas than, for example, in others. in the field of policy. But I understand the question from Lundteigen well, and it is a relevant and good question that is raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e481	I notice the sober answers of the Council of State. There was probably more between the lines where it's more than usual, because there's probably few who have more insight and knowledge of larger, strategic questions than a government council, so I thank you for the answer to that point. My next question concerns the curtailment of income in the same period. For example, government councils have a 100 pst curtailment, while this is added up to a 50 pst curtailment. What is the reason why one can have such a system - shouldn't that abbreviation be equal in that area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e488	You could always say that, but I'm going to record that the majority has come to the conclusion that it makes sense with such a curtailment. We were also involved in that when we made the proposition. It may also be that for a period of time when you go out and take other types of jobs, in industries with a completely different salary level, it may make sense with a curtailment of 50 pst. This is a case that has been going on for a long time, with long investigations, and where there have been different interests from both employers and employees, depending on the sector in which they are affected. I believe that this bill is in a good way trying to balance all these considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e495	In the government's proposal, there was a ceiling on the compensation of 18 G. So now the majority parties propose a ceiling of 16 G. The salary of a Council of State, as I mentioned, is 14 G today. There are so many things in this case that you should look at the consequences of what we're doing now, versus what are the rules of the quarantine law. Will the State Council take the initiative to review the Quarantine Act as well in order to ensure more uniform treatment of all those affected by such quarantine provisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e500	I think it makes sense to look at it after we've picked up the skills and the knowledge that we're out to get in. As I also said in my post, we lack a lot of statistics about which industries this is used in, to what extent it is used, and what is natural in standard contracts. We hear that some employee organisations that have themselves carried out surveys say that this is in the standard contracts of some industries. When we get more knowledge of that and also look at the different levels of pay, I don't exclude that it might be reasonable to come back and look at the question that Lundtägen is travelling here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e505	I record that the representative Wiborg uses his post to boast of the Council of State's power of action, and that's fine. However, there is a lot of evidence that something has gone a little fast in the swings here when you see how critical the government has got from the NHO and the employers' side and the relatively strong moderation of the proposal here in Stortinget. My question then is: Does the Council of State still believe that the government's original proposal was the best? Or does he now see, perhaps in the name of the postwar clock, that he should take a round with the social partners before he suggested such a high compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e510	We've done a lot of laps with the social partners. This matter was sent out from the Red-Green Government at the first hearing in 2008, the next in 2010, with many input from meetings – formal but also informal – with the social partners, many different interest groups, on how to deal with it. I do not know if this case would have been better if you had followed the representative's advice and left it in the drawer for even longer time. There was more representative Rotevatn who showed the power of action and sent questions, it was probably 26 March, and the proposition was presented the following day. That's absolutely right; we're a powerful government. I believe that the proposal we made was the best proposal, which balanced the various input that had come in, based on the investigation that this case has been made over the years. I am pleased that the Stortinget and such a broad majority in the Stortinget have managed to make some changes. I would like to see that the compensation had been higher, but one has managed to balance in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e517	Thanks for the answer. It is like more people, and also the Council of State, have been involved, a somewhat demanding matter to be treated as a legislator. The decision-making basis for the Storting is a little weak in this case, because we lack statistics, and we lack research. Now the ministry has to do a job trying to get that kind of statistics. We expect in Stortinget that these legal changes will be properly and continuously evaluated. But there are still some unanswered questions, especially when it concerns standard contracts. Do we know whether this will lead to smaller standard contracts? Some people even think that adding this to the Work Environment Act will make it more visible and accessible and perhaps even increase the use of non-compete clauses. So here's some unanswered questions. What I'm asking is: will the Council of State come back to the Storting after a while, when we have an evaluation ready, and consider proposing new and stronger measures to overcome non-compete clauses where this is not necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e522	I find it interesting to hear the rhetoric and the arguments of the representative Bjørdal, who says that this has been a demanding matter for the legislator. I respect that, and I understand that. But that you lack a lot of knowledge? This matter is well settled by his own government. Is it true that they have done such a bad investigation that they have not had a good enough basis for decision? Because we have relied on the investigation done by the previous government. The matter has been well investigated, and there have been many, many recordings. We are now taking initiatives, unlike the previous government, to gain even better knowledge about this. And as I also said to the representative Lundtigen: should there be a need to look at some of these legal provisions, I do not exclude coming back when you have collected that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e527	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e541	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e548	In this case, the proposers propose that the Storting should ask the government to change the payroll law during the leave to reduce the employer’s period from 10 to 5 days, and partial leave is to be reduced to 40 pst. to provide a basis for daily allowances. It is also proposed to amend the legislation on permitting in order to increase the time from 30 to 52 weeks. The total proceeds on this is about 250 million. kr. The weak development in oil prices and the fall in international petroleum-oriented industries have affected the labour market in the last year. Employment has decreased in these industries, and this has contributed to subdued growth. The average unemployment rate in the second quarter of this year is 4.3 p.m. and a relatively moderate increase is expected in 2016. At the end of August more than 84 000 people were available. This year, unemployment has increased for almost all occupational groups, but there is a particularly strong increase for engineering and ICT, consultants and industrial work. Number of longterm unemployed, i.e. unemployed people who have been unemployed for more than 26 weeks have increased from about 25 000 to 32000 in one year, an increase of 7 000 people. It's relatively good numbers when the other numbers are bad. The statistics from NAV Rogaland and NAV Vest-Agder show that more than half of the unemployed are on average unemployed for three months. Then they're even out to work. Mostly, the numbers are also positive for those who become unemployed. The labour market has absorbed most. I was at NAV Vest-Agder and NAV Kristiansand on Friday, one of the states that reported increased unemployment. In fact, there was a fall in unemployment in West Agder in November. The right is concerned that people who are unemployed should find work quickly so that they can experience as little as possible long periods of unemployment. Therefore, Nav's placement and recruitment work is incredibly important. Labour market measures are an important instrument and the Right is therefore pleased that the government in the budget is meeting the increasing unemployment rate of precarious multi-functional labour market, 74 000 in 2016, where 16 000 of them are too completely unemployed. The scope of the permits varies greatly. By 2015, we have seen an increase again, and by the first six months, the number of projected increases by 28 pst. compared to the first six months of last year. At the end of August, it was 82 pst. more prominent than at the same time last year. Of course, the increase must be seen in the context of the changes proposed by the government parties together with the social partners for the current year, which began on 1 July. Two thirds of the perimeter is roughly 100 pst. Permitted, one third partially permitted. The right is satisfied that, through good dialogue with the social partners, the government has strengthened the ‘In-company Training’ action, which is now to be used more fully to strengthen the skills of employees in enterprises facing serious migration challenges and which must make a significant change in the production of enterprises. With effect from 1 October of this year, admission was granted to continuing training with daily allowances to cover also those on leave. There is also a strengthening of the permitting regime. National Councils have received some action from Nav to combat the increase in unemployment. One of Nav's actions is that they warn the government against further amending the law on the permit because Nav says it's enough. If you want a conversion, it's important to use it flexibly. Those on leave are not paid more or less if they are fully unemployed or are fully entitled to leave. For some of the businesses that leave employees, the downturn may prove to be more of a lasting nature, and would like the employees to be terminated at the end of the period of leave. In such situations, the permitting mechanism will actually lead to a worsening of the burden on individual workers. The permit mechanism may then prevent or delay the necessary structural changes by postponement of the termination and the late start of the process of applying for other jobs. There is one point left: Employees who are on leave or who become unemployed have 104 weeks to receive a daily allowance either as a permit or as an unemployed person. If you are licensed, the daily allowance period of 104 weeks will not be postponed. It's actually included in the context. Therefore, in my view, in order to provide for a regulatory framework for permitting contributing to work, activity and migration, the present system is a good point of balance that solves the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e571	The background to the proposal for document 8 now under consideration is the labour market situation. The proposal was presented at the beginning of October and since then unemployment has only increased. We now meet Christmas with 127,000 unemployed – some of the worst that can hit a society. We have the highest rate of unemployment in over 20 years. We are in a situation where Germany now has less leave than us, and where Sweden is able to drive the unemployment figures downwards through targeted investment. Then it is absolutely right that no one can blame the oil price drop – just as no one in Norway was responsible for the financial crisis, which hit us in 2008 and 2009. The question is how to meet this challenge and what action to take. In this context, I would say that the government has been incredibly passive. Repeatedly, both this state council and other state councils have said that we should follow the situation closely. Wait and see, has been the answer from the government. During the previous crisis a lot of advice was carried out around the country. The previous government listened to the social partners, to the sectors that were most affected, and to all parties at the Storting in meetings, and put in force strong measures to meet the increasing unemployment. The main labour market measure is to have a good industrial policy and an active industrial policy. Therefore, our proposals and the proposals of other opposition parties in the Storting are also marked by concrete measures to first increase the activity of the industries that are now first hit in the cluster around the oil-based business. In addition, however, labour market policy must build up under the wishes of enterprises to contribute to migration and to transition under security. In particular, since this government took over, for the first time in history, it is a government that cuts the number of labour market measures, at the same time alerting them to increased unemployment and cutting the legislation on leave while at the same time alerting them to increased unemployment. Now the law of permitation is back to what it was when the leave was low. When we now propose that there should be an opportunity to permit for 52 weeks, that the employer's pay obligation should be reduced to five days, and that the leave should be reduced to 40 pst. to provide a basis for day-to-day pay, after it has been requested by the industry most affected by unemployment: Norwegian Industry, Joint Confederation. Those who feel this directly on the body say, "Please give us a handshake." We can help to reduce the number of unemployed people in this country. We can help make adjustments. But the government parties will not be in it. Sometimes when we address this question, it points to the dangerous locking effect. We are more afraid of the exclusion effect from the labour market. Yes, the government itself says in its proposition on page 149 that 80 pst. by those who are licensed, return to work for the company from which they are licensed. 9 pst. move to another enterprise with the competence they have. And 11 pst. leaving the enterprise without going to another job — many of them to education, e.g., and a very small share of health-related benefits. So the locking effect is demanded by the government itself in the government's own document. We can help business in line with what industry has asked for, by saying yes to the proposals contained in Document 8 that we are discussing today. Some of those who attend Christmas with free time could avoid being available. Instead, the government's answer is that they cut off the benefits of the unemployed. We want to put in the effort to help in a difficult situation. I will deal with the proposals that we are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e590	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e593	The Progress Party wants to launch efforts and willingness to work. Lower taxes and taxes, together with a more flexible working life, are the best means of achieving an efficient and well-functioning labour market. We want an effective and social safety net for those who do not have the opportunity to live on their own income, but we always have to have a system that ensures that working rather than receiving public benefits will always pay off. I believe that this is a good starting point for considering any changes in the rules of the permit. The consideration of the individual worker, but also of the activity and not least of what serves the economy in the best possible way, should and should be the basis for any changes. I will not go into what I think is the real reason why the Labour Party has promoted this proposal here today, but I can suggest that it has little to do with the situation on the labour market. There is much closer to populist overbidden policy, which we also received in the previous post from the representative Dag Terje Andersen. We must remember that the costs of leave are shared between the employer, the employee and the state. First, the employer has an obligation to pay, and after that, the people’s pension pays the day-to-day allowance. But we must also bear in mind the wider economic consequences. The positive consequences of the legislation on permitting are well known and the whole basis for which we have it at all, namely that for some cyclical activities, permitations will be the only means of ensuring long-term labour force and business stability. There will also be one of several strands in the social security network for the worker and it will ensure a more flexible labour market. At the same time, we have to look at the hidden costs, because there are hidden costs. Although in many cases they are not big enough to offset the positive effects, we always have to take them into account as well. For generous lay-off rules, the work force is locked in. This will counteract conversion, as the percented are usually low-active jobseekers. We are talking about employees who could use their workforce, their knowledge in other companies, but they are locked in. We can say it in another way: those who are being let out can think of sitting and waiting for the company to get a new contract, instead of trying to find a new job. In this way we pass on people, which we all know is not good. In other words, too good permitting rules are a recipe to keep people out of work, will make them less attractive in new jobs, and will increase the cost to all parties. I am concerned that people who become unemployed should quickly find work, so that as little as possible experience long periods as permities. The overall impression when the social partners, all trade unions, express themselves is that there is no strong need for even more changes in the legislation on permitting. As you know, the legislation is constantly adjusted as necessary, as the government and Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson have shown earlier. The situation is being followed to ensure that we have a regulatory framework and other legislation that is well adapted to the situation in which we live. That is also why the government made changes to the law on permitting not long ago to bring it into line with the situation we are in at all times. The labour market and the law of permitment are too important to pursue a policy of oversupply, which does not benefit society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e610	The development of the labour market is the most important issue we face. I would say on behalf of the Center Party that we are now working systematically for a more well-organized working life. We need stronger trade unions. We need a greater share of fixed-term employment, and we need not least to get rid of the system that the recruitment agencies have, with fixed-term employment without pay between jobs – three important issues that one needs to work on to get a more well-organised working life. As the representative Dag Terje Andersen had in mind, it's the most central business policy, and that's what we're now laying the foundation for what's going to be industrial policy for a few years to come. We continue to see that the government is clinging to business neutrality – a theory, a dogma that, based on international and historical experience, we also know in this country that it does not work. We need to have an industrial policy developed to fit the situation of business, because business is in different situations at different times and in different relationships with natural resources, capital and labour internationally. Furthermore, we are exposed to an offer shock in the workplace. There is no regulation of labour immigration, and thus it becomes an increasingly difficult task to ensure a safe working life in Norway when people have free access to the Norwegian labour market from areas where there is an incredibly distressed, incredibly low pay and working conditions and a high level of unemployment. There is therefore a need for better dialogue with the social partners, and a need to assess the ongoing situation of what is at issue today, namely the legislation on permitting. There is a very demanding development in the labour market, and the Central Party has a great deal of understanding of the Labour Party's proposals. We have a great deal of understanding to look at an improvement in the law on permitting, for example. reducing the period paid by the employer to 40 p.m., reducing the percentage on which daily allowances are based and extending the employer’s exemption from the pay obligation from 36 to 52 weeks. But when we don't go into it, it's simply based on an assessment of the situation. In our opinion, very many of those who are being outsourced today are related to oil business – an oil sector that is not in temporary change, but one where, to a large extent, at the discretion of most, and not least when taking into account climate considerations, a continuous lower activity, a lower investment. In this context, we have not given priority to improving the rules of permeability in the current situation. We are therefore very pleased with what the government is doing to further develop the business-internal training system, and I would ask the government to look carefully at whether one cannot go any further in that system, in order to convert the companies internally through in-house training to enter new markets, which will not least be beneficial in terms of climate, is a clear way to go. As I said, we have not found the basis for prioritizing it. We have given priority to other parts of the world of work in our budget. We have prioritised those parts of our working life where it's really hard to find work for the weak groups, whether they're those who are struggling with alcohol or psychiatry or otherwise they're the weakest in the world of work. Our proposal for a government budget is well over 1 billion. kr. There are no parties that prioritise this stronger than us, and we prioritise wage subsidies, VTA, qualification programs, which means that one could have more than ten hundred people in employment if one had followed that priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e623	There is no doubt that the large number of redundancies we see in particular in some industries is serious for those in debt, and there is always news that gives cause for concern. For example, today there was a news about a large company that cancels an additional 900 employees – they have already given up many of them. So it's clear that it makes a wish to act. So to another news I saw today, which is really a joy, about a company in the electro industry in my hometown, which after many years – and they have had a hard time getting hold of engineers – finally gets a bunch of applications when they release vacancies. They are growing rapidly and expanding within new markets. The reason for this is that all the wise heads we've been talking about, and we've been tied up in an industry for so many years, now we're looking for a job. This is in a state where the number of free options actually goes up. We also see in other parts of the country – Northern Norway, the Inland – that the labour market situation is deteriorating, not worsening. Then the representative says Dag Terje Andersen that the reason we adopted the proposal from the Labour Party is that we are now giving business what they have asked for. I have not heard any major employers’ associations calling for this measure. The N.H.O. hasn't requested it. Work strongly warns against the fact that, in hearing about the state budget, precisely for the reasons I exemplified in my introduction, the labour force is now being released into other sectors where there is a need for it. When the Labour Party came up with its proposal, I saw that even Stavanger Aftenblad – in a state where unemployment has risen by 80 pst. in the last year – says this is the wrong way to go. So I'm not in doubt that someone wants this, but I still don't hear any unisonous calls from the workplace that this is the right way to go. Then, of course, permitting legislation is something one should have a relatively flexible and not a principled attitude to, in the sense that in some periods there may be a need to expand it, as the majority in Stortinget did in ours. But there's a difference in what analysis is about the situation in the economy. If the analysis is that what we are now seeing, the cause of low oil prices, is a temporary decrease, and that soon we are going to regroup in the same businesses in the same industry, yes, having the most generous possible permitting legislation is a completely logical conclusion. But if one, as I see it most analysts say, is a witness to a more permanent conversion, it's a wrong conclusion. What is needed is not to enumerate the position as it is, but to make sure that it is possible to start a conversion. Then we also thought that the harsh criticism of the Labour Party about the government and the majority of the population's attitude to unemployment, that one has been so enormously passive, sounds a bit hollow. Early in the fall, the Labour Party was out with its crisis package – now we were really going to make a change, and they are coming with a demand for 2000 action places. A few weeks later, the state budget came where it is twice as high, and still is too passive. I think this reminds me more of what is being described – I think it was in the television series ‘Yes Minister’ – as the politician’s misconception, which is: Yes, we have to do something, this is something, we have to do it. But it's not always that it's wise. One should look closely at the measures proposed, and one should be well-informed that there are more positive consequences than negative consequences before an emergency enters into it, and I believe that what the Labour Party will have the Stortinge to adopt today is to rush into something that is not the right instrument as is the situation on the labour market today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e643	I would like to remind you that the heritage of the red-greens was a historically low unemployment. I would like to mention that Norway has long had a good working life, one of the world's best working lives, because we have had an organized working life and a regulated working life, on the basis of which there has been a well-functioning tripartite cooperation. Just the Norwegian model has given a highly adaptable working life, because it involves safe, competent labour, close dialogue and opportunities to make the necessary changes when required. When companies experience economic fluctuations, it is essential to have mechanisms that prevent them from losing their labour and skills and hence the most important opportunity to get back on track. This requires a regulatory framework for permissive action, which takes account of the economic situation experienced by the country and industry, with concrete measures. The option will be for many to become unemployed, which is completely meaningless all the time when there are actually better alternatives. The alternative, it's permitting. The option is a leave of competency enhancement during the period of leave. There is something that could make businesses far more competitive, more adaptable. So a comment on the arguments that go into locking the workforce inside, which has been mentioned here. It's essentially a very theoretical starting point. As it's been said, it's not like people necessarily change jobs or industries. Nor is it necessarily the case that it is for the benefit of society that industrial workers leave their territory, their profession, their profession and move from family, community and home to take temporary jobs in other areas. That's because if we're to succeed in a real transformation of society, we have to respect our industrial skills and use time to strengthen it rather than liquidate it. For just that's the key to any forward move. I also believe it is important to listen to the experiences of the Swedes, who have not had our permitting legislation or anything near what is being proposed today. When the industry went down, people lost their jobs. What happened next was not that people started working in completely different industries than they used to be. No, when the economy changed and got on the feet, they came back to the company, but then they hired labour. There's no development we want. Then I have to say that I react very strongly when the proposal that is being promoted today is described as populist overbidden policy, when business is asking for precisely this type of solution, and the employee and employer side – I remember from the hearing that at least the Federation of Enterprises, Shipowners and Norwegian Industry were very clear that improvements in the framework of the law on permitting, the possibility of raising skills and maintaining their workforce were the most important thing to do from a political point of view. So it's true that NHO and Works had their arguments against. One was about lock-in, the other was about Works having an area where you actually need labour. I repeat that the possibility of conversion lies in the industrial competence, and I would commend the proposers for an important and necessary initiative and say that SV votes for all three proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e662	Both I and the government take the daily lives of all the 80 000 registered unemployed seriously every day. It is not a happy day for those who experience losing their job. A lot of people are still asking themselves if they're going to be the next ones to be cancelled or put off. This is because we are in a difficult period in the Norwegian economy. This is due to low petroleum investment, because it is in the oil-related industries that the activity has stopped, which means that we have increased unemployment in the West and South. So it's also that the unemployment goes down into nine counties. This means that we are in a completely different situation from what was the case during the financial crisis, when we got a large drop in unemployment across the country and in much more occupations and industries. If we are to succeed in giving these people a better everyday life, we must succeed in a policy where work, activity and conversion are at the centre. Therefore, the government believes that, rather than at that time, as we believe to be wrong, changing the permit rules is more important to ensure activity. It is more important that the people who are available today can come back to the workshop, come back to their jobs and use their skills, get to work and earn 100 pst. salary instead of going free of 62.4 pst. of wages and salaries. You don't get any less free of going any further. You'd think it was one of the recipes when you heard more of the speakers from this pulpit. But it's actually that you don't get any less free of going any further. Me and the government believe that the most important thing we can do is create work and activity. That is why we have invested considerable resources in the state budget for next year, in order to upgrade ferries and set in motion the construction of new, state-of-the-art research vessels, new coastal shipping vessels. It will provide jobs. Now that there is a significant increase in road maintenance compared to the red-green government, more workers are currently maintaining roads than before. If we are to succeed in getting more people to work, I am convinced that we need to think a lot of things at the same time. We have to think about how we can get the activity up. At that time, the incentives that have come into the state budget will be important, with 4 000 more places of action and the government’s ability to allow those who have started education before leaving the post to complete their education without losing the allowance. It's important grips. It's not to sit still and watch and not do any of the world's things. The change in the rules for in-house training from 13 to 26 weeks in record time, targeting the sectors that need it, in contrast to the regions that need it, is an active policy – not a passive one. But the answer to this proposal is that more people will go further. I think it's a bad recipe all the time it's actually nine states that have a decline in leave. It is also important to ensure that we have mobility in the labour market, and that we also make the unemployed move where the vacancies are. It is right, as the representative Rotevatn also points out, that neither the NHO nor the NWO want this proposal. However, I would also like to say that when unemployment trends are followed closely, continuously, from day to day, only measures have been taken, as the government has done, with several action areas, more maintenance, etc., in-house training, changes for those who have started education and are outsourced, who have been positive. I do not exclude that new changes must also be made in the future, but the time is not right now to implement this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e686	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e689	The representative Rotevatn said that it was important not to rush into solutions, and that one should think well about them. There may well say that he has been fully implemented by the Council of State, when it comes to introducing measures in relation to the needs of the unemployed, the needs of the business community. So the Council of State mentioned company internal training, which is an instrument that I have a very strong sense of. What the government has done, with the expansions that have taken place, is good, but there is one thing the government has not done, and which I ask the Council of State to look into: In 2009, when the corporate internal training code was changed, we changed the criteria to be able to receive company internal training. According to today's legislation, this is the case – and I have been confirmed by many Nav offices that they have not received any new information – that it is only possible to use it during conversion in the companies, and not in the event of a short-term failure; it requires that the legislation is amended. Will the Council of State now go in to amend the legislation so that it can be used in the event of economic failure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e696	We have recently changed the rules for in-house training, and then I think it is important that we allow it to work, so that we can see what effects it has, and as I said from the interlocutory: I do not exclude that in the future new steps must be taken to meet the unemployment situation. Then I understand that the representative Andersen has a great deal of faith in the proposal he himself made when he was the Council of State. The proposal we have submitted is a proposal on which we have had good dialogue with the parties, both on the employee and on the employer side, and we have put forward what they have asked for. They asked for three things: to make the scheme more familiar, not to change the criteria of the arrangements, but to extend it from 13 to 26 weeks, we have done that, and to target more towards the areas that need it the most. We have. Then I feel that here we have good dialogue with the social partners. We have submitted a new company internal training course, and I do not intend to change what we have agreed with the social partners right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e705	It's true that I have good faith in the proposal we made, because we know that it worked, and many companies have a good chance of using a low economic period for internal training to get out after the period of more competence in the company. I believe that the Council of State now confirms that he does not want to change the legislation so that it can be used as a cyclical instrument, but that one must follow the general rules that apply, that is, that there is a change in the company – new machines or the kind of thing – that should be the criteria for the scheme. After all, the Council of State has not put in place a mechanism to deal with the recession, because it would be contrary to the legislation to receive support in a low economic cycle with that justification. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e712	That's right, as Andersen's representative said. As I said in my previous answer: I see no reason to change what we have agreed with the parties about, right now. And as I also said, I don't exclude that we should make new changes if the vacancy situation so warrants. It's on a broad basis. I think we need to meet the unemployment situation on a broad basis, namely to ensure that we succeed in work, activity and conversion. Therefore, the Government of the State budget for 2016 has made the largest effort of the time, among other things. on research, because we are facing a new normal situation with a significant change of pace, and we cannot create instruments to prevent this change. I think that would be unfortunate for workers, that would be unfortunate for businesses in the long term. At the same time, it would make sense to do what the government does — run on more to keep the activity up, create new activity for those who are in a vulnerable situation, who have lost their job, or are at risk of losing their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e719	The state council repeats that you don't get less free from going on leave. The improvement of the system of leavers is not encouraged for companies that are not life-saving to survive, but for jobs to have an outstretched arm when the waves become too high. That's why I wonder, does the Council of State mean that people get less unemployed because businesses are shut down than if people get more skills when they leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e724	No, but as was said from the pulpit: we see that average unemployment is relatively low, and that it has not stuck to a long-term unemployment situation. The whole purpose of the rules on permitting is to ensure that enterprises that have market failures over a shorter period of time — not enterprises that have a long-term decline, need permanent conversion. That is why I believe, based on the average unemployment rate we have today, and not least the need we have to keep up the activity and succeed in conversion, that we have a law of permitation that is well adapted to the labour market situation. What you're doing now is you're prolonging your period of notice. It doesn't mean that you become more active or less free to go 22 weeks longer on leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e731	Then I wonder: When it is such that both the Federation of Enterprises, Norwegian Industry and others on the employer side, as well as the employee side, highlight the possibility of being able to increase competence during the period of leave as one of the most important possibilities to cope with the future, will the Council not then see that it will be able to remedy in the short term, absolute, but also strengthen Norwegian business in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e736	Investing in empowerment is very important to succeed in conversion. It is also important to maintain the skills of enterprises, it is important to develop new skills, to be competitive into new markets or in the market in which they are located. There are a lot of ways to boost your skills in an enterprise. I grew up myself near Kværner Verdal – or Aker Verdal, as it was then called – and they came up with a very good way to do it without changing the rules of the permit, and they also gained a significant boost in competence. It may be natural to look at such instruments. But BIO, enterprise-internal training, as we have changed, will be an important measure to provide more enterprise-internal training in order to get better skills into businesses during a transition period, one of which is totally dependent on to succeed, and which many companies now demand. For those companies that now have market failures, it is important to start new activity as soon as possible. Therefore, this government has invested considerable resources in the 2016 government budget to create activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e745	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e750	We have long been able to present Norway as an island of work in a sea of unemployment. It's not like that anymore. We're moving up on unemployment statistics. We pass countries like Germany and the United States. At a time when unemployment is breaking down, we need an offensive government. When we had a financial debate in this Chamber a few days ago, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance were asked how powerful the efforts against unemployment were on the part of the government – after we had registered a significant negotiation in the Stortinget, which meant that the effort seemed to be reduced. It could have been interesting if the Minister of Labour could tell us how powerful the efforts presented by the government are in dollars and cents. The proposal we are currently considering is about being able to permit. In my home country, which is one of the states that makes good use of the unemployment statistics, with an unemployment rate of 1.9 pst, there are also companies that have to leave. They say that if they're going to be able to be part of e.g. the green shift must take care of their competence. They can deliver products to other sectors, but then they must have the workbook in place so that they can participate and compete for the new tasks. This is probably also the case with Norwegian Industry and other large employers' organisations, when they go in with all the employees' organisations to change the permit rules, in line with what we are saying here. The Council of State has said in its own document that permitting is perhaps one of the most important instruments we can use. Eight out of ten come back to work in their own company. Nine out of ten are working after a short period of time. When the Progress Party sees this proposal as a policy of surrender, I think the unemployed should notice it. If there is a policy of oversupply today, it is the measures aimed at the unemployed. A cut of almost 2 billion. In our view, the social security schemes for the unemployed in the last two years are an over-supply policy. This is something that the unemployed should also notice when the days are a little heavy, as the Minister of Labour described it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e764	It has been especially important to listen to today's debate. The government parties have stood on the platform and claimed that they understand the difficult situation in the South-West, but do not follow up on concrete measures and are passive. The chairperson of the Committee, Mr Kambe, makes Nav his witness to the truth, the representative Rotevatn has not heard any demands from industry, but both forget that a combined industry, from the Norwegian Industry to the Joint Confederation, is behind the call for more solidaristic legislation on permitting. The representative Wiborg, from the Party of Advancement, believes that the government is doing enough for the unemployed, but forgets that 80 pst. of the persons on leave come back to work. Governments are very much talking about migration, while unemployment is growing, the package of measures is being cut – rhetoric is more important than politics. Not in 20 years has Norway seen such a high level of unemployment. 127 000 people do not have a job. In Rogaland, we have high-recorded leave. Behind the numbers there are a thousand families who go to Christmas with great insecurity. They live at home in Stavanger, all around Rogaland and Agder – all over the South West. It's the people behind the numbers we have to remember, people who want to work, people who want to contribute to the community. That is why the Labour Party is today fighting for a better regulation, so that fewer people lose their jobs, and so that more people can contribute. It's not populism – it's how the community should work when it's worse times. Misunderstand me correctly: the working party does not believe that the government is responsible for the low oil price, but they are responsible for the measures to meet the growing unemployment. But I'm not surprised by the passivity. It's classic right-hand side not to have faith in community. I guess that's true right now. The message to 127 000 unemployed people is: Go home and convert yourself! The government is facing increasing unemployment with political games and empty rhetoric – it is the opposition that is the problem today, when we want better legislation on permitting. The unemployed are still waiting for answers. The availability continues to grow. The claim that today's proposal is populism is nothing more than a record bomb from the Progress Party. A trusty but important thing that permitting legislation never reaches the first pages. The press release today is quite empty, but the proposal is important – it is very important. It is not a proposal that will change everything alone, but it will contribute. When we know that 80 pst. of the licensed come back, there is no reason to hesitate. Today should be the time for action. The government shows that they do not understand Norway. It is a serious response to the 127 000 unemployed, to those who are now out of work, to all those who need targeted, concrete action now. That is why it is very regrettable that the proposals put forward by the Workers' Party to secure and create new jobs are today being voted down by those who are set to rule the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e783	What was it that marked the front pages of the previous big shot? Well, there were some warnings: among other things, we could read in one newspaper that Norway after eight years of red-green government rotted on the root, and that there was a need for mass maintenance. Increasing unemployment was also predicted in the future. And then what are we left with? Well, then we are left with the fact that the previous government had not prepared Norway well enough for the change in which Norway was going to end up in. That's the truth. That's what's right. The centre-right parties had warned against this situation for years, in the public debate and in debates here in this Chamber. But you weren't listened to by the red-green parties, and now we're standing here poorly prepared as Norway was because of the red-green government. So what are we going to do? Well, we're implementing some very important measures to keep the economy going. One is that we say we have to have a tax policy that allows for investment. It's about just parties on the left that go around and believe that if a company gets less economic space because of tax pressure, they get more opportunities to invest and create new jobs. The second is that we're taxing work less. In addition, we have a package of measures to keep the wheels running in Norway. The representative Aasrud now stood on this platform and said that no response was received in the financial debate on the size of this package. There were so many answers to that question: the package is about as large as it was, but after the negotiations, some repriorities were made that would also be good for employment. It was said countless times from this pulpit, and you have to have red-green ears to not have it with you. At the same time, we see in the Workers' Party's alternative budget that they lack 5 billion. kr. They're using 5 billion. non-existent kr. That is what is today called responsible and constructive budgeting from the left. Well, I think we should be happy because there are actually some people who take this situation seriously, spend money that exists, and implement the measures that are necessary in this situation, and that they are in government instead of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e792	Those were good words from Stefan Heggelund, as always, but that's not why I took the word. I took the floor because of the contribution to Rigmor Aasrud. She said that it was very important to maintain the skills of the employees. Well, I'm actually very, very much in agreement. But when others need this competence, it is very important that they get the opportunity to do so. The representative Rotevatn told a great story that the individual company he named was finally given qualified competence. I notice a lot of places along the West, that many companies are now finally getting qualified seekers. I think that giving even stronger permit rules prevents even more people from looking for jobs. In any case, it seems to me that many people want jobs that they would like to have. I think that's a very, very bad idea. I think it's very important that the enterprise that's about to denounce people has more potential to tie them up in the future if they make a future agreement with them. There are arrangements we are very poor at exploiting here in the country. It says a little about it in the Proposition of the Storting, but I could imagine challenging the business partners, in a completely different way from what we are doing today, to make good agreements with each other, where they invite me to come back to the company if they are needed in the future. They can be proved to enter a position again after several years in which they have been out in other industries, and thus also bring back new knowledge. We're too small when it's a liability to find good, useful and forward-looking solutions to this. It is not only the state that should resolve this by using other rules and more money on these permitting rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e803	When the representative Stefan Heggelund, now supported by Ove Bernt Trellevik, made such strong statements, it is at least necessary to make a different understanding of reality. It just falls back on the representative seam when he talks about the red-green government delivering a Norway that rots on its roots, that we are here because of the red-green government in terms of the work situation, and that now we have got the government that takes the situation seriously. It's a story that belongs rather to a child's society when it comes to robbers' stories than to the Storting's pulpit. What distinguishes the government is that it rates of increased private consumption through tax relief, through the lowest possible interest rate, so that it becomes very cheap — yes, even cheaper — to borrow money, so that one can further develop a debt-funded consumption, a debt-funded consumption that at least all value-conservatives cannot last. There is a need to be reduced, and what is then the major challenge for this hall is to work for full employment through increased production rather than increased consumption. Norwegian production must rise. Norwegian production in the form of the manufacturing industry that we have, and not least what produces goods based on our renewable natural resources, must rise and rise. To that, one needs to change the framework conditions, as it has been done in our entire history, to ensure that there is profitability in the manufacturing industry. It's the profitability of the manufacturing business that needs to be done with, and at that point, the government has a unique weakness. It's dramatic that you can sit and see that the producing business doesn't get a greater vitality. But the reason is that one has developed a relationship with business neutrality that largely resembles religion. Overall, the government also has a position on working life, which is that differences and difficulties in working life – in the sense that the full-time worker does not receive decent income from others – are largely devalued. It's very strong to hear this. I am also waiting to hear some representatives from what should be left of the value-conservative Right, who can correct the production that the representative Heggelund brought here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e816	Yes, it might have been interesting, as the representative Lundteg was in the room, to hear what the value conservative Right thinks about the breakthrough of liberalism. I leave that to others to answer. But much of the background that we've managed to deal with setbacks in the economy in the past – because it's coming – has actually been that we've been based on a very extensive tripartite collaboration, one of the best features of the Norwegian model. Then I find it quite interesting when the representative Rotevatn explains that he wants to go against a stronger law on permitting, that it seems that the employer organisation is opposed. Actually, they're not the ones with the problem. For us, tripartite cooperation is that we actually listen to those who have the problem – for example. Norwegian Industry or Shipowners' Association, which is now actually experiencing a lot of the reduced activity. For us, that's what's good tripartite cooperation – listening to those who have challenges, and seeing if we can give a handshake. Better regulation of leave is a hand bill, which the people concerned have requested from both employers and employees. I agree with the representative Lundtigen's characteristic of Heggelund's contribution – imaginatively, perhaps the nicest way you can say it. What impact do the newspaper pages have after their last choice? What marked the Norwegian community when this government took over was, as the representative Aasrud said, an island of full employment in a sea of unemployment. That's what this government is sitting right now, took over. They took over such a situation — despite the fact that one had warned that it was going to be tough times for Norwegian business, when the government took over Stoltenberg in 2005. It wasn't. There were 350 000 new jobs or more than that during that period, two thirds of them in the private sector and one third in the public sector. It's because we have a resilient business with a lot of competence. In order to achieve those transitions, welfare schemes — including good permitting legislation — are a support function for the ability of private business to convert. As a result, the current government took over a good situation. We're not in a good situation anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e823	In his first post, the representative, Andersen, said that we must now give the business what they are asking for. I replied in my post that there is not a single main connection on the employer's page that asked for it. The representative, Andersen, and in particular the representative, Bergstø and the representative, Tvedt Solberg, respond by referring to individual associations within sectors that call for this, such as the Shipowners' Association and the Norwegian Industry. Yes, of course they do. Of course, those enterprises that have a product that is no longer in demand because the product has fallen in price will have schemes that are as lucrative as possible, so that they can keep the workforce as long as possible, in case the oil price is going to rise again. It's not a surprise. But that's not the issue. The problem is, of course, all the others. I think it is disappointing to see that the Labour Party – which takes the aim of being a state-leading, responsible party – is turning into a sector party here. Instead of seeing Norway as a whole, working life as a whole, and listening to the main associations, which take responsibility for health, one goes down on individual unions and on sectors and has to take action there. That SV does it is one thing, but I found it disappointing that the Labour Party does it, and I think it's irresponsible. Then there will be a fight about the story story, the state budget and what was done before 2013 and not. I have to say that one can mean what one wants about vocabulary, but when the Labour Party stands here and says it is very pleased with the job they have done for conversion and to lead Norway for the future before 2013, it says all about why the Labour Party lost that choice, and it says a lot about why they should not come back to government with the first. Although a low and flat oil price of 110 dollars was high, there were fundamental challenges in the non-addressed Norwegian industrial structure and in the world of work, which were postponed and postponed. Now there's a change, and what does the Workers' Party have to do? It's about protesting the conversion and wanting to go back to what it was. I didn't think it was trustworthy, and I would strongly encourage the Workers' Party to go a bigger round and look at the health when they're going to shape their policies forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e830	For the government it is important to have good dialogue with the social partners. The last time the social partners gathered on a position on the legislation on permitting was when LO and NHO sent a joint letter to Prime Minister Erna Solberg that there was a need for changes in the law on permitting. The Prime Minister was so quick that I think it was almost the same evening that she sent a letter back to the social partners and said, 'Consented.' Since then, we have made changes to the legislation on leave of absence in the field of education, and we have strengthened intra-corporate training with the social partners. We see that the Workers' Party in the summer focused on several action areas, and as Rotevatn says, the government doubled the week after the number of action sites beyond what the Workers' Party had thought of. Then came the Workers' Party with a package of measures that was “peanuts” in relation to what the government came into the state budget. The working party comes in too little too quickly, and then they forget that the government is actually very ambitious, with a budget for work, activity and conversion. Over 95 pst. by the people are at work. The vast majority of those who are unemployed today are in work after three months. And of those who have been unemployed for three to six months, there are still more people at work. It shows that we have a labour market and a business that is undergoing conversion. The government strengthens the efforts of entrepreneurs, and we strengthen research and development. It has never before been built more road than during this government, and there has never been more traffic, infrastructure and railway investment before. It generates workplaces. What happens to the refugee situation around the whole of Norway in 2016 will have a noticeable impact on employment. The discussion here might indicate that someone is in favour of and someone is against permitting, but the fact is that we want permitting, and we use permitting. We've even extended the leave to 30 weeks, and we think it's good with the leave. The problem is that the only workers' party has measures to meet an increasing unemployment rate are Nav measures and leavencies. What does permization mean? Well, that means day money, just as you get it when you're unemployed in the usual way. The daily allowance period is a maximum of 104 weeks. We are concerned that some of those who are now getting a permit notice, unfortunately, end up being cancelled when the permit is over, and therefore goes missing for half a year, 30 weeks or, in the worst case, one year with active job search. It's not the recipe for work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e843	I think we'll remind each other when the unemployment started to grow. It began to grow in the spring of 2013, under the previous government. If you saw clearly into the glass ball and could predict all the effects, why didn't you put forward a government budget for 2014 in the autumn of 2013 before you left, which had completely different instruments than the ones that were put forward? I am a bit shocked by this debate, by the powerful words and expressions that are used that this government is a defensive government, while the opposition is powerful, that our actions are passive and consist of political games and rhetoric, while there are active measures coming from the opposite side. We experienced an election campaign in which some parties were more concerned about running around in a ring and shouting ‘too little too late’, before they came up with an action package of 2.5 billion on August 20th. kr, which in any case turned out to be too late when the State budget was presented and the new package of measures, also from the Workers' Party in opposition, came. I have some problems taking this seriously when you look at the degrees that change rhetoric, because what the government put forward with powerful and targeted instruments and measures to dampen the increase in unemployment, also joined the opposition and said was good. The big contrast between the government and the largest opposition party is that we have a budget that goes into balance and that finances it. I don't think the unemployed want more measures reduced on a paper that can't be financed. It won't help many unemployed people back to work, it won't create an increase in activity, it won't create an increase in conversion. As I understand it from this debate and the financial debate, this is missing 5 billion. kr. The package of measures to which the government provides is about the same level as the agreement it had negotiated. More has been spent on roads compared to what has been used on road maintenance. It will also trigger labour force. Irrespective of that, the government uses at the same time over 9 billion. NOK on road maintenance, while the red-greens spent a little over 4 billion. At the same time, which will also mean almost twice as much use of labour to keep employment up. It is important to follow developments further. This government has done so, and that is why we have taken many measures. There may be a need to amend the permitting legislation. There's no time for that now. There has always been a tradition of adapting it to the labour market situation. I believe that the legislation is adapted to the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e858	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e861	The time we're in requires for the degrees of active action. It requires the correction of the market, plan, governance and security, so that people can have security of income, and it requires change, so that we can take the environmental and climate challenges seriously. Then something much, much more than market liberalism is needed. This will become increasingly evident in the Norwegian people. We need to bet on production and production life. One cannot continue to have consumption expenditure – debt-funded final consumption expenditure – to ensure employment in Norway. It's not sustainable. In this area, in terms of production, the government is so restrained that it is almost tragic. In addition, there are issues of distribution of income, distribution of opportunities in society. When the government doesn't see this going the wrong way, a powerful opposition is needed that can stand for the agility of the Norwegian community, and that's where the Center Party is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e868	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e882	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that up to three lines of reply are given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e889	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good and constructive work on the matter until we are going to debate it today. Norway is a country that is known for good welfare arrangements for its citizens, and so it should be in the future. The welfare systems provide a basis for predictability over time and preserve the quality of life of the individual. Sometimes it is necessary to revise existing welfare systems in order to better adapt them to our time and challenges. This is also the background to the proposals made by the government in this matter. The proposal promotes amendments to the Law of Appeal to the Social Security Court. The proposals involve a revision of the law. The Social Security Act has rules on the scope of the Social Security Act, but is otherwise in the broad sense a law on the proceedings before and in the Social Security Court. The main purpose of the revision of the social security law to which it is added is to modernise and adapt the law to current needs. The amendments proposed are mainly related to the rules of procedure. Therefore, no changes are proposed as regards the scope of social security. The right to social security shall continue to be an independent, judicially-like management body, which shall decide on the rights and obligations of individuals under the Law on social security and a number of other pension and social security contributions. The scope of the search shall be maintained in all material respects as at present. Amendments are proposed through the introduction of the purpose paragraph, the winding-up of the system of Members of the Legislature, the setting up of the Court by five members instead of seven in principle, the introduction of rules on additional recognition, the extension of rules on the drafting of judgments, the statutory independence of members of the courts, the legalisation of the principle of chance, the legalisation of arrangements for the resumption of claims by the Court of Social Security and the reimbursement of travel and subsistence expenses in the event of oral legal proceedings. Changes of a more editorial nature, including the improvement of the legal system and the modernisation of the legal text, are also proposed. In the court proceedings, the element of doctors has been considered an important element of principle. However, the debate has been particularly linked to the participation of the layman in criminal proceedings. In civil matters, participation by a layman, with the exception of certain specific types of cases, is now a special sight. In social security matters, it is used virtually never. Lawyers have been useful in one matter since the 1990s. Nor has it been requested by the parties. Legal certainty in the social security system is a matter of professional competence to determine the matters to be dealt with there. The right of access to justice currently enjoys good competence through the rapid and medically skilled members of the justice system. As a result, the social security court has very rarely been set up with members of the medical profession, and the last time it happened was in 2002. In contrast to criminal cases before the courts, the right to social security is not a court and is not built around the idea that a person should be judged by equals. The task of the Social Security Court is to be an independent body providing for a fair and reliable procedure. The Committee agrees on all the amendments except whether or not to maintain the current system of participation by the laymen. The majority of the Committee does not wish to maintain the current system of participation on the grounds that it must be an objective of the Social Security Court to reduce the duration of proceedings. Too long a procedure is unfortunate primarily for the private party, who is waiting for a decision that is often of great economic importance. The minority believes that the current regime of laymen should be maintained, and indicates that the entry of laymen is considered an important element of principle in the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e912	The rapporteur has explained the substance of the matter well and the Committee's consideration of the matter. We're pretty much in agreement. I will therefore limit myself to taking up and commenting on the Workers' Party's minority proposals, which have also been endorsed by SV, and link some comments to it. The Labour Party wants to maintain the possibility of appointing members of the Social Security Court, even if the scheme is used little after the law was amended in 1997. But it's been one thing. It may seem small, but it should also be considered what kind of case this was. There's nothing in the proposition. I have not been able to find such a case with doctors from 2002, but I found a case from July 6, 2001. The case concerned an application for occupational injury, a field which to a large extent is based on discretion. The professed party was woman. In the Fafo report, No. 45 from 2012, entitled ‘Dual injury — Most for men?’, researchers Roy A. Nielsen and Roland Mandal show that women are much less likely to be eligible for permanent disability benefits with occupational disadvantages than men. More than seven out of ten men with an occupational injury benefit during the survey period were men. A common perception is that the list of possible occupational injuries is better adapted to the human-dominated professions. But when the researchers left out diagnostics that had never given professional injury benefit to anyone, the difference was even greater. And the difference was still there when they just compared men and women with the same diagnosis, business background, education and age. This case also concerned a case in which the social security office had granted the application, but where the county employment office had converted the case to a disadvantage for the applicant. I have not been able to find out why, in this case, the Social Security Court chose to use members of the medical profession, but it must have been either that there was a difficult matter with great discretion, or the fact that the applicant had first been granted the application, and then lost the rights after conversion in a higher body, and that the Social Security Court saw the advantage of including members of the medical profession in a case which must have been considered to contain ‘difficult legal or evidence issues’. So even though doctors haven't been used very often, it's not entirely unthinkable that similar things can show up. Another point, which is not discussed in the proposal, is that, over a long period of time, the Social Security Court has focused on the reduction of the balances. When the ministry itself argues that it may require a little more administrative resources and a little longer to deal with cases involving members of the medical profession, it cannot be excluded that the residual focus may have influenced decisions on whether to appoint members of the medical profession. In any case, it is not necessary for medical practitioners to be appointed, to be called up, to be put into the cases, to have the cases sent and to be paid travel expenses and to have lost earnings, in particular good arguments, set up against the principle of the inclusion of members of the medical profession. The Ministry also refers to the possibility of appeal to the Lawyers' Court, where members of the medical profession can be appointed, but only approximately. 2 pst. further appeals are made by the alleged party to the Social Security Court. However, for the few who are anchored, there are quite a few who are being converted. In the hearing opinion to LO, it is shown that it applied over 30 p.m. of the cases in the statistics from 20l2 to 12 out of 37 cases. Doctors are usually appointed from among representatives of the organisations. The conclusion of the Labour Party is that the possibility should be maintained, including in the Social Security Court. A final point: the nature of the proposal does not indicate the extent to which the acknowledgment party is informed that he can request an assessment of the appointment of members of the medical team. If it is that the scheme is used little because it is not known, then there is an additional argument to keep the scheme and rather to make it better known. As I said, I hope it is not the case that there is pressure to bring down the remains that have caused doctors to have been used very little. But anyway, if it's going to continue to be such that the scheme is not used up, it can't lead to much extra work for the Social Security Court. At the same time, one may continue to maintain an opportunity if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e931	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e945	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e952	Today, we are discussing an important proposal for changes to the Social Services Act. It is proposed to exclude children’s income from the assessment of applications for financial assistance, for today, children growing up in families receiving financial benefits experience less support for the child’s income. Just that's very difficult for kids and young people to understand. Isn't that how money I make is mine? Are my parents going to get any worse advice because I'm going with the paper? Is my little sister going to miss school because I'm making my own money? Why should I want to work when the money is gone anyway? That's what this is about; children and young people who learn from the public that it's no use, that there's no point in making their own money. These are the kids and young people who may have had a hard time growing up, those who may not have asked Mom and Dad to play football, because they knew that a training camp in Turkey and a cup in Barcelona was too expensive, those who knew that the summer holiday was spent at home, while classmates came home after vacation with stories about beaches in Thailand, princesses in Disneyland and how incredible it was to ski in the Alps. I am therefore pleased that we in Stortinget today make this change in the law. This is also a change that should have been made a long time ago, but the important thing is that we do it today. We do this for all the children and young people who live in families with poor advice. They are now given the opportunity to see that making their own money pays off. We know that too many of those who become poor in the future are those who themselves have grown up in poor families. One way and an important contribution to breaking this vicious circle is to show – and that you see – how your own income pays off. One of the most powerful means of preventing poverty from inheriting is to let young people keep their own income, without causing negative consequences for the family. In this way, they'll see that payroll is the best way to support yourself in the future. I hope that today's debate can be about the actual proposals we are dealing with, because if you go through the Committee's comments, unfortunately, too much is about how the various parties want to get the most credit to combat child poverty. Even in the cooperation parties – the Progress Party, Right, Left and Christian People’s Party – we have good reason to be proud that a strategy against child poverty has been launched for the first time. It is an important commitment to the fight against child poverty. At the same time, we know that all governments and the majority of the population have been concerned with reducing poverty. Some went so far as to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, which turned out not to be possible, but the most important thing now is that we come up with the concrete measures that can contribute. There are over 100,000 children living below the poverty line in Norway. It is significantly more than it was in 2005. In the past, the Progress Party has proposed raising child protection, strengthening volunteering and facilitating job-creating measures. We need to be willing to look at different instruments, we need to look at the cause of poverty developing, and take action to halt this development. I aim that fewer children will live in poverty, and at this time of year it is also important to remember that not all children are looking forward to Christmas. The best thing about Christmas is to see expectations and enjoy small children's eyes, but the goal must be that, as politicians, we contribute to more children's eyes enjoying Christmas, rather than being cruel or ashamed because of poor family finances. That is why I am glad that the money that children and young people themselves are making should not lead to a financial loss for their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e967	This matter concerns an important principle, and it is that parents are responsible for caring for their children and not the opposite. I believe it is an important principle, which I expect this hall to hold fast, also in terms of matters we are going to deal with later this week. If parents are unable to support their children, it is important that we have public support schemes that can contribute to it. When the Workers' Party chooses to support this case, it is because this is a mere continuation of what happened in 2012, because on page 2 of the proposal it says: ‘However, in the context of the revision of the circular to the Social Services Act in 2012, Section 18 of the Act made it clear that the income of children from afternoon and Saturday work alongside the school should not lead to the parents not receiving benefit for the child. However, the KOSTRA reporting for 2013 shows that some municipalities have not changed their practice as a result of the clarification in the circulars of the law.’ That's why it might be appropriate for us to legislate on this, but it can't be that if we have Nav's circular on how the Social Services Act is to understand, you shouldn't care about it. It should also be ensured that the municipalities that do not change practice the following year actually do so. So you could say that this might be superfluous, but once the proposal is put forward, we'll support it. But I have to say that I reacted a little to the rapporteur's presentation of what this is going to do, because if it's the way kids have to work to get to Disneyland or to Alpine holiday in the Alps or go to the United States, it's completely wrong, because it's the parents who have to make sure that kids can get a good holiday offer, too. That's why we can't say that this is what's going to take care of children living in poor families. Then it's the parents' income we have to focus on, and for us it'll still be the most important thing to get people to work, so that they get to have the income they need to give their kids the offers they think are right. But when we can't, it's the public that has to set up support schemes. Then it's strange that only a few years ago the government proposed to cut 590 million. kr in the Appendix as pregnant persons who have children shall have. The answer will then be that the kids will have to work to get the same offers. It becomes quite incoherent, and therefore there is also reason to point out that policy is about contexts and not just individual actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e981	Today we do what should be obvious, we say that when a family is applying for financial benefit because they are struggling, the income of children, the income they receive from work alongside school or on holidays, should not affect the social welfare of the family – it should just be lacking. A practice in which these revenues count for disbursement is the result of nine-time bureaucratic thinking. You sit with your forms, you enter their tables, you see an income and you think it has to be part of the total. In this case, some valuations, such as: How important it is for young people to participate in several arenas and for jobs to be an important arena. Suddenly, the idea that children should not sit with responsibility for caring for their families disappeared. It's amazing – when you think about it – that it's been like this. Unfortunately, there are still municipalities that have this practice. That's why we're doing what should have been done – we're doing it by law. This is how we ensure that the practice is brought to an end. I'm glad that there's a unanimous committee in favour of this, then we'll let go of the doubt. We have seen in previous cases in this committee that the Labour Party has voted against what they are in favour of, because it is the government that has proposed it. It's a behavior they themselves think is constructive. In any case, there is something that creates unnecessary uncertainty about legislation. The more important it is that we agree on this. It is important for the government to close holes in the safety net. This is such a hole. In addition, a separate approach to child poverty has been presented. We have labour rights arrangements, and we're cleaning up the response system. We do it because we know that the best social policy is that people have a job to do, that a family feels better if what you live with is a labour income at the bottom. That is why the majority – the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party – have strengthened the working line and together we create a more social working line. This matter is an important contribution to that work. That there is an agreed committee that is in favour of this is not something that is obvious if you look at the comments. Here, there are three different majority who present their views and three different minorities. Some – it seems – feel the need to explain why they themselves were unable to solve this problem. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have what may be a customary remark gradually about the major problems of immigrants. The question is, why do you still need to hang on to each other in matters where you find agreement? I think it is little incomprehensible unless it is then such that one will try to remove the attention from the facts of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e994	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that such a change of law has been promoted and will of course vote for this change. We know that there have been different practices, and that the calculation of social assistance for families with children is done differently depending on the municipality that will carry out the calculation. The practice of including children's income in the social welfare assessment has only reinforced the challenging situation of children in low-income families. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is an overall committee in favour of this change. I record that there are some different reasons why you choose to support it. We're mainly glad that there's a total mass that's behind this. We in the Christian People's Party have programmed that we will work to ensure that child welfare, cash support, children's gifts, or children's income from, for example. Nor shall summer work be included in the basis for the calculation of benefits under the Social Services Act and the Housing Aid Act. That is why we are today promoting proposals that are in line with this. That is what we are promoting in connection with case No. 9 on the agenda – the SV’s draft representative on child poverty measures. That is what is our primary position, which must be understood as a supplementary proposal that is in addition to what the government is proposing in this matter. But we'll get back to that later. We are voting in favour of the government's proposal in this position, which, in our view, is a bit on the way and so a very good and important legislative amendment decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1005	The centre party supports the amendment proposal. It's like: ‘Assessing the application for family benefits shall not take into account the income of children from work on leisure and school holidays.’;» That's very good. It stimulates self-activity in youth, and it's great. It is not superfluous, practice has shown. The story is that the red-green government revised the Social Services Act in 2012 to clarify that children’s income from afternoon and Saturday work alongside the school should not lead to parents not receiving support for the child. That's good. This has led to a lack of common practice, and therefore legislation is absolutely necessary, and the government should have a say in it. When we also have comments, it's because child poverty is usually related to the income opportunities of society, it's related to full employment, and it's related to small income differences. When the Centre Party and SV have a comment on what we call ‘the offer shock in the Norwegian labour market’, there is no need to blame each other, but it is simply public information. It is simply a professional fact that the supply shock that the Norwegian economy is now facing, with the free movement of labour from countries with completely different economic and social conditions, leads to the least opportunity for those who are weakest in the Norwegian labour market to provide their children and young people with safe growth. It's a fact. And the thing that's strong here is that the Workers' Party cannot participate in the professional description that we're giving here, a professional description that is more and more environments within the trade union movement, within the Academy, fully agree on, and which is a basis for discussing this in a proper way in the future. If we don't take these facts over us, it's still very much a mouthache, it's still a mouthache that you're going to do something about child poverty. In conclusion, I have a small greeting to the representative Wiborg who says here that he really sees the young, who is in a difficult situation, and the expectation and joy that are in small children's eyes, and that is very well said. Many of us experience it, but it is very strongly said when the same representative is in favour of an economic liberalism which he stood here for a short time ago, an economic liberalism where it is the strongest right that gets even greater impact than it has today, that is, an economic system that creates even more losers, even more losers among children. That's why I think it's strong by the representative Wiborg to make such statements when one knows that the overall policy that the representative stands for leads to an ever fewer joy in his eye, a joy that we in the opposition are now working to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1019	It's a happy day the times there's a consensus in this room to improve the conditions of people who are struggling financially. Today's consensus is that the income of children is not taken into account when measuring social economic assistance. It will contribute positively to those involved, and not least ensure a level playing field across the country. It is very important that children with parents who have poor advice should not experience that the family as a whole is being punished for being able to get a part-time job or a summer job. And it's not important for poor people to learn that working pays off, those who are outside know it, often far better than those who are safe in a working life and who have an economic armshake in their lives. It is therefore necessary to have a working line that works, and to remove what is perceived as completely unfair punishment for poverty, such as the income of children, and it must be done without the children having to bear the burden of the family's finances or make choices as adults. Kids are still going to be kids and spend their money on what they want. Without intending to intervene in debates that we are going to debate later today, I hope that the Stortinget can gather on the principle that income to go to children is excluded when economic social assistance is measured. In this context, I would like to remind you that child welfare is also intended to go to children, and I hope that the next consensus in the favour of poor people can be that child welfare should be kept out when economic social assistance is measured. The representative Heggelund elaborated instead on how to find out that case handlers are sitting on a rigid form and input various incomes into the family as social assistance applications are being treated. Today, child-responsiveness is one of the incomes that are being introduced and that becomes a big hole in the family economy. That is why I look forward to the debate we are going to have later today, when the SV's proposal to combat child poverty is to be addressed. Then I don't think it's as strange as the representative Wiborg, that there are different approaches and different analyses of what poverty means, and how poverty and differences can be combated – when we're socialist and erkeliberal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1037	I am very pleased that the Stortinget takes the decision that the Stortinget today takes, which will make it much easier for many children under the age of authority who have an evening job, a weekend job, a summer job, which goes with the newspapers, to keep the income themselves. It's true, as the representative Aasrud said, that you had a circular interpretation, but as we know, many people didn't follow this circular, and many thought it unclear. How much could you make, how would you calculate this, and what would you take into account? These discussions have been held at regular intervals with regard to the income of children growing up with parents receiving social assistance. That is why I am very pleased with the decision today for several reasons. Firstly, the principle that children should never care for their parents must be firm. Every parent is responsible for caring for his or her children. So we know that children who grow up with parents with bad finances, too, are world champions in hiding that everyday life. They don't join the Norway Cup, they don't join the ski day because they don't have equipment, and because they can't afford to pay the training license or the specialty like that. The cup costs. And they think it's going to admit it, so they're trying to figure out other reasons. I have even met many children who, in a kinky situation, have taken a summer job to get this money in order to be able to pay the penalty in order to be with the rest of the friends of the Norwegian Cup team. I also, as a representative of the Magnitude, promoted a proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:4 S for 2011-2012, in order to amend that legislation, establish the Code and have a clearer Code. It was dealt with on 1 March 2012 and was then supported by the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. I am pleased that we now have a unanimous hall that believes the same as I also meant in 2012. That means we're getting a cross-political consensus in place where we clean up the legislation, we're getting a law that's fairer, and that doesn't punish kids who've done small jobs. It also gives a clear signal that this money can keep the children themselves. I believe this is a good clarification, which helps to maintain an important principle, and it ensures that you have better opportunities to see that working pays off. As the representative Heggelund had in mind, this government has strengthened the line of work, but it has also done so with a good social profile and with a good social policy at the bottom that shows justice in this respect. I think this is a good day for all children who have taken a job to finance and get money to join the football team or the ski tour or whatever it must be they want to be on. It should not – and should be clear – replace the responsibility of parents to support their children. Here we are talking about children who are in a very kinky situation, who experience a very difficult situation because their parents are social welfare recipients. Then it makes no sense that the income they receive should be deducted from the income of their parents – Irgo that they will never get on the trip they have worked all summer to get. Here the Storting cleans up, and I am very happy that this time at least you get a unanimous big deal behind the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1052	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1056	It is easy to agree that it is good that we have a unanimous decision in this matter. But I'm reacting a little to the argument used by both the Council of State and some of his party traps here today. We agree that it is important that kids can go to the Norway Cup. Many kids have to work to have pocket money to join the Norway Cup. But shouldn't we have a social safety net that allowed those kids to pay the Norway Cup tour and spend their pocket money on other things? Isn't it to catch the kids that fall outside, that we have a social security network? Why do they have to work to be part of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1061	I agree with the representative of Aasrud that a social safety network is important. Therefore, this government has undertaken a not insignificant effort to close holes in the safety network. That is why we now have two budgets in a row strengthening the equipment lending system, which enables more children than ever to participate in leisure activities and get borrowed equipment. It is part of strengthening this social security network that is important. At the same time, I have met some of the children who find it difficult to reach out to them, because they also have to reveal the difficult situation of their parents. They're world champions in camouflaging it and want to do it another way. I don't want to take away the possibilities to do that either. I would naturally encourage them to use the social security network with the loan deposits that are already there. That is important, and this government has strengthened by two budgetary approaches.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1066	Thanks for the answer. It is good that those arrangements are strengthened. I think that's good arrangements. But couldn't the Council of State expect to use as much force to encourage the municipalities to actually have the kind of arrangements that make the social security network there, that it is possible to cover that quota, and that the sports team or other associations get money to cover just such cases, so the exclusion doesn't have to be so visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1071	This is something that I encourage every day as a politician, as a father and as a part of sports for many, many years to put in place good arrangements in the municipalities and in the sports teams together with the volunteer centres just so that those in the most vulnerable situation could not pay the training fee and also get equipment. But then there are some children who don't come and reveal the situation. They have experienced that once you have worked and saved to camouflage a difficult situation, the income of your parents has been deducted. As a result, they have not come on the road anyway. I agree that the other arrangements will be used. I want to talk warm about them and highlight them. That's what this government is doing. That is why the government has also strengthened them on several occasions. My good colleague, the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has put forward good budgets in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1076	It could be tempting to ask the Council of State Eriksson how he thinks you could do this in a slightly more systematic way than you have to take the Council of State yourself to get that call. Here you go from using a circular, which you don't think is heavy enough, to walk the law. How, then, can arrangements be used other than to meet the Council of State and get that call in the municipality to reach those children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1081	You don't have to hit the council. We have more dialogues with volunteering. This government strengthens volunteering. We also have several dialogues with the municipalities. We have followed up in this area, including: The county office, which is assembled, so we keep the pressure on it. It's not like you have to meet the Council of State, but the Council of State thinks it's interesting and instructive to meet people who are in a vulnerable situation, and hear about their everyday lives, bring me the contents of everyday life and bring it back to make policies. I did that in the opposition, and I do that in the position. I think it is important that we politicians listen and thus find good solutions to those challenges. People live in different everyday lives, but we're going to give them the same freedom and the same opportunities regardless of what that everyday life looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1086	I want to thank you for your long-term commitment to driving through just this kind of law. I am pleased that a bill is being taken and promoted, as one sees that circular writing is not strong enough, that it is not a solid enough diet. But my question is, does the Council of State see that income intended for children is going to go to children? Does the Council of State see it as an important principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1093	Yes, I think income to go to children should go to children. And when children make money on their own, it's quite natural for children to keep that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1098	Then I wonder about the fundamental difference between the money the child has earned himself, and the social security, or the money the government has provided to the child because it is just considered that it is so important that children are cared for and have a basic amount of leisure time, for food, for clothing. Does the Council of State see it as two completely different things, or is it not possible to compare public funds intended for children, that there is an unfairness in subtracting them from when to measure the family's economy and social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1103	With respect to reporting, I don't know if I understood the question of the representative, because in the various social security systems we have different child supplements. It is possible that children’s allowances in the social security systems are aimed at, who are also tested for needs – the child’s pension is standardised and is valid for all, and is below the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, as the representative knows very well. I believe that it is an important principle that when people, including children, make money, they are allowed to have the right to dispose of the money – money that you have earned yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1108	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1124	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1131	In this case, the government promotes proposals to reduce the minimum threshold for membership of the State pension fund, of the pharmacies scheme and of the pension scheme for nurses to 20 pst. position for all. In addition, proposals are made to sum up small job breaks within the same scheme. In the pharmacy system, this is all legal. In the State pension fund, it is a result of practice. The current rules are different in the different pension schemes, so there are good reasons for cleaning up. The whole committee agrees on this. The minimum requirement for teachers is 35 pst. of a full-time job, while for other members of the State pension fund it is 14 hours per week. For pharmacists, the minimum limit is 15 hours and for nurses 14 hours. 14 hours is equal to 37.33 pst. position, 15 hours is equal to 40 pst. The proposal for a minimum limit of 20 pst. So this means a reduction in the minimum level of membership of all the schemes in question. The reason for the proposal is a judgment of the Labour Court of 21 June 2013 which stated that the minimum period of 14 hours for entitlement to membership of a municipal occupational pension scheme was a breach of the provisions of the Labour Environment Act against discrimination against part-time employees. The Labour Court did not decide whether this could also be a breach of the Gender Equality Act, but the issue is relevant, as most women work in job breaks. Nor did the Labour Court decide what might be a possible legal minimum, but referred this question to the parties. After the judgment, KS and KLP chose to raise the minimum limit completely. This was confirmed in the tariff statement the following year. In private occupational pensions, the minimum is 20 pst, as the government now proposes for the statutory schemes, but each pension agreement is free to decide that positions below the minimum limit of 20 pst. may be included. The Committee, in its proceedings, chose not to hold a hearing on the matter since it had already been consulted widely, as detailed in the proposal. Opinions were shared among the hearing bodies. Several employer representatives and pension providers supported the proposal, including: because, in that case, there will be the same minimum limit in the statutory schemes as in the private sector. On the other hand, several of the large employee organisations, together with the KS, showed that the proposed minimum limit of 20 pst. is likely to be illegal and in any case will be tried in law. In addition, the KS showed that the aggregation of lower job vacancies and, in addition, across tariff areas will have significant cost and administrative consequences and will open up too many errors. The government says in the proposition that, in the judgment of Labour Law, it considers that there are two options — either to completely remove the minimum limit or to set a common and lower minimum limit than the one currently in force. The Committee agrees, but has split into a majority and a minority on what should become the conclusion. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Left Party and the Centre Party, support the proposal of the Government and, in this respect, emphasise the advantage of having the same minimum limit in private and statutory arrangements. The minority consists of the Workers' Party and SV. The Christian People's Party is not represented in the Committee. The minority has chosen to focus more on the benefit of having the same rules in all public schemes. In addition, it has been announced that a greater similarity between public and private occupational pension schemes will be the subject of the 2016 tariff settlement, cf. the individual private sector pension agreement is free under current rules on the question of having a minimum limit of 20 pst. or lower, where applicable, no limit. In addition, the minority believes that lifting the minimum threshold is more in line with the pension reform, where a vesting scheme from the first crown is now in place. The costs of reducing the minimum limit to 20 pst. is estimated to be 2 million on a highly uncertain basis. kr for the first year of the State pension fund, gradually increasing to 60-80 million. kr in the case of full phase-in after 30 to 40 years. On the same uncertain basis, the costs for the other schemes are estimated at around 20 to 40 million. kr at full phase-in. State councils have estimated the costs of the State pension fund by raising the minimum limit up to 5 million. kr first year, rising to 150-200 million. kr fully phased in. For the pharmacies scheme, there is no change, while for the nurse scheme, on a very uncertain basis, it is estimated that increased expenditure will amount to 20 million. kr. Whatever's right, we're talking about under 1 pst. of today's payments of 24 billion. kr. I finally take the opportunity to take up the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1150	Then the representative Lise Christoffersen mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1153	There is a broad support for the government's proposal to change the rate of earnings. So today is for example. for teachers at least 35 pst. the position of having pension entitlements at all, while for pharmacists and others 14 hours per week, which is quite significant. The starting point was, as the rapporteur says, a judgment in Labour Law, where KS, i.e. the municipalities, has in practice introduced earnings from the first hour, while today there is one rule in the state and one in the private sector. As committee chairman of the Labour and Social Committee, I am concerned that we have a pension system that is gradually developing to be more like in the public and private sectors. I feel that the Labour Party's proposal in this matter actually counteracts the developments we are otherwise talking about. For there is a problem in Norwegian working life, the large differences in public/state pensions and private pensions. Especially for employees between 50 and 60 and above, it's like even if you're thinking about changing jobs, you really want to change jobs, you have the opportunity to change jobs, you might get more pay in the new job, and you have a pension scheme in the new job, so it's the pension agreement that makes you choose to stay in a job. It is a problem that the Storting needs to address more closely with the social partners, as one of the intentions of the pension agreement. It has been implemented in the private sector. Robert Eriksson has set up a sample to look at public pensions and get them more in line with the work line, more in line with the pension agreement that was adopted for others. Some of the principles there are, inter alia: that all the years of working life are valid, but in the country only 30 years are valid. In other parts of the pension agreement, you can combine work and retirement after 62 years. You can't do that in the state – even a break on the line of work. I know many in the state who could imagine such arrangements. I also think that we have some challenges to do that. So in private occupational pension schemes, the minimum rate is 20 pst. What the government is adding up to here, which I'm very pleased that the Central Party and the Left support the government parties today, is that we get an equality between the state's 20 pst share. and private service provision of 20 p.p., while at the same time providing a reasonably good additional extension of the pension base for very many people working in hospitals, such as nurses, teachers, pharmacists and other government employees. That's a pretty big change. I had actually expected the Workers' Party to support us in that proposal, precisely because the Workers' Party is historically a governing party, which helps to lead Norway from time to time and in between. Then I think that changing the pension scheme with the types of voting we have in the Storting is not appropriate. If we have put down a sample, as the government has now done, with reasonable support from the social partners and trade unions – NTL is positive, UNI is positive – that is, those who see what is going on, it is a little early on to make significant changes to this before you have anything to negotiate with. To look at public service pensions and to make changes in line with the pension agreement for others, this is a mechanism that can be considered when it comes to the Stortinget or, where appropriate, in negotiations with the government as part of the tripartite cooperation. I think the Workers' Party had actually stood to do that, rather than make that change today. I recommend the government's proposal, which is very well balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1172	This case shows that the political parties in this room at least agree on one important thing: we all agree that if you are at work, you should not only have a salary, but also earn a pension. Wages and salaries for work, and therefore pensions for wages and salaries, are fundamental to working life. This is a balance between employees and employers. It is about the sustainability of pension systems over time, and it is about common sense. I am pleased that the Storting will clean up the fact that many part-time employees have fallen out of pension schemes. Part-time employees are often young people who have not yet started planning their own pensions. We can't blame them for that, because most people have probably also been in that position. But that also means that the systems need to be facilitated so that these actually process retirement. It could be someone who works part-time alongside the studies, and it doesn't have to be much until a student is up to 20 pst. position. It is also the case that those who work and make money should preferably enter the pension scheme as early as possible and as simple as possible. It will ensure the sustainability of the pension system over time. Individuals will have much left to earn their part-time jobs, and it builds confidence that they can actually live on their own earned pension in the future. It also ensures that it is allocated to pension funds for the future. Social security costs are better addressed if part-time workers are also cared for. At the same time, it is important to be sober when changing rules. I believe that the easiest thing, the best and least bureaucratic is to do as the majority do today, and that is all right with the minimum limit that we are now going to go for. That the opposition is trying to turn populist coins on to suggest a lower limit, is typical, but not very reasonable. The party of progress is concerned with justice. At the same time, we're not very happy with bureaucracy. So that's why we have the country on the proposed limit, which is good and appropriate. We avoid troublesome limitations when someone has worked very little, and we avoid expensive handling of very small pension entitlements. The most important thing is that today we expand who receives pension rights in part-time work. That's why this is a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1185	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur, Lise Christoffersen, for his thorough work – and underline – as usual. The case concerns the common minimum limit at 20 pst. full-time job. The background is the case in the Labour Law of 2013. It is the fact that the current minimum limits in the three mentioned schemes in this case are different, but all are equivalent or higher than the minimum limit of labour law found to be illegal. None of the hearing bodies disagreed that the minimum limits of the three schemes should be reduced, but there were differences of opinion as to what the changes should entail. In the Centre Party, we have noticed what has come from the KS, which indicates that the aggregation of lower job breaks, as well as across tariff areas, would have considerable cost and administrative consequences, and that therefore one from their point of view reports all job relationships, so that one in practice does not have a limit. Once the centre batch has entered to have a minimum limit of 20 pst. Whereas, on the basis of the reasons which the Chairman of the Committee has also taken into account, there will be a common border in both public and private occupational pension schemes; We look at this as being central to holding on, while I would say that the Central Party wants the government to present a case to the Stortinget where one considers lifting the limit completely. It is clear that such a case will reveal the fact that there are many people who both have and want small jobs in the workplace. If one is to completely lift the minimum limits, a few must assess the complexity of such a proposal in relation to the benefits and strengths that it will bring to both parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1196	This is also a matter that has been discussed in Stortinget in the past. It has been discussed, and proposals have been made to this effect. I have, on several occasions, had the pleasure of promoting this proposal by opposition politicians. I'm glad that people with part-time jobs in the public sector now have the opportunity to earn supplementary pensions. It helps to provide better pensions for more people, and it will help to ensure a better pension system. Then I register this judgment that has been made in Labour Law, and I also record how KS has adapted its arrangements to it – and also KLP Pension – so that you can earn from the first penny. I have assessed it there for two reasons. First of all, I think it's important to make it possible for those with small part-time positions to earn more pension. The lower the limit, the smaller the supplementary pension will be, because it will be coordinated away, in view of the coordination law. I hope that in the future we will be able to clean that up when we are now in the process of – starting – modernising and adapting public service pensions to the pension reform, as it says in the government platform. At the same time, I think this proposal provides a good solution by having the same solution in the SPK that you have in the private sector, i.e. setting a limit of 20 pst. All in all, I believe that this is a joy for several thousand pensioners, who now earn supplementary pensions – a joy of having a big deal that supports this proposal. In the past, I have recorded that the majority of the Storting has been opposed to making changes. Now we've got a situation where there's a majority to make changes. I'm glad. Then I record that those who in their time were also opposed to reducing the 37-hour rule down to 20 pst., now have turned around and think it's too little to reduce down to 20 pst., and that it should go down to zero. I am recording it, but I do not think I have received a good answer as to why you have changed that view so drastically, when you were not interested in making changes when that was the case, among other things. in the previous period. I think it's still important to take pension questions in the right order. I hope that in the future, too, a better public service pension will be provided, a public service pension that is more consistent with the pension reform that was adopted and entered into force in 2011 and can also rectify some of the issues raised in the debate on public service pensions. As long as the coordination law is in place, as I said, it will lead to a very large number of people who have the KLP solution paying for a scheme, without getting anything back from that scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1215	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1218	By letter to the Committee, the Council of State has estimated that increased pension payments by raising the minimum threshold in the first year will increase from 2 million. NOK 5 million. kr – an increase of 60 pst. the costs of the first year. I would like to drill a little bit more in the figures stated by the Council of State, because in the proposition it appears that 9,076 employees in the state have an employment rate of less than 40 pst. 66 pst. they will fall within the scope of the Government’s proposal for a minimum limit of 20 pst. 34 pst. comes initially by lifting the minimum limit completely. At the same time, it turns out that almost 70 pst. of which again have more than one position, so many of these will probably already be covered by the government estimate of 2 million. kr first year. I'm going to ask you a little bit about how that 5 million. kr has been obtained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1223	The number of $5 million. kr is derived from the changes in the rules which have been made and from the persons affected. So it is – which I also tried to explain from the pulpit, without having a table here now showing all the incomes – that the less income and position you have, the more coordinated you will be when it comes to occupational retirement provision, which means you won't be left with anything either. This means that you get a small amount in the beginning – and proceeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1229	I have to admit, with all due respect, that I didn't get that much wiser from that answer. We may have to ask the question in writing, because I see that it is complicated. So my question was based on the numbers that the department itself mentions in the proposition, on how many are in different job fractions. But enough about it. Finally, a question of why the state assesses the issue of the minimum limit or not so completely different from the KS and KLP, which, therefore, on their own, chose to completely eliminate the limit. It included a total of 85 000 employees, while in the statutory plans there are only 15,271 employees. What error assessment does the State Council consider that KS and KLP have done in this case, when they chose to completely remove the minimum limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1236	First of all, I record that the representative Christoffersen has changed his view in relation to when we dealt with this matter in Stortinget. Then you were against setting a minimum limit of 20 pst. When the government proposes to set a minimum limit of 20 pst, you're also going to be against it and you're going to set it to zero. I am not saying that KS and KLP have made some mistakes. KS and KLP are free to design their pension products within the limits of the law, and I will give them the freedom and the opportunity to do so. So I believe that in the case of the State pension fund, it makes sense to set a minimum limit, precisely because many of those who wanted a limit of less than 20 pst. had not benefited from it, by the fact that the supplementary pension had been coordinated away – that is, they had not been given anything again. Then I think it makes sense to set a minimum limit of 20 pst, which is also consistent with what is in the private sector. As I said, we should also – at least there is an intention on the part of the government – get a new public service pension that is consistent with the pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1247	I note that the Council of State emphasises that there should be equal rules in the State pension fund and in the private occupational pension schemes. But now it is that the LO has already announced that it may become a topic in the tariff set-up for next year. If there are changes in the private schemes, does that mean that the minimum limit of the State pension fund will automatically follow, so that we have to change the minimum limit of the State pension fund each time there is a change in the private tariff settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1252	Even if you set a minimum limit, you don't necessarily have to. So I don't want to go into the eventualities of the tariff settlement for spring. I think we're going to wait for the tariff statement, and then we're going to see what the tariff statement comes up to. And then we're going to get back to that question, if that were going to be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1257	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1262	I only have a few comments on a few of the previous posts. Right-wing Arve Kambe actually used most of his post to talk about something quite different than the modified minimum limit in the legal arrangements. But it's like today there's one rule in the state, or that is. that one rule consists of several, there is one rule in the municipalities and one rule in the private sector. So how can the representative Kambe make the Workers' Party counterbalance the developments we're talking about with greater equality, when we both reduce today's system from three different to two different? The representative, Mr. Kambe, also stated that it is the pension agreements that do not change jobs. Yes, that may be an argument for someone, but I have also heard about several other things, for example. pay and the content of the job, etc., which determines where people want to work. The representative Kambe also mentioned the sample that the government council has set up as a public pension scheme. Now I don't know so much about the content of the sample's work until it is presented before Christmas, but based on what the representative Kambe said, I interpret it so that his opinion is that the parties agree to cut the pensions in the public sector, in the state sector. I'm not quite sure everyone agrees that it's a correct description. So I also mentioned in the line change here that in the private schemes with a minimum limit of 20 pst. So you're free to go down. So then I noticed what the Council said, that we're going to have to wait for the tariff settlement next year and see what changes might happen, and what will happen when it comes to the public sector. I also noticed the contributions of the representative of Vosskensen, that she characterises the Workers' Party's proposals as 'popular'. It must also mean that KS is Norway’s largest populist organisation, possibly in response to KLP. So in terms of what we've meant before, and what we mean now, it's like we've also registered the premises that were in the Labour Court's 2013 judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1291	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1298	The Labour Party has made a proposal here to investigate with a view to amending the legislation on «widow/widow pension under Chapter 7 of the State Pension Fund Act» and refers to the Chapter of the Inheritance Act. IIIA. We want cohabitation to be treated in the same way as marriage in respect of the right to a widow's/widower's pension. In order to justify the proposal, reference is made to the general development of society in which established consensual relationships are now treated in a growing number of legal areas. The proposers believe that the legislation on widows’/widowers’ pension in the State Pension Fund Act should be amended and adapted to the general social development, in order to make it equal to marriage. The third paragraph of Section 32 of the Code is as follows: ‘The right to a widow’s or a widow’s pension does not apply when the member dies within one year of being entitled to membership of the Pension Fund or after marriage, and the death is due to a disease of which the member suffered or had symptoms at the time of the addition or marriage and which one of the spouses must be presumed to have known. When there are particular reasons for this, the Board of Directors of the Pension Fund may grant a full or partial pension in these cases.’ The time-limit rule, or the standstill rule, is intended to avoid abuse. The proposers believe that the model met well in the time when marriage began to exist, but the situation is different today. We have the public interest as our safety net and the general scheme in our pension system that gives entitlement to a number of benefits, including survivors' benefits. In the last four years, we have implemented several major reforms in our welfare system: the pension reform was introduced in 2011, with new rules for retirement in the population, and new disability benefits were introduced in 2015. As regards changes in pensions and social security systems, adjustments and adjustments are necessary so that no one comes out worse and others look better than what was intended. It's about people's everyday lives and lives. There shall be no major change until it has implications for well-being. In the context of both these reforms, changes and adaptations have been made to the legislation for the corresponding occupational pension schemes. As part of the pension reform and in the light of social developments, the government has set up a public body to review and assess the survivors’ benefits of popular security. The mandate of the sample is to describe and assess the survivors' benefits in public and private terms, and the mandate is also to describe the arrangements for the survivors for employment in the public and private sectors, which complement the schemes of the public interest. As the proposers say, there has been a development in our society that equates marriage with marriage in more and more legal areas. And the rules for widowing/widower's pension in the State pension fund do not take these developments into account. There is a lot of talk that we should go through these rules and adapt them to how the family structures are in our society today, but before we ask for an investigation to assess a change in the rules for widows'/widows' pension in the State pension fund, the majority of the committee believes that it is important to see the benefits of the pension system in the context. Therefore, we should wait for the government-appointed sample’s assessments and recommendations on future survivors’ benefits in public security. This work should be completed before examining the survivors' benefits of the State pension fund and of the other statutory public occupational pension schemes in view of the rights of cohabiters in those schemes. The proposers point out that the purpose of the widow's/widower's pension is partly to compensate for loss of income for the family, and not least that the children will mark the loss of income, not only the widow or the widower. Luckily, we have the fear of the people as our good safety net when misfortune and death strike a family with children. In this context, it is important to point out that there is no requirement for parents to be married in order for a child pension to be granted. Child-retirement is provided to each of the children up to the age of 20 and amounts to 15 pst. on the full-time pension basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1327	As the rapporteur has explained, this case concerns survivors' benefits in the State pension fund for cohabitants. It's been a long time since the Norwegian community viewed cohabitation as something strange, reprehensible, different and inferior compared to marriage. It is also reflected in Norwegian legislation. First out were new rules where cohabitants were equated with couples in situations where it could be an economic advantage to be cohabiters rather than married. Slowly, but surely, there have been changes in the rules where consensual residents also receive the same benefits as married ones, not just the disadvantages. One example is the People's Security Act, where married people and cohabitants have gradually become equal, not only in terms of curtailment of pensions – the negative side of the case – but also in terms of the survival benefit of cohabitants with shared children. Another example is the inheritance law, which confers the right of inheritance on cohabitants with children in common with the deceased. Law on the State pension fund is based on the general development of society as regards the free right of people to choose their own way of life. It is high time that the law was amended in line with what is in force in other legislation. It is difficult to see a good reason why the State pension fund does not recognise cohabitants with common children in line with spouses. The representative's proposal in this case is based on a real event. The case concerns a married couple who lived together for 12 years, with two children, who chose to marry when the illness occurred. They were married only ten days before the mother became alone with the two boys they had together. The general rule of the State pension fund law states that the right to a widow's or widow's pension does not occur when the member dies within one year of the date of the marriage, and the death is due to illness suffered or symptoms by the member at the time of the marriage, and one of the spouses must be presumed to have known. On the other hand, there is an exception rule that says that when specific reasons speak for it, the pension fund board can provide full or partial pensions in such cases. The purpose of the deadline is, of course, to ensure that the loss of income was actually an income to count on for the family. If marriage has been shorter than one year, it is assumed that there is so little provision that the loss of income has a modest impact. In other words, the time-limit rule/car's provision is intended to avoid abuse. The model probably met well in the time when life started after marriage. So there's an exception that says that very special reasons can still give cohabitants the right to a spouse pension. In this case, it requires interaction for several such reasons, such as: that the deceased is a caregiver of a common minor and was in a long-term relationship with the deceased prior to marriage. The threshold for the granting of the derogation has been raised. Of 49 cases in the period 2004–2013, only four were granted. So in this specific case we're talking about here, which has gone all the way to the Supreme Court, there were not twelve years of cohabitation and two common children enough. It illustrates with all clarity that today’s rules have expired and that time is overdue for changes. Abuse of the scheme can easily be achieved by linking the criteria to the succession conditions in order to be equalised with spouses. I think the majority's justification for opposing this proposal is bureaucratic. Reference is made to the fact that a sample has just been set up to assess the survivors' benefits in the social security system, but that the sample is also to look at schemes for the survivors of public and private employment, which complement the schemes of the people's rights. For the Labour Party, this is not a question of bureaucracy and investigations and of waiting for new investigations, but a question of justice, which does not need further investigation beyond that. We cannot see that equality between spouses and cohabitants in the State pension fund, as has already been done in the social security system and in other legislation, will in any way prejudge the conclusions of this sample. There is no equality between married and cohabitants in the State pension fund, which is the mandate of this sample, but the leave-on schemes as such. There is no problem that the sample does not mention and proposes to change the injustice that still exists in the State pension fund, but not in the social security system. So I encourage the other parties to think about and to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1346	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1349	Yes, I address the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1354	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1357	We live in a changing world. Today, it's about as common to be a roommate as being married, even in the case of pensioners. When society changes, it's natural that we also have to consider changing the rules. Ideally, the laws and rules should be changed so early that any problems and distortions do not arise, but we know that it may be difficult to do so. In the case of widows’ and widows’ pensions, it is more and more likely that the pension system has been created with special schemes and is discriminated against, without necessarily meaning. In the Progress Party, we are concerned that the pension should be an individual right. This right shall not be restricted by politicians and others. That's why we're also concerned about people being treated in a non-discriminatory way, regardless of how they choose to live their lives. For example, for many years the party of progress has been battling. for married and cohabiting pensioners not to experience the injustice of curtailment of their pensions. The proposers believe that the curtailment of the pension, of acquired rights, is ok, so here they will continue to discriminate. Therefore, it is a little difficult to take the proposers seriously when they claim that the proposal is intended to guarantee equal rights to groups that have chosen different ways of living their lives. Regardless of the intention of the proposers, we in the Progress Party look forward to the government-designated sample's assessments and recommendations on this issue. Hopefully, the investigation may lead to changes in the rules. We want everyone to get the pension they're entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1366	Firstly, I understand the proposal that is being made. I also understand the frustration that this family, this widow, to which it is referred as part of the justification for the proposal, has experienced. I must also be allowed to pretend to say – when I hear that the Workers' Party is not concerned with bureaucracy and to set up new selections and such things as: Why didn't you change these rules even when you were in government? Why was it at that time that an overall assessment of the survivors' pensions should be carried out in order to coordinate it with the pension reform? And why did you never start that sample? It was already announced in 2011–2012, but it was our government that had to show action in this area as well and start the sample. I believe that there is a need to carry out a broad review and assessment of the survivors' benefits in the pension system, both in the light of the pension reform and in the light of societal developments. I do not initially disagree that there may be grounds for assessing the rights of the cohabitants in the State pension fund and the other public occupational pension schemes. But such changes should be seen in context and investigated together. I think it is resource-intensive and not appropriate to have two processes running parallel to investigating the legacy benefits of the pension system. Therefore, at my discretion, the work now under way should be awaited, the wide range of mandates to go through all the survivors' pension schemes, and in the light of the outcome of the sample, it may also be natural to look at the survivors' benefits of public service pensions and, in this context, to look at any rights of cohabiters in those schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1380	Governments are very concerned about what they consider to be an injustice in the social security system, for example: the basic pension for married and cohabiting spouses compared to lone parents. His party traps in Stortinget have gone so far as to characterize this as an ‘economic attack on marriage and commitment’, and I expect the Council of State to share this view. Can the Council of State then justify why the example underlying this case, 12 years of obliging cohabitation with two children aged six and three, and which does not even fall under the exemption rules of the State pension fund, is not considered to be a similar attack on committed life, with which there is an urgent need to do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1386	I do not fully understand what the representative means by attacking a marriage, which was used. In this case, there's a consensual relationship we're talking about, and not a marriage. I can't see that today's rules in the State pension fund are an attack on marriage. I would also like to believe that any marriage is a commitment – that is why you have entered into the marriage. So what you put in the term "obligatory marriage" is a little bit interesting. Enough about that. I believe it would be natural to adopt a new pension reform, and to go through the survivors' benefits, to look at what survivors' pension we are going to have for the future. Once that sample has been concluded, it is also natural to look at whether to make changes to the State pension fund, and also make changes to those who are cohabiters, and see if you are equal. I'm, as I said, initially not disagree with what's being taken up, but I think it makes sense to have one race on it and not two separate races.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1393	Married couples and cohabitants are too much like-minded in the People's Security Act. When the Council of State uses as an argument against giving the same right in the State pension fund that the matter is for investigation, I really wonder, because the Progress Party is a party that is against all unnecessary forms of bureaucracy and all unnecessary investigations, why a new investigation of a principle that has already been investigated and implemented in the public interest is necessary. Can't just use the arguments you used to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1398	The important thing for the Progress Party was in opposition and is in government to show both the power of action and the ability to achieve a fair pension system. That is why we have chosen to follow up, as stated in the Government Declaration, and complete the pension reform, a pension reform that the Progress Party was initially opposed and voted against. Then I believe it is reasonable and effective to do what the red-greens tried to push under the carpet and hide in drawers and not pick up, but allowed these cases to continue. I believe that when we are going to review the survivors' benefits against the pension reform, it makes sense to do so collectively and to consider both the unfortunate consequences of today's scheme and good arrangements to look at what we are going to have in the future in terms of survivors' pensions. We've put a sample of that down. They're going to give us good answers on how it can be done, and then we're going to follow it up from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1403	Basically, I want to distance myself from the fact that the red-greens tried to hide anything in a drawer. There were many things that had to be investigated and in place of changes after the Stortingen made its decision on the pension reform. It has come in order, unfortunately, on the blue-blue watch – I would like to see that it was still the red-green watch. But enough about it. I wonder if the lack of enthusiasm of the Council of State for the non-discrimination of cohabitants in the State pension fund compared to equality between married and cohabitants in popular security may have something to do with the electoral potential. The state pension fund we're talking about here is not that many, so it might not be so dangerous to show lack of action to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1410	First of all, I have some problems taking the question seriously. We're committed to equalizing everyone in the pension system. But I am glad that the representative of Christoffersen makes it so clear that they have not hidden anything in a drawer. There were many things that had to be investigated, these were complex things. When we have initiated and done what the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government believe was reasonable in keeping this thing together, that we had to investigate, it becomes completely incomprehensible to me that the same representative operates and criticises the Advance Party, which is in government, in order to deal with the matter immediately when you came into government, and carry out the investigation that the Workers' Party believes was sensible to do. I think the Labour Party in the government would have done the exact same thing itself. You want to get a fair, comprehensive pension system that hangs together. It is the responsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1417	Once you got to the government offices – yes, wasn't that how that sample was reduced this fall? But I still want to try – one last time – to drill into what it is like to cohabit with an obliging cohabitation with a common child as per today for married people in the State pension fund. For the question of equality between the two groups, you can do it with a pen stroke. It does not interfere with the investigation of the type of survivor's pension to be provided in the future. Could it not have been a great gesture when we see the concrete and negative results for single families of today's legislation, simply to correct that injustice quite quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1424	As I have repeated several times: yes, there is a non-discrimination in popular fear. I am glad that we have a non-discrimination there, which I have also repeated several times in my answers. I do not initially disagree with the fact that you should also have the same equal treatment in the Staten pension fund. That is why this work is under way. Therefore, it is important to see it in a context of survivors' benefits collectively, for this is about survivors' benefits. I think that's going to be the best way to do it, so you don't re-create new holes, new balances, which make others look worse. This should be seen in a context. It's what this government has chosen to do. We've reduced the sample rate relatively quickly. The previous government assumed in 2011 that it would start to do so. When we got into the offices in 2013, there was no person who could sit in that sample, asked. So we had to start the job from scratch and get that sample in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1429	From the Council's last response, we can at least see that there is a positive attitude towards thinking about an increased equality between married and cohabiting with common children and commitment to life, in the State pension fund. But the Council of State continues to refer to the sample, so then my last question is: When can those who cohabit in the hopeless situation that we have seen here expect that injustice to go away?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1434	First of all, I gave the positive signals already when that matter became known in the media in June well over a year ago. It was probably in June 2014 the matter to which the representative refers became known in the media. When a selection – and it certainly knows the representative well – that has been in a government-managing party and has been sitting on the Stortinget for a government-managing party for many, many years – delivers its position, we will naturally send it to the hearing, we will of course make a quick presentation of a case for the Stortinget, and then it is up to the Stortinget what decisions the Stortinget takes, and what timetable the Stortinget has for its proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1441	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1457	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1464	We now have a proposal for a representative to secure pensions in the event of privatisation. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the pension rights of employees in establishments transferred from the public sector to private operators on a competitive basis. The proposal sets out some of the challenges posed by competitive outsourcing. But the Socialist Left makes proposals mix some concepts, and I think it's important to be clear about the difference between privatisation and outsourcing. There is a difference in substance, and that is why I also assume that it is the competitive outsourcing of the proposers who believe, even though they use the concepts a little around each other. But I'm not going to hide that this is a matter that shows a clear distinction between the opposition and the cooperation parties. For what I thought was agreed in political Norway was that we should have free wage formation between the parties. But here you want this hall to go in and over the free formation of wages, which would be a violation of the wage creation you've had. In principle, there is a cross-political agreement that employees' rights should be safeguarded, including in the case of transfers of activities. In the past, no later than 2011, it has been assessed whether tariff rules on pension schemes should be included in the rights resulting from the transfer of activities, but there has been no political majority in favour of such rights, nor the time when the Socialist Left Party was in government. The opposition appears to close the eyes of the large differences between public and private pension schemes. Nor do the proposers seem to care that, if this proposal had been adopted, businesses could end up with several different and partly different pension schemes for their employees, which would change the principle of equal pay for equal work, i.e. a discrimination between two people who carry out the same job in the same way. Different arrangements are not just a problem for those who are to direct their business. It is also a problem for employees. The most appropriate is to harmonise pension systems in the public and private sectors. Many have argued for this for a long time, and I am therefore pleased that this is clearly mentioned in the Sundvolden Declaration. It says: ‘This implies, inter alia, finding solutions with the social partners that reduce the differences between private and public sector pension systems.’ When this is put in place, the challenge that the proposers point to will be less, because we are all committed to ensuring a safe and worthwhile old age for everyone in society. One of the challenges is workers who cross the distinction between the private and public sectors, which we should often have had much greater transitions between them. This challenge is not particularly great where they cross the distinction due to the transfer of activities. The challenge is far more general than that. That is why the proposal we are discussing today is not going to be appropriate. But what I'm jumping over a little bit is the proposers who are now creating the impression that they care a lot about future pensioners. As you know, today's opposition in Stortinget does not want to deal with the unsocial curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners today. It is very special to promote this proposal at the same time as voting in favour of a proposal which means that the country's married and cohabiting pensioners will receive DKK 8 000 less annually than they will achieve, with the government's proposals. However, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the age pensions from popular security are the property of the pensioners and must not be subject to arbitrary, policy-specific interventions such as curtailment, adjustment to marital status or life expectancy. But that is not what concerns the proposers in the matter we are dealing with today. They are more concerned about making adjustments because today there are two systems that are not harmonised, which I hope we can eventually get broad support to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1486	There is an important issue in this proposal for a representative. We have seen too many examples of government employees losing accrued pension rights when their jobs are put on offer and privatised. This often applies to women, who make up 70 pst. by civil servants, many of them in so-called comfort-and-carry professions, with heavy physical work and low wages, in other words, the labourers, such as: The AFP scheme was meant for. But suddenly they can stand without rights to early retirement and with weakened rights for the rest. In the autumn, the trade union has launched a campaign in which two women have stood up. Help nurse Ellen Arnbret joined Aleris when Oslo municipality privatized Lambertseter's nursing home about ten years ago. When Aleris took over, the salary was equal to that of municipal employees. Since then, wages have gradually fallen behind and are now at NOK 62 000 below the employee of the Municipality of Oslo with the same competence and seniority. The current employer has a contribution pension that pays up to 77 years. If she had continued in the municipality, she would have received a occupational pension out of her life. In addition, coordination rules between the private AFP and the rights that she saved while in municipal employment will mean that this savings also fall in value. All in all, she comes out with a much worse pension than if she had worked in the municipality up to the age limit. In addition, there are poorer and missing disability and survivors' pensions, as well as group life insurance. Another example is reindeer Arnhild Sundstrom from Tromsø. The account for privatisation shows that she, over 55 years old, is hit extra hard. She falls out of the AFP scheme for the civil servants. She is not enrolled in the AFP scheme for her private life because it is less than seven years old until she turns 62. It only gives her a loss of 1489 000 kroner in a contractual pension. In addition, the value of the pension savings she has already earned in municipal employment will be less valuable. In total, it means an additional pension loss of approximately NOK 12000 each year during the years she is going to be a pensioner, and she is not getting rid of an early retirement pension at 62 years if she wishes. Fortunately for her, Tromsø received a new city council in the election, and the privatisation was reversed. The Labour Party has repeatedly demonstrated the impact on employees as arguments against privatisation and outsourcing of public services. It is best for employees and for users that, in core areas such as health, school and care for the elderly, there should be good public services covering all. We do not want tendering procedures where it is competitive on the pay and working conditions of employees. Unfortunately, not all are as sensible as the City Council in Tromsø. Contests are likely to continue to take place both in the country and in the municipality. However, competition should take place on a level playing field. Pensions may represent a significant cost difference when public services are put out of competition, as shown by the two examples mentioned above. The Labour Party has therefore chosen that we will consider how to prevent the use of public sector tenders from weakening the pension conditions of employees. We have also established this together with LO in our joint professional policy platform for 2015–2019. An additional element, which is not included in the SV's proposal, is that the government earlier this year set up a sample to assess the possible government coverage of the historical pension costs of NPISHs. Many of the non-profit actors providing services to the public have traditionally had public occupational pensions for their employees. However, costs have gradually grown to such an extent that many of the ideal actors assess their ability to provide such services for the future. A lot of people will lose out on that. In addition, several organisations have changed employers’ organisations to enter into cheaper pension schemes. The employees will lose weight on that. Had we had an overview of the costs and good suggestions on how this problem can be solved in concrete terms, we might have voted in favour of the SV's proposal today, but we do not have such an overview. How much does it cost? Who's going to pay? For this reason, the Workers' Party has made its own proposal, asking the government to make an assessment of how to prevent the use of public sector tenders, including the transfer of activities and the change of supplier, from weakening the pension conditions of employees. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1503	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1506	There is broad agreement that the rights of employees should be guaranteed by outsourcing and by transfer of activities. Such protection is enshrined in the Working Environment Act. It states that employees have the right to maintain employment and to maintain the working conditions of the new employer. There are rights which apply regardless of the party from which the business is transferred and to which party the business is transferred, whether public or private. Pension schemes in the private sector are established, organised and financed by individual enterprises. The entity may choose to set up a pension scheme for employees under the Enterprise Act, the Pensions Act or the Occupational Pensions Act. proportionality and equal treatment of employees are required. The arrangements may provide favourable tax treatment. The regulation contributes to the retirement of employees in private enterprises by compulsory occupational retirement provision law while providing incentives to help ensure further earnings for employees. In the public sector, there is a uniform system of occupational retirement provision, with an old-age pension based on a gross guarantee. The pension is calculated on the basis of the final salary at the time of retirement. Very different occupational pension schemes in the public and private sectors are unfortunate. It helps to combat the mobility of labour between sectors. Public service pensions have some weaknesses, including: there are too weak labour incentives in the current system. Work has been started with the social partners to find better pension solutions for public employees, including: the reduction of obstacles to mobility. Public sector AFP design is part of this work. The social partners agree that the transition to a new AFP scheme in the private sector will be evaluated by 2017. It would then be natural to look at the rules of transfer of activities in relation to older workers and the AFP scheme. While there are several good reasons for harmonising occupational pension schemes, a system of multiple cross-border pension schemes proposed by SV may lead to undertakings being deprived of some of the control of their pension costs. Alternatively, it would mean that the cost effects of the cross-cutting scheme would have to be balanced by changing service provision for workers who are not members of the cross-cutting scheme. A regulatory requirement to establish a specific cross-border pension scheme would not only imply a structural change of the occupational pension area in the private sector, but would also violate the principle of self-regulation in the Norwegian labour market model. The majority of the Committee does not recommend a legislative amendment opening up a cross-border occupational pension scheme for several public services. This will mean substantial changes in both private and public occupational pension schemes. In the case of the AFP scheme, referred to here, for older workers, the transition to a new AFP scheme shall be evaluated by the social partners by 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1523	I would also like to thank SV for bringing up an important matter. Pensions are large amounts of money – there are large incomes for the employees who get it, and there are large expenditures for the employers who have to pay it. It has, as many have pointed out, been of great importance to the competitive situation in discussions on the competitive environment. It is true that the Progress Party is not a tone-setting force for privatisation of welfare services – that is right. They are not a tone-setting force for privatisation of welfare services, but for private services to serve the well-being services that are publicly funded. I agree that this is an important clarification. The representative, Wiborg, said that it is not important for the Progress Party to overestimate the free formation of wages. If there is something special about Norway, the formation of wages is regulated. There has been a long political dispute about the regulation of wage formation, and it will continue. There will be a dispute as to whether we should regulate and the content of the regulation. The Progress Party is talking against regulation, which will provide the necessary security for the workers, in a situation where, in our opinion, it is necessary to have a well-organised working life, even better organised working life than we have today. There are many of the members of the Progress Party who have a weak position in the labour market. I know a lot of them, I know a lot of people who are strong supporters of the Progress Party, and who have a very weak position in the workplace at the same time. I hope that the opinions of the representative of Wiborg can make more people notice this and discuss in the discussions you have in the café or in the lunch break in your working life, whether the policy of the Progress Party, which is basically for the free formation of wages, is for the benefit of those who have a weak position in the world of work. It's incredibly important that we have a well-organised working life, and the theme here is what's the competitive situation in transferring activities. A person has clear rights to retain employment – wages and working conditions – in the case of transfers, while the theme now is pension schemes. As stated in the statement, since 2011, it was assessed whether tariff rules on pension schemes should be included in the above-mentioned entitlements, i.e. those relating to pay and working conditions, but it has not been implemented. It's essential that this is done. It is essential that one does so, because not least in the health sector there are many discussions around the municipalities about what is the wisest way to do it. And there should be no different pension schemes that should be the main argument for one to do one or the other. I would say that what is needed in the public sector is to go through organisation, culture and management. There are so many possibilities for improvement in the public sector in terms of organisation, culture and management, that, if not least the rapporteurs and those in charge around Municipality-Norway take it seriously, very much of the whole discussion about putting health out of business is gone. Finally, I would just like to say that the Central Party will support proposal No. 2, from SV, at the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1542	I want to start by recording SV's suggestions. It is a proposal that we have chosen to promote because we see that many today lose pensions by privatisation and outsourcing, and because we see that it is a matter of greater topicality when a privatisation policy is promoted by the government in blue municipalities. A study carried out on behalf of the NSF, the Norsk Sykepleierförbund, in the previous municipal government period, shows that the majority of all local government representatives from the Right and the Progress Party believe that it is okay that private operators win tenders even when the salary, pension and working conditions of employees are weakened. There is little reason to believe that that view has changed in the municipal government period that we are now in. The examples of workers affected by such a fundamental political vision and the kind of thinking around competition are many. There are health professionals who experience that the nursing home they work on is privatized just before they should have left the AFP, without having the chance to do so because they lose their right to it, even if the need for a worn body is the same. The AFP scheme in the private sector has an absolute requirement to have been in business with private AFP for at least seven of the last nine years before the age of 62. As a result, many lose their right to leave, and many lose a lot of money. The only hope is that the public goes in and compensates for losses. That's what we've done in Oslo, Austevoll and other places in the country. That's how I mean you can't have it. According to the Trade Union, many employees lose million in future pension payments when jobs are outsourced. We also see the cleaning of defence buildings being offered. Although there is a screening system for, or an agreement with, the oldest workers, many lose a lot. SV believes that a pensioner is completely unreasonable in the event of privatisation, which is actually taking place. We will make the necessary changes and the necessary steps to ensure that workers do not face a poorer age because the political privatisation tool is large. Then there are several things that can and should be done. One of them is promoted in the proposal today through proposals for a legislative amendment. Then I record that there have not been any changes to the law before, the reason why a change to the law cannot be supported in this case. In Swedish, on the other hand, we think it is very gratifying that the proposal gets very broad support in the trade movement, but we had hoped for broader support in the Stortinget, both from parties that I believe are not really supporting the removal of a pension by privatisation, and from parties that otherwise demonstrate fair competition and diversity in services as important. I would like – and I am going to put a great deal of effort into working for – a large number of people who could at least gather to say that the contracting authorities are not going to help reduce pensions, wages and working conditions, and hope that the workers are involved in that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1559	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1562	When I hear the debate, I have a small feeling that this is a debate about whether you are in favour of or against competitive outsourcing. Let me make it crystal clear from my side that I am too competitive. I think it is good with competition and have always been in favour of competition. I think it can help create better welfare services for people where people live. The great public responsibility, whether municipal or state, creates good solutions for people based on the needs of people. The major challenge here is that there are large differences between private and public service pensions and the public and private pension systems. After we implemented the pension reform, which came into force in 2011, we have in many ways three pension schemes: we have one pension for the population, we have one for the private sector, and we have one for the public sector. That's why I think it's important the work that's now being done to try and get public service pensions to match the pension reform and the intentions that were stuck there. For those who want to be the big losers – victims of the big robbery – if you can't do that, those who belong to Bergstø's own annual coal, and younger ones, who are in the public sector, who don't want a gross guarantee with two thirds of final salary as a pension. The dividing numbers, the life-age adjustment, bring you down to a pension rate of perhaps between 51 and 53 pst. There's the big wallpaper. Therefore, it will be absolutely essential and important that we now be able to bring about a more consistent pension system. When I see the proposal from SV, I also think that the proposal poses little problem to the legal space for such a change of law. In that case, a number of legislation must be examined. This applies, as in other cases. are mentioned, the Working Environment Act, rules for the transfer of activities, rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts, in the case of EEA legislation, and in the case of insurance legislation. These things are not at all taken into account in the proposal for a representative. AFP is something that has been negotiated between the parties. The parties have said that they want to evaluate the AFP in the private sector during 2017. I and the department have made ourselves available and said that of course we put our things at the disposal to help, if there's anything we can help with, in such an investigation. I also think it is such an evaluation that is going to take place. In addition to the private and public sector transition, it may also apply to the private sector AFP scheme as it is currently negotiated by the parties, approved and adopted by the Stortingen after the salary settlement in 2008. You can also find yourself in a situation where, like a 15-year-old, you come from one private enterprise without AFP to an enterprise with AFP and get sick for a year, which means that you can't get seven out of the last nine years and thus fall out of the AFP scheme. There are many things that need to be looked at. That is what I and the government have said that we are willing to look at. We also have to look at it in a broad context. The key is to bring about a more coherent pension system between the private and public sectors. We are doing that, and I also feel that there are more, and that the maturity around such a discussion is more present now than it has ever been before. Now I'm not going to pre-empt the events, there's a working group that works and is going to report in a short time. The social partners have been very much involved in that work. They've made their recordings, brought their things that need to be looked at. I feel that we have a good drive forward, and that it is a good work that is being done in that area. Here are many proposals from the representative who are not well-founded. In the end, I noticed that the representative said that we cannot have it as compensation for loss, and refers to, among other things. Austevoll and Oslo. I would like to draw them out as two good examples, which have been able to maintain the pension rights of employees also by outsourcing competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1583	The leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, characterised the pension reform as a state elder in his 2009 national meeting. In the same context, the Council of State – then the representative of the State – stated that he would weaken public pensions. I wonder: is there a deterioration in the pension rights of government employees that is the objective of the investigation that the Council of State is about to present?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1588	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1593	I thank you for the answer and have noted it behind my ear, and then we will see what happens when the investigation is presented. But if that answer so decided is no, I would like to refer to another passus in Siv Jensen's national meeting speech. She paid special attention to the position of women, and 70 pst. of the approximately 600 000 to 700000 public servants, women. Now the Council of State said that the SV's proposal was a simplification of a very complex situation which was not at all problematic in the proposal. The Labour Party has also made a proposal on the matter, in which we simply ask the Council of State to investigate how to prevent these women from losing much of their rights in the privatisation of public services. But the Council of State is also not willing to take a positive view of such an investigation, if I have understood correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1598	We are doing a good job of reviewing public service pensions. You want to, along with the parties, touch a lot of different questions there, and we have to get back to that once we get that far. Why are many women losing in the public sector? Well, there's two things that make a lot of women lose. More women than men work part-time, and more men than women have positions of leadership, which means that they have a slightly higher pension base. These are two important factors that make you have differences in your pension. I would rather encourage more women to work full time. We need to facilitate better full-time cultures, which in turn will provide better service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1607	It is so interesting that the Council of State mentions more women in part-time and more men in leadership positions. There was the opportunity when the government recently presented a gender equality message to the Stortinget. But there were no powerful signs of action to change that relationship in that message. It has received relatively massive criticism. I want to go back to the state council's cash no that the investigation that is coming soon does not have the effect of weakening pensions for government employees. Can I interpret the Council of State as saying in his reply to the Committee that it is unfortunate that differences in public and private occupational pensions hinder the mobility of labour between sectors, that it means that, combined with the previous cash no, the Council of State has plans to break up and improve private sector pension schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1614	First of all, both I and the government show good action to get more women in positions of leadership. I guess it's the first time we've had a woman as head and director of Nav, and we've done more than one job for women. So to the question, the reason why there are differences here is that there are huge differences between the private and public sectors in pensions. If you really want to lose public service pension, it's if you keep the rules as they do today. It is those who were born in 1974, which is my own year's coal, and later, who will be the great losers. They won't get two thirds of their final salary. The supplier’s adjustment will result in a level of compensation of around 50-53 pst. If Christoffersen believes that there is a better solution than getting a solution that allows them to earn more pension, where every year counts, I disagree with Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1623	Let me first clarify: when I said that we can't have it like that, given the examples from Austevoll and Oslo, I think it can't be that way that it should be up to each municipality's willingness to compensate for losses. It creates little security for workers. Other factors that create a lack of security are the unique positiveness of the Council of State to the outsourcing of competition. Therefore, I wonder: Does the Council of State believe that competitive tendering is good even when tenders are won by weakening pensions, wages and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1630	I believe that tenders are good. I think it's good with competitive outsourcing. If the outsourcing leads to, in this case, better welfare services for people who need welfare services, I think that's good. At the same time, we also have different pension schemes in the private sector. There are many people who change jobs from one enterprise to another, who have different pension plans, so there is nothing new about pension issues or the working life. However, one of the most important things to do in order to achieve more equality is to achieve – as stated in the Government Platform – a more harmonised public service pension that is in line with the intentions of the pension reform, a pension reform that SV introduced in its time in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1635	I also find it interesting that the Council of State mentions Austevoll and Oslo as very good examples because they have compensated for future losses, while we see that the government, when you have the opportunity to do so, does not do so, as is the case with the cleaners in the Defence Building. They have now found that the job has been sent out for tender, and there will be a great deal of loss in future pension payments. Nor does anything indicate that there is any better offer in terms of security that is possible to recover than what is being delivered today. My question is: why does the Council of State think it is reasonable for municipalities to compensate for the loss of future pension payments, while the government is not willing to do so for the people to whom the jobs have been sent out by tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1642	First of all, I think we should have some understanding of the pension system. When you have a business transfer, it's also like today that we have compulsory occupational pension. You have different solutions there, so you can't say that you want to lose or win so much or so – that's what you choose. They can then choose whether you want a retirement pension, a retirement pension or a occupational pension — that is, the law you use. It will give you different calculations, and there have also been cases where you could have improved your pension. So it is not said that in any situation you will lose. It is also wrong, because it is asked which of the offers the company actually deals with. So, in the case of Austevoll: I think it's joyous. The progress party steered Austevoll, compensated, showed good employer policy. The Progress Party shows good employer policy in the municipalities – I am pleased – and shows that good solutions are found for employees and the best service provision for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1655	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1660	Finally, it turns out that the state does not compensate, when the Advance Party is in government and could do so. We have some important welfare services, and we have important areas for which the public sector is responsible. The question is, do we really think that the cleaners and the maids have too good a pension? Do they have too much pay? I don't think so. SV doesn't think so. They deserve every penny they get, and more. I heard the Prime Minister's New Year's speech. There she referred to what she called the heroes of care. These are the heroes we're talking about right now. It is these women – for it is mostly ladies – who work well, often, both in the clean and in the care of the public sector. Thanks for that from the Progress Party and the Right, the jam is that they will be put out to tender and perhaps lose hundreds of thousands in pensions, and even in wages, at least if you put off competition once and twice. It has shown the experience here from Oslo. I have said to some local rapporteurs who have smelled this proposal: then you take my hand and we will go to the hospital. And then you see a help nurse in your eyes, and then you say, you have too high a pension. There's no one who's been with me yet, to say it like that. That's what this is about: if we really intend in the future to appreciate those who are going to do these important jobs in the future, of which we know we need a lot more. We have to lure many more of our young people into these professions. And the jam must also be run clean in many places. It's a job that's very heavy, very responsible, because cleaning is important. There are significant adverse effects of not being done properly, especially in care and health services. Then we actually have to appreciate these jobs when they are done, and don't put them on the offer, with the result that the pension goes down, and the pay goes down as well. I am very disappointed that the Labour Party is not involved in this proposal, I have to say. I had really expected that after the discussions we have had in the election campaign, and all of them – to say that – the flag fans The Workers' Party have done in this case that they agree with SV that this is wrong, and that is unnecessary. It's wild. The nurses' union has asked the representatives of the local government of the People's Party and the Right whether it is okay that these women go into pay and retirement, and that is what they think. Because they think it's more important to give tax relief to the fift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1679	It was the last post of Andersen's representative that made me draw. First of all, it does not seem that you have read the starting point of the case and the comments, because it is – as I was also in my first post – a difference in substance between privatisation and the outsourcing of competition. Here we're talking about the pension in the first place and we don't have a general debate about competitive outsourcing. But I have no problem having a general debate on competitive outsourcing, because I am positive about competitive outsourcing. I myself have been a local politician and have been part of the competition for many different services – with great luck. Then it is very interesting that the representative Karin Andersen knows better than the employees themselves, who in employee studies answers that they were more satisfied with their job after it was exposed to competition. The representative of the Socialist Left Party may feel that the individual employee does not know best himself, but both I and the Advance Party believe that the individual employee himself knows best what is best for them. But some of the interesting thing about the debate is the level of pay in many women’s dominated professions, and the Progress Party fully agrees that the level of pay in several women’s dominated professions is too low. There's something the Progress Party has picked up several times. But then we have to go in and see: what is the basic equality in the women's dominated professions? There are often professions where the public is responsible, where there is little competition, and where you cannot easily switch to another employer if you are not satisfied. So it's the system that has now led many women's dominated professions to rely on in terms of wages. The same system wants the representative Karin Andersen even more. As far as employees are concerned, it can be seen by outsourcing competition that there are also several cases where employees have received a better pension scheme than they had. We have examples of employees getting better pay and working conditions than they had. So the picture here is not black and white. Then I can't push myself – and I expect the representative Karin Andersen to redraw: one thing she doesn't mention when we're talking about retirement, is that she's for an unsocial shortening in the pension of married and cohabiting pensioners, just the people we're talking about here right now. Karin Andersen and the Socialist Left Party think it's okay that they get $8,000 less in pensions every year just because they're married or cohabiting. That's what Andersen's going to jump over. I see time beginning to run out, so I'm not going to go into all the unsocial tax proposals of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1692	It doesn't help if you try to conceal what's going on, whether it's a competitive outing or a tender. What this is all about is that when you put off competition, for example. Old-age care and cleaning are the consequence of employees falling into retirement because they get a pension agreement that is not as good as it is in the public sector. It is a reality. The major trade unions have surveyed this, and the realities are there. Wiborg now refers to examples, that there is an example – I don't know what had been put on the market, and that had gone into retirement, that example I would like to see documented. It may be interesting to see if there is someone who has a better pension agreement than the government, but essentially it has better government pension schemes than private ones. That was exactly what was the line exchange here between the representative Christoffersen and the council, where the council replied in cash that he did not want pensions in the public sector to be negotiated, and the consequences of it must be that all the private pensions are lifted. Otherwise it can't be the same -- it's completely impossible to do it: either you take one down, or the other one up, so that it gets more similar. This case should have resulted in everyone agreeing that at least the government should be asked to set up a system where business transfer laws were used consistently, so that wage and pension agreements could be maintained on a competitive basis. For this is about professions that should be valued at least in line with what we are doing today. That's what this is about. It is a political question – whether we want those who work in the clean and in the care sector to be thanked for getting worse conditions, because that is essentially what happens when you launch a competition. And that's wild, I see, from the Advancement Party and the Right, they think it's okay. Their local politicians also clearly respond that they think it is entirely right that this affects the pay and pension conditions of these women – as it is essentially – and people should notice that this is the case. Then the representative of Wiborg makes a visit to the matter of co-ordination of pensions for married and co-residents. Yes, it's a different matter than what we're dealing with here now. This is a matter if not – to put it that way – to establish even more new injustices. And then we'll see how one can gradually, when the time is right for it, correct other injustices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1703	It was the representative of Wiborg who made me take the floor, because I think there is a need to explain some of the statements that came. This is about privatising businesses and how pension conditions are there. When Wiborg then draws the comparison that it can mean that low-paid women get higher wages, I think it requires an explanation. It was interesting to hear here earlier today that you are concerned that the free formation of wages should be there, and that there are organisations that are negotiating wages. So how could this privatisation lead to a higher salary in the low-wage women's dominated professions? I'd like to hear Wiborg say something more about that. The same applies to the interesting point raised here, that there are enterprises that have left a government defined benefit scheme and obtained a better pension agreement once they have been privatised. It might also be interesting to hear a little bit more about it. At least it's very rare that we hear about it. So finally, it's interesting to hear the debate that is, because in this room I've been to some debates where you have to take into account the ideal businesses. Then it is important to protect them and to take care of them, we hear from the bourgeois parties. But how do you think you're going to get it up in such a situation where, according to how I understood the Council of State, you don't intend to fix anything in particular in the private pension agreements? It's a little hard to figure out how to relate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1714	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1728	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1735	The Committee has examined the SV's draft representative on child poverty and we have chosen to monitor the progress of the Committee's work on the State Budget since the proposals have budgetary implications. This has led to a thorough examination of the Committee, and I thank the Cooperation Committee. There is a cross-political consensus that we need to strengthen our efforts to prevent children from living in poverty. The Committee therefore emphasises that we need to pursue a policy where we are working as much as possible and that we need to design tools that build up under this. But not everyone has the opportunity to participate in the labour market, and in the Committee's view, it is necessary that we have sound systems that ensure a decent income base for all. I am very pleased that a joint committee has just made this clear. The technical definition of poverty is the percentage of median income in the country. So we can discuss whether this is a consistent measurement parameter. With such a definition, cash payments will reduce poverty, while free kindergarten, SFO and leisure activities will not affect the situation. However, the Committee notes that kindergarten and common schools are arenas that contribute to reducing social disparities and that it is necessary to allocate these resources in order to facilitate these arenas to have such a function in the future. The National Audit Office has examined the work on child poverty in Norway and says that it is largely about children who experience being excluded from social contexts because of the economic situation in the family. The majority of families with children who experience poverty come from immigrant groups. In this context, there is reason to recall that children living in Norway are generally in good health. There is also reason to recall that most European countries are now experiencing the arrival of children’s families from Syria and Afghanistan in order to give their children opportunities to grow up in societies with much greater security than they experience in their home country. Poverty in a war - torn Syria is something other than poverty in Norway. For the Workers' Party, it will always be possible to support itself through work that is our main political objective. In order to achieve this objective, we need to facilitate the provision and well-being of those who need additional assistance into the labour market. Then kindergarten and school are important. Equally important is to ensure that children who have parents who are unable to work have the same opportunities. Here the political parties separate layers in terms of practical policy. For it does not help to provide a good action plan against child poverty when, a few months earlier, proposals for a large cut in the children’s supplement were presented in the disability benefit. The cut was at 590 million. kr. And it does not help the poor children to reduce housing support, nor does it help an unemployed parent to cut back on support, as the government has proposed. It is quite difficult to see the context of government policy in the area of child poverty. Those who have the most, get more through large tax relief, and those who have the least, get less – almost 2 billion. For the unemployed. There are many families of children among them. The proposal to cut the children’s supplement into disability is a direct attack on families with children. And we can't escape the fact that it's among the immigrant population we find most families with the combination children and low income. Then it becomes interesting to listen to the government parties here in Stortinget when the policy of those who are on asylum receptions and are to be included in Norwegian society is to be designed in the weeks to come. On asylum recipients today, many children with parents need everyone's attention, not just today, not just tomorrow, but for a very long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1750	As the rapporteur said, there is a great deal of consensus across the political parties here in Stortinget that we want to work to improve the situation of children and young people growing up in what we call poor families. One of the most important things we do as politicians is to facilitate children and young people getting a safe and healthy upbringing, good development opportunities through a good school and the right to education. The government takes seriously that many children grow up in families with weak economies, which exclude participation in important social arenas. This is why the government has put forward a strategy against child poverty called ‘Children living in poverty’. Proposals point to child welfare as one of the main means of contributing to redistribution and combating poverty. They propose a number of proposals to raise the level of child protection. In this respect, I have to say that the government has set up a public body to look at support for families with children. In particular, the committee shall consider whether to change the child’s rights. The committee’s recommendations will provide a basis for assessing any changes to the scheme. I just have to say that I think it is a little strange that SV did not do anything about the child's fear when they spent eight years in government, as they believe this is such an important measure. They went high on the track and said that they should eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. But I think that child poverty is not eliminated by a pen stroke, nor is it removed by increasing child welfare. Actions need to be much more comprehensive and targeted in several areas. The strategy developed by the government is based on the fact that child poverty is a complex problem and that all departments and agencies responsible for children and families need to coordinate efforts and measures to reduce child poverty. SV uses as a justification that the 2015 government budget led to a difficult situation for children in poor families due to a decrease in the child supplement for disabled parents. I think this is both sought out and somewhat misleading, because SV does not mention all the targeted strengths of children and young people in low-income families that were adopted in the same budget. Conversion and reduction in one area must be seen in the context of reinforcements in other areas. In 2014, a national grant scheme against child poverty was introduced, which was continued and strengthened in 2015. The scheme helps children and young people living in families with a weak economy to participate in leisure activities, to receive support for equipment and for quotas, and to allow families to have access to holiday experiences. In the 2015 budget, the government strengthened the offer of free core time in the kindergarten for four- and five-year-olds from low-income families. In addition, a social profile was introduced to the nursery payment, with moderation schemes in the nursery price. With effect from 1 May of this year, all families with less income than NOK 473 000 per year have had a reduced nursery price. The government has also targeted the use of the support schemes, so that the schemes address children and young people with the most needs. This is why the grant schemes in secondary schools have been amended. The scholarship rates have been increased by 50 pst. and is now given only to students who come from families where the total income of mother and father is low. This means an increase of NOK 10,000 more a year for those students who really need the scholarship. Today, we adopt a change in the Social Services Act which means that municipalities should keep out children's income from work on leisure and school holidays when assessing the application for financial benefit. The aim is to help children in families receiving financial benefits, in line with other children, to improve their own situation through income from work and gain useful experience from working life. As regards the housing support scheme, the Government of the ‘Children living in poverty’ strategy has indicated that it will consider further strengthening housing support. Finally, the most important means of combating child poverty and combating social exclusion is to grow up in families where one or both parents have income-generating jobs. The government is therefore particularly concerned about facilitating the entry into work of more people with full or partial working skills. It's the best thing for mom and dad, and that's the best thing for the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1776	In May this year the government distributed a total of 137 million. for various local responses to child poverty in Norway. All municipalities and voluntary organisations had the opportunity to apply for funding for good holiday and leisure activities, to apply for funding for loan schemes for equipment for sports and recreational activities, and to ensure that children were able to participate in activities, regardless of their parents’ economy. Indeed, good experiences in childhood are important, and it is important to dampen children’s experiences of family poverty. Applications varied widely in character and scope, which naturally also applied to the size of the grant. For example, the Red Cross was given. many millions for their good holiday offers, while many of the smallest grants went to the purchase of free lending equipment in municipalities. Trysil was such a municipality. Trysil received NOK 60000 in the year for the purchase of skates and helmets for a free lending scheme for children, and last year they got NOK 100000 for the purchase of skis and ski equipment. This is a very good offer locally. I am pleased that we can stimulate such measures that allow all children to participate in leisure activities, regardless of whether their parents have poor advice or not. One of the most important things we can do to reduce poverty in Norway is, as has been said before, to allow more people to live on their own income. At the same time, we can, and must, do much to reduce children's experience of poverty. In the Health Declaration, we are clear and clear that we want to lift people out of poverty. It is an entire subchapter of the Sundvolden Declaration that deals only with action against poverty. Many of these measures have already been implemented, some are now being implemented, and the latter will be implemented before the next elections. There are also measures to combat child poverty in particular. The case that is being dealt with today is also such an example. We make kindergarten cheaper for families with poor advice, we set up local schemes for equipment lending and quota support. This will help children to participate in the same activities as their friends. I have not yet mentioned the action plan on child poverty that the cooperation parties launched this year. For the first time, we have a solid political focus on child poverty. In the past, the focus has been on poverty in general, and even there has been very little success in the previous two ageing periods. As mentioned earlier, we all remember the SV's promise to remove poverty with a pen stroke. At least it didn't happen in the eight years before this government. But I hope we can now look forward, and I hope that we can now stand together to help as many families as possible to work out of poverty. I hope no children have to experience poverty, and I will not stop looking for solutions, for no children deserve to live in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1791	I think it is a very important thematic SV to address in its proposal for a representative. There are many good proposals here, both in the proposal for a representative and in the vote. Several of the proposals are also fully in line with the Christian People's Party programme. I want to point out first the proposals in the setting that the Christian People's Party will support today. We support proposal No. One, from the Center Party, because it's important. It's about the costs for individuals and for society. It's an important perspective to have, because this is about damage and costs here and now, and not least in the long term. That is why the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. 1 in the settings. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the SV that child protection must be excluded from the measurement of social assistance. Today, we are promoting a proposal that, in addition to children's incomes, which we have discussed earlier today, both child welfare, cash support and gifts to children should be excluded from the calculation of social assistance. We will, of course, vote in favour of our own proposal, but in favour of SV's proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Many children grow up in families with persistently low incomes. We know that this can lead to stigmatisation, exclusion and social insecurity. Poverty is a structural problem that cannot be eliminated by simply introducing measures at individual level. While such measures are important, combating poverty also requires active redistribution policies and broad-spectrum universal action. The Christian People's Party will work to ensure that no children grow up in poverty in Norway, and we will also work for targeted measures to help those who need it the most. An example of targeted measures is good arrangements to ensure a proper place of residence. Another good example is a scheme in which low-income families can obtain a free card that ensures that all children can participate in at least one leisure activity. That is why the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. 11, where they ask the government to ensure that all children have access to equipment loans for leisure activities and that children from economically disadvantaged families have access to similar experience cards organised either under the government or under the authority of non-governmental organisations. Several of the proposals are also proposals that the government and the cooperation parties are working on and are working together on. It points to, among others: on holiday for everyone, and I am very happy that we could be in the budget unit to strengthen that post. It also points to the importance of people coming to work, and it is clear that the Christian People's Party shares it. It may be the most important measure to get out of poverty, but both Job and other things here are important measures that can help even more people get out of poverty. Let me also get to say something about what SV has to say about the one-time benefit, because it is an important matter for the Christian People's Party, and we fully agree that there we can do more. I am very pleased that we have got it into the cooperation agreement as an important point, and we have seen that in the years we have had this cooperation agreement, the one-time benefit has grown steadily. The Christian People's Party has in its program called for it to be even higher – we point to 2 G – because we think it is unfortunate that we have a system today that makes it possible that we should really not have children until at least we have rounded 30. It's at the age of most kids today, and it shouldn't be economics that makes it difficult to have children in the past. I think here, among other things. in students. That's something the government is working on, and the Christian People's Party is of course playing it into every budgetary discussion we have about increasing the one-time social benefit. That's a point where I record that we have a lot in common with SV. I see that they also point to it and have pointed to it for a long time. I also hope that in the future we will be able to do something about the one-time benefit and at least link it to G at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1806	The President believes that the representative, Mr Becquerad, should take up proposals and consider that this has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1809	I hope that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1814	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1817	As far as I know, we do not currently have an official, clear and consistent definition of poverty or the poverty line in Norway, and it is said that we should not even out all the differences for children and young people in terms of access to goods and opportunities. But we're talking about the ones that are the most needy. The basic thing is full employment and small income differences for work done, and I say ‘full employment’ and not ‘high employment’ and I am glad that the concept is stuck here in the hall. The government has also put forward a strategy in this area, ‘Children living in poverty. Government Strategy [[2015-2017]] ‘The high risk of poverty among some groups of countries is linked to the difficulty for adults in entering the Norwegian labour market.’ When we know that fact, in addition to the offer jacket we received as a result of the EEA enlargement in 2004, this becomes very, very demanding. Full employment in the Norwegian labour market requires a regulated offer page in the Norwegian labour market. Non-regulated immigration makes full employment and small income differences impossible, in the view of the Centre Party. We will stress the importance of a thorough analysis of the economic needs of raising the low-income immigrant groups to a desired level of income, as well as an assessment of the economic impact this has on further EEA migration, etc. When we promote this proposal, it is simply to get a more knowledge-based debate. I hope that several parties can support such a proposal, so that one can go into the actual reality that we're in, analyze why we're there and what we're going to do, with clear definitions, in order to get a discussion about these things that are more factual. With regard to the proposals submitted by SV, the Centre Party has responded to the proposals in the context of the State budget. We have come up with a number of measures there that go on those proposals, and we then choose to refer to them and basically not vote for any of the SV's proposals, sail if there are many of them that we have both money for and positive priorities around. But we think it's mixing this proposal and the recently released state budget, so we don't. Otherwise, I would say that we support the Christian People's Party's proposals, which show the basic attitude that we have on this issue in order to really do a job of raising the groups that need social support most, and it's those who are responsible for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1839	The representative, Mr Lundteigen, will also make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1843	I'm taking up the proposal from the Center Party, that's quite correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1848	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1851	There have been a number of issues and discussions where there have been references to the need to ensure even better pensions for different groups. It's got to be a good thing. But here we're talking about those who, unlike the average pensioner, are actually a poor group in Norway, and where there's a lot of work left over. The left definitely shares SV's commitment to bringing down child poverty and it is good that that discussion is raised into the Storting as often as possible. There is no doubt that there is much to do and that much has unfortunately gone in the wrong direction. For example, between 2005 and 2013, which should be known to several of the representatives here, we got 25 pst. more poor children in Norway. There are almost 20,000 kids who have entered that category. There are too many. Although there are different groups that fall under the treatment of poverty, there are also a number of trends that you should be aware of. One thing that's not going to get away from is that there's a lot of kids in families with immigrant backgrounds that are overrepresented on those statistics. I say that because we're now going to accept and integrate many people on the run, into Norwegian society. Many of the refugees have a bad starting point when it comes to education, for example, in order to cope with the Norwegian labour market, and that does not mean that this task will be any less in the future. But that just means that ambitions have to rise. Then it is the way in which the representative, Mr Lundteg, was concerned that very many of these proposals, not to say all of them, had budgetary implications and therefore had been dealt with together with the State budget of the Committee. I think I was wise. For the Left, we have delivered and voted in favour of an alternative state budget with a number of proposals targeted to bring down child poverty. Many of them also have support among other parties. One thing we do consistently, as I think more, including SV, should consider, is that instead of just spending more money – a resource that is not exhaustive – on different schemes, one can differentiate more. Instead of just increasing the amount of child-responsiveness for those who have the least, which is praiseworthy enough to do, you can also consider turning it down a little for those who have the most. 50 pst. of those who receive child benefit, put it directly into the account. Being a politician is a priority, and is a willing one, has more to do with achieving its goals, and an important goal is to bring down child poverty. Then we have a budgetary settlement between the Government Party and the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, where together we strengthen the social security net by over 800 million. kr. There was one of several important issues for the Left in the negotiations, and we are pleased that we have had too much of it. I also believe that the SV should be pleased, for several of the proposals presented in this draft representative, have also been implemented in the budget negotiations, including. proposed no. 6, 9, 11 and 12, as opposed to what has been done in the past. In the finance debate, the representative Snorre Serigstad held the election from SV a very strong post in which he asked the Left and Christian People's Party to change sides and come over to SV, because there was so much greener grass. Just when it concerns the willingness to take concrete action to fight child poverty, I almost believe I will return the greeting to the representatives who have submitted this Document 8. Now we are actually implementing a lot of the policy. That's wise. Finally, I would like to point out one measure that I think is particularly important. It is that after we have ensured in the previous budget the right to free core time for young people — four-female children — in low-income families, we are now expanding these schemes to three-year-olds. It's targeted poverty reduction -- it's not just exporting statements, for those who are busy with that kind of thing. It makes sure that kids get a chance to learn language, to become integrated, and it makes sure that parents have the ability to work. It is perhaps the most important poverty measure we implement in the budget that is actually adopted in this Chamber, and I hope that we can continue that way forward, and that we will differentiate from income and not – as I see SV, the Labour Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens do in this city – from the address. There is no target.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1870	I want to start by recording SV's suggestions. The fight against child poverty is about the fight to give everyone equal opportunities. It's about the fight to secure all the opportunities for a future. We know that poverty is inherited, and it will do so as long as structural differences lie there, like sex and class, without a policy actively trying to combat the inequalities that are, or that hits those that need it the most. Today’s government is leading a policy for greater disparities and for increasing poverty. In the course of the debate, and also in previous debates today, several have mentioned the government's strategy in relation to child poverty. I think it's very nice that we've got a strategy. I think that's good. Now there's a lot in it, there's a lot of creative in it. I'm very much in favour of poverty reduction, but I'm not sure about, for example. the point of swimming training is a targeted action in that context. Some of the measures in the government's strategy will definitely make it easier to be poor because more people get involved in things, but it doesn't matter with the poverty itself, with the income, because there's only one thing that can lift people out of poverty, and it's about income; what do you have to live with? It's your income that decides what you can put in the shopping cart, what kind of activity your kids have the opportunity to attend, whether it's going to be vacation this year or not. That is why we are proposing to increase the income of families with children and, in particular, to those groups that we know are most at risk of poverty, namely, the children of lone parents and families with many children. Then I record that many people are using their posts here today on the slab or criticism of SV's ambitions to fight poverty, to actually want a society where poverty no longer exists. I answer that by arguing to raise our proposals today, but it seems strange that when you sit with the power, you choose to look at the snow that both fell and melted in the past, rather than grabbing today. And when the snow melts, especially here in the East, yes, it gets salty in it, and it should sweat in open wounds for especially the Advance Party, because in its time the Groningensretten Horne was high and dark for eight years because the red-green government didn't increase the child's fear. And when Right asks why SV didn't do this when they put in government, the answer is: It wasn't a majority for that then – as it is today. But it's worse to run from their promises than to work to fight them forward. And I promise that this is SV's strategy for the last time. That is why we have made proposals today, where we believe that, collectively, we are making a decisive effort for child poverty and to lift people out of poverty. It's about a triple effort with concrete actions. One is about increasing the income of those we know are poor or those at risk of poverty. The second is to ensure participation in the labour market. We need to have a workline that works – a workline that includes people in work, that doesn't punish people for being poor. And the third – we need to ensure, both through universal schemes and through targeted actions such as support for equipment and holidays, that everyone has the opportunity to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1883	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1886	Let me start by reflecting a little bit about why many children are poor. I think that's because of a lot of things, but the main reason is that we see a big difference between kids who have parents who take part in the work and kids who grow up with parents who are out of work. There will also be many reasons why you are out of work. One of the most important things we can do is make sure that more people experience joy and freedom by being self-sufficient in their own labour income. If we're to succeed, we need a more inclusive working life and a more well-functioning working life. The government is doing a good job of creating this. We are well-informed about the tools and have come up with many new tools to help more people get into the labour market and to take out their ability to work. Let me mention someone: a new job-preparation training measure, which will come in a short time, which will be a good opportunity to help more people enter the labour market new and improved follow-up agreement towards the ordinary working life Nav supervisors into high school to provide good guidance in career choices and to match it with taking some of the education in the labour market and using normal working life; I visited Nav Trondheim last week. The job home, with an activity requirement, with good help, has made sure that only in the last two and a half years have 300 people got a foot in the workplace. Going from a everyday life with very low income to having the opportunity to earn its own income is much of the key recipe. In addition, the government is committed to closing gaps in the social security network. We have never had a government that has invested more in combating child poverty than this government. Thanks also to the good cooperation we as government parties have with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have developed a good strategy against child poverty, such as: – as the representative Rotevatn said – free core time in the kindergarten for four- and five-year-olds. We have increased the efforts of non-governmental organisations and social entrepreneurs to help more people get into the labour market. Many measures have also been taken to help children in a vulnerable situation. Never before have more children interacting with volunteering experienced holidays for everyone. Never before have more children been given the opportunity to take part in leisure activities, because this effort has been reinforced. Only from 2015 to next year will the fight against child poverty be strengthened by nearly 90 million. kr. The strategy was on – if I am not wrong, and then I look at my good colleague, the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion – 106 million. kr., which gives you the opportunity to help children in a vulnerable situation where children live, in their everyday lives. This is to close holes in the social security network. Much of the proposals that SV is promoting here today are well under way by the government. I am proud of the work that is being done, the work that is going on, and the work that is continuing in the future by many governments in this government. For other years in a row, among other things: the housing aid schemes have been improved and strengthened so as to enable more people to have a good and safe home and enter the housing market. One of the reasons for success is to come back to society and experience the opportunity to enter the labour market. The very security, the basis, for any human being is to have what you can call a home. This government also makes better arrangements for more people to have a safe and healthy home. In addition, there is a solid escalation in the drug field, which will also help many to get out of a robust everyday life and into a working life, to be habilitated and rehabilitated, which will also help many of their children to get a safer and better-growth without poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1913	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1916	I have a question for the Council of State: the Progress Party has been looking for a long time for benefits in several areas – life-time adjustment, car benefits, basic and auxiliary assistance, to name a few. Today, however, we are talking about child poverty, and disabled people also have children. Does the Council of State still believe that it was a good measure against child poverty to cut DKK 28 000 per child in the child supplement to disabled people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1923	What has been agreed in the Storting is that over a three-year period the sum of disability benefits and child allowances should not exceed 95 pst. of what you had as an income from work. For 2016, the compensation rate is 110 pst. of what you had in labour income. I think that is decent and good arrangements, because I think it is good to have welfare arrangements that ensure security and good, stable living conditions, while at the same time we have schemes that are designed to pay off working. I think most people in this room agree with me that it would be a good idea not to have welfare schemes where in many fields a level of compensation can be obtained which means that benefits are far higher than what can be obtained in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1928	My question was what the government had proposed. I know what the Storting has decided, and I also know that those who the Council of State here refers to having a compensation rate of 110 pst. apply to very few with very low incomes. To the next question, I wonder if the Council of State has good evidence and can document that the one who has little, is most motivated by whips in the form of cuts in benefits, while those who have a lot from before are best motivated by carrots in the form of large tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1935	This government has not cut in any basic benefits to those who are poor, rather on the contrary. We've seen together actually strengthened the supply of the children who grow up with poor parents. We are talking here about, among other things, social assistance, which is the last part of our safety net, where we help more children than ever to experience activities, holidays, and where we help more parents to qualify to get into work and experience the freedom of living from their own labour income. I believe that the Workers' Party is also concerned with a policy that ensures that more people can get out of poverty, live on their own labour income and get the opportunity to get into working life. What are the benefits of Christoffersen here? I'd like to read that. The only thing she refers to is a proposal that fell in Stortinget in the autumn of 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1943	I was thinking first and foremost about the children's supplement, because I figured that the government was serious about the matter when the proposal was presented to Stortinget. It was not the government's profit that it was not adopted. Other examples of cut: It was interesting that the Council of State mentioned holiday. I asked questions in the financial debate without getting answers and thought I could repeat it here: In terms of the daily allowance for the unemployed, the government has among other things. they have been cut in holiday money, but they have also cut in other parts of the daily allowance code. Free people also have children, and that's a total cut of 2 billion. kr in the day-to-day allowance for the unemployed. The government's argument is that one should create jobs. I wonder how many jobs you expect to create by the two billion who are cut off in daily and holiday pay for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1952	Firstly, in the case of day-to-day benefits, where one receives 62.4 pst. of his salary, it is still fixed. No changes have been made to it at all. Those who have been available for a long time – over one year – receive holiday pay. It must also be borne in mind that once the daily allowance period has expired, most of them will have come to work, i.e. pay income. That's something you also have to take with you. As far as the child supplement is concerned, the government is in line with the proposals put forward by the government in this room. But I think it is remarkable that a child of a cancer who goes on redundancy pay is less valuable than a child who has a disability, based on the way in which the Workers' Party approaches this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1963	The Council of State said that the government's policy is to close the gaps in the security network. Then I wonder how holes in the social security network are closing by the government removing the child supplement to the poorest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1968	The government will not remove the children's plugin for the poorest poor. That's the one. The second is that the children's supplement is still stuck. In 2016 you can get 110 pst. of what you had as an employee income, in disability benefits and child allowances. It is not to remove the child plugin. So it's about giving children better opportunities. We have dealt with a matter here earlier today that makes children under the age of 18 who have summer jobs and weekend work keep the income themselves. The fact that we're spending 89 million. kr more next year than we did this year to combat child poverty, giving more children the opportunity to participate in leisure activities and in holiday services than ever before. It also provides better opportunities for children. Improve core childhood care schemes, housing support schemes, etc. also improves the situation for children who grow up with low-income parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1975	This year's Christmas gift from the government to the poorest poor is that you get less to live for. There is a good patch on the wound that some of the kids might get the opportunity to join a holiday plan by getting a system for it. Governments also cited work as the main way to get people out of poverty. It's a vision that SV share. It's about being able to support yourself, with both legs safely planted in the workplace. But then I wonder how people are helped to secure jobs by temporary employment, especially for women – perhaps they are lonely – who are pregnant and who are at risk of not renewing the contract because you are in the living situation you are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1982	Again, as far as disability is concerned, I note that the proposal for a reduction in the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, which we receive for the next year, will include 140 000 disability pensioners – 140 000. They won't give SEK 4000 more a year to live for – that's what this government does. That's something that gives them a better economy. In the case of pregnant women, the rules for them are well defined in the Working Environment Act. As I said, we use more social entrepreneurs, more action places, new work-preparation training measures, better follow-up agreements and better pay subsidies schemes to help people get into working life. That's a good way to get more people involved. It is better to have a foot within the workplace than to have both feet well planted on the outside of the workplace and never experience coming to a single interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1989	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e1992	I want, first of all, to give credit to SV for raising an important topic for debate, and I am very pleased that there is a broad political consensus on preventing and combating poverty that affects children. That is good, and there is a great overlap between the eleven proposals promoted by the representatives of Bergstø and Andersen and the measures taken by the government in the Children in Poverty Strategy. It is a strength that we in Norway have broad political agreement on the work against child poverty. The increasing arrival of asylum seekers is likely to contribute to a further increase in the proportion of children in low-income families. The newcomers will spend longer time getting into work. Children cannot be loaded, but they will still live with the consequences of the situation of their parents. The government is committed to both gaining more knowledge and taking targeted action against child poverty. We have therefore proposed increases in appropriations for several actions in the 2016 budget strategy. Following the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the effort will be further strengthened. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has already partly explained how the strategy against child poverty takes account of the majority of the proposals discussed here today. Let me stress that the government's efforts against child poverty are complete. The government has increased the disposable benefit by birth and adoption several times in the current period, according to the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party. The government's objective is to increase employment among immigrants who are far from the labour market. The government has therefore proposed to strengthen the Jobjesen action by 10 million. kr next year. The representatives Bergstø and Andersen have proposed more funding for equipment loans, experience cards and holiday arrangements. The government has already strengthened grant schemes and measures to this end in the current year. The Government has also proposed an increase of 8 million in the national scheme against child poverty. kr for 2016. Following the budgetary agreement, this subsidy scheme was further increased by 15 million. kr. Of these funds, 3 million. kr proposed eartag reinforcement of the Red Cross measure Holiday for all and 2 million. kr to Barnas Station. More than 100 municipalities and 450 individual measures received support in 2015. Of these, about half were non-governmental organisations. For many children, this makes a big difference. In addition to this, the Government has invited KS, Freewill Norway and the sport of cooperation on a common goal for all children to have the opportunity to participate regularly in at least one organised leisure activity. The aim of this cooperation is to conclude a common leisure agreement. The government's strategy is based on the fact that child poverty is a complex problem. This is reflected in the seven key areas of the strategy, such as: include kindergarten and school, labour market, voluntary sector and healthcare. The interaction between social, health and economic challenges over time often reinforces each other and increases the risk of exclusion and poverty. The government therefore pursues a policy that focuses on preventing the consequences of poverty from being inherited from parents to children. We have strengthened the prevention of family protection; the violence prevention work has been strengthened; the same is the school health service, the health centres and the work of child protection. When parents work hard, this has a major impact on the children living in the family. Measures against child poverty are therefore aimed at prevention, but also at participation. Children shall grow up to be assured that they are needed and that they belong to them. The social consequences of poverty and social exclusion are many. They also hit children in Norway, even though we are a rich country. Often this is related to the social and economic situation of families. The consequences cost society expensive, economic and not least human. Therefore, it is important for the government to spend more money than ever on measures to prevent and mitigate the negative effects of child poverty. The aim is for all children and young people to use their resources, to participate and contribute to the community as they grow, and not least to prevent poverty from inheriting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2022	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2025	In its speech, the Council of State said that there would probably be more poor children in Norway until next year because many asylum seekers and immigrants come to Norway. Is this Council of State concerned, and in the event of what action will the Council of State take to counteract that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2030	We already see that children living in minority families are over-represented in poverty statistics, and I am concerned that the increasing arrival of asylum seekers now, who are also families with children, will cause more children to live below the poverty line, and the reason for this is that it takes longer to get their parents out of work. This is why some of the most important measures, when we are now discussing integration measures here in the United Kingdom and, not least, in the government, with the notified integration message that will be presented, will get the individual out of work and provide language training, so that individuals can use their resources, become self-sufficient and also provide income to the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2036	In addition to immigrant families, children of lone dependants are overrepresented in the groups we can define as poor in Norway. Then we heard the Minister of Labour of the Council of State saying that he is proud of the work done by the government on measures to combat poverty in families with children. Your state councillor Horne proud of the suggestion to cut 590 million. kr in unloaded children's supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2043	I'm proud to be part of a government that is really betting on child poverty. One of the most important things we have put forward now is the strategy to prevent poverty from inheriting, to help children and young people who grow up in low-income families, to take part in leisure activities and to get holiday offers, and not least to borrow equipment. There are several other measures proposed by the government, both free core time in the kindergarten, reduced kindergarten prices for low-income families and housing support for families with high housing costs. So there are many measures that lie within this strategy, and as the government follows up in close cooperation with the cooperation parties here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2048	Storting representative Horne said a few years ago that it was a shame that the child's protection was not priced by the red-green government. Is the Minister for the Child Shame on his own budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2053	The Advance Party has been calling for a price adjustment of the child’s rights throughout the year. We have done that in our alternative budgets, but we have not received a majority for this. Like the previous government, this government has also not increased child welfare, but we have reduced a sample that is now going to go through all the grant schemes that families with children currently have, to see if they are accurate in the current situation. Let me stress that it is important that all families with young children should have good welfare arrangements, so that they take care of the family, but it is also important that we get a review now, when it is 20 years since we last looked at all the grant schemes that the families with young children have. I'm glad this government has managed to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2060	In the agreement on the narrowing of asylum policy presented a few weeks ago, there is one point where it is said that it is important to consider linking residence in Norway to cash benefits, i.e. the possibility of getting it. It has already been established by the Council of State itself that the group with the highest risk of child poverty is precisely the children of immigrants, of refugees. Does the Council of State think that preventing access to cash benefits would make families better or worse financially rested?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2065	I think one of the most important things we can do is to identify the individual who has been accommodated, as early as possible, that we get started on language training, that we have close cooperation in the municipalities both with business and with volunteering, so that individuals can quickly be able to get into work and use their resources, and not least become self-sustaining. It is one of the most important things we can do to combat poverty in those families. Then it is important for me to stress that the children living in these families must have arrangements for providing both leisure and holiday services, so that they can be well included regardless of the income of their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2072	The Council of State also mentions languages now — she also mentioned languages in the article — as an important factor in the success of the Norwegian society. Now it was cut into language training at reception. My question is, how are people better able to cope in Norwegian society without learning the Norwegian language?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2077	Language training becomes important. The government has therefore invested in language training for those who have been given residence, and we are intensifying that work. With the large influx of asylum seekers that is now coming, and which, according to today's legislation, is right in 250 hours, that is, asylum-seekers, we will have problems getting access to Norwegian teachers, and therefore the government has proposed to cut the 250 hours to 175 hours, in order to really use the resources that we need for the people who have been accommodated, so that they can start training Norwegian quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2082	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2087	There are many who are concerned with children's freedom during the day, especially the freedom of Muslim children with hijab. It is right to be concerned about the freedom of Norwegian children. Many children in Norway are growing up with great impunities today. But the greatest unfreedom they hardly experience in the form of a garment. The biggest unfreedom children in Norway experience today is growing up with violence and growing up with poverty. Think of all those who are now engaged in children’s freedom from religious symbols as being equally engaged in the fight against poverty! Imagine how far we had come then! There are no poor children in Norway, but there are poor parents. Kids don't have their own finances. Many poor children grow up with lonely single - parenters. Therefore, SV is today promoting proposals to increase child-restraint for single dependants. Families with multiple children are another group of large expenditures. That is why we are also promoting proposals to increase sibling supplementation in child welfare, with particular emphasis on families with three or more children. Unfortunately, the proposals are being voted down in Stortinget today. It makes me wonder: Why does the majority of Norwegian adults not have the ability to take the fight for the poor children? Poverty in the world's richest country is much about not being able to participate in social activities, as mentioned earlier in the debate. It could be birthdays you don't go in, because when the election is between dinner and a birthday present, it's dinner. It may be to be deprived of the possibility to participate in post-school activities, or to stand on the outside of the school gate when the other children enter the school leisure system, what we in Oslo call the activity school, the AKS. When I'm not at Stortinget, I study child protection and work part-time in the activity school, an arena in which most children attend, but which many people can't afford. Every day I see two or three students in each class go home, not because they want to – they want to be left and play with their classmates – but because it's a very high cost for their parents. I see how they don't get to participate in an important social arena together with their peers. I'm proud to say that the new urban government in Oslo is now working on what will be a large welfare project, that is, free half-day space in the activity school for very many children. We start with some neighborhoods, but Oslo SV's goal is clear: we want all children in Oslo to have free activity school. I see that the majority of the committee is very concerned about the so-called targeted use of support schemes. Here, there's an important fundamental difference between SV and the government. Where the Right will give special arrangements to those who have the least, we would rather have those who have the most to pay more taxes, but at the same time enjoy universal arrangements on an equal footing with other people. On the left hand side, we believe in small differences, a strong community and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2102	I'll continue where the representative Olivia Corso Salles ended, because there's a little bit of the principle here, this by realizing how degrading it is to have to crawl and ask for special arrangements all the time. It's for the parents, and we don't have to imagine anything other than that the kids notice it's like that. That is why it is important to think universal arrangements, such as: all kids in a town go to activity school or kindergarten and have free core time, which means you get rid of all these stigmas that come with this. And unfortunately, it's a stigma to be poor in Norway, sail in a few hungers. A responsibility that I think we all have to take together gradually is not to look down on people who have bad advice – because it's actually a tendency in society to look down on people who have bad advice. And it hurts more, I think, than most people experience. In addition to that, at least many of the people I've been in contact with over the years, and there's not a few, saying that being treated debilitatingly in their meeting with the public also hurts more than having little money. These schemes that go to families who have poor advice and where children live in poverty are important. And all the arrangements that can get parents to work are important. There's a non-consistent working line. It was cut in e.g. the transitional benefit, where people received a safe income while they were trained for a profession of dependability. There is not enough qualification programme for those who want it – since the number has fallen sharply in recent years – and it was precisely to those who went on social assistance for a long time, and where the prospects of getting along were not great. So all of these things, like this one about Job, which the Council of State was in on, have to be strengthened a lot more, so that it actually becomes possible to get into work. That's where the child's back comes in, and it's quite brilliant, because the child's back is given whether you're at work or not. It doesn't have the effect that you can risk losing it if you get to work. The only people who lose their child's pension are those who are so poor that they have to go to the social office to ask for support for a living. In Norway, we have the perverted system that only those who need the most child-rescue are the ones who don't get it. We've asked the government to figure out how much we're taking from these families every year, and that's over 350 million. kr. SV tried to fix this when we were in government. It wasn't the majority for that. I believe that when you read the setting here today, you also understand why it was not possible to get more when we were in government. That's the way it is, and I also hope that the government can have some understanding – because there's a couple of-three things I could point out that they haven't, which they've fought for – and that you could look at the reality of these proposals, because they're important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2116	I just want to say that the Right will not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, as they came with today, that child welfare, cash support and children's gifts and income are excluded from the measurement of benefits under the social services law and housing support law. Some of the Christian People's Party's proposals are already being adopted today – this is about children's income, which should not now be the basis for measuring economic social assistance. However, when it comes to changing the principles underlying the measurement of economic benefits and housing support, there will be budgetary implications, and we feel that these are things that need to be addressed when we deal with the budget, as we have just done. That's why we can't go into it. Several others have mentioned the same today. While I'm here, I also want to comment on what SV has come up with, last from Karin Andersen, about looking down on people with bad advice. I don't know much about that. I think it's sad if it's like that, but I hope and think people don't. Then you have to go on your own. And to the SV, who believes that there are only increased benefits that can help prevent child poverty, I have to ask: Is SV absolutely sure that increased benefits always go to the best of the children? I was at a lunch seminar last week that was arranged by the Blue Cross, AV-OG-TIL and related to drug users. That was very interesting. It was also presented a study there on who really lives in poor families. There are children in immigrant families, but there are also children of drug users, including those who have hidden drug abuse. There was one who stood there and told me what it was like to live like this, where you hide what it's like at home, and how poor you are. Increased benefits did not go to the children's best, it went to completely different things. He told about the importance of being able to get support for equipment and to pay the quota to be at social arenas with others, and not least about the 20-cronage of an advent calendar at school that was hard to get because there was no money at home, for the money went to completely different things. I have also been told by former colleagues in the care of Russo and Nav, who say that it is not always the case that increased payments help the poorest children, because adults spend their money on things quite different from the children's best. We have also heard that now, with younger asylum seekers who get money for living, but who feel pressured to send money out of the country to family elsewhere. So it's not that simple. We have to, I think, earmark more money for measures that allow children in poor families to participate with other children in social arenas, and thus counteract poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2125	There has been an exciting and interesting debate to follow. And to the person who said that you're training as a child protection educator, I can say that when I'm not on the Storting, I train child protection educators and socionomists, and it's nice that they get involved in politics. I think it's important to talk about child poverty, to draw some historical lines, and I don't think these debates do. For my part, it is important to withdraw the lines to the 1800s and factory laws and to the 1989 Children's Convention. The reason why I say that is, when you talk about child poverty, you really talk about Norwegian childhood, and you talk about Norwegian social history. And Norwegian social history has the challenge that it always is, and always has been, someone who falls on the side of established society, and then the question is how and how society manages to draw everyone. That's always been the starting point. With regard to the concept of poverty, it may not be important to be able to define it, it may be more important to think that some children in Norway perceive that they fall on the side, regardless of their definition. What is at least the historical verdict is that if children are to get better in Norway, it is primarily about adults getting better. All history tells us that when adults got better through work or better working conditions, children also got better, and children's rights were actually something that focused on. Therefore, as many have argued, the key to getting more out of poverty – if you talk about poverty in its relative form – is work and education. It is also about being able to involve those who may fall into parts or entire periods in the labour market, and it is about involving those who may fall out of education. And that's a good thing when you talk about child-responsiveness, that child-responsiveness comes first and foremost to children. That's what's the starting point, and that's what has to be in focus. I think a lot is about working with volunteers and also with the public – that is, public solutions – that many people have talked about. But it's also quite simply about you and me. Several have talked about this with attitudes, and it's about you and me meeting with others. Not least – and finally, one of the articles of the Children’s Convention, Article 12, states that children have the right to be heard. It is not often in these words that you experience children being heard. It's often the perspective of adults, and it's maybe time to draw children's perspective, because that's who it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2138	I want to thank you for the last article. It was a very good post. The last thing that kids don't get heard is very important. A book was published a few years ago that took into account how social services worked with poor families with children, who showed – and also the Health Inspectorate’s report on this issue – that social services talk to children, these children, to a very small extent, and hear if there is something they need, that parents cannot care about, or are able to have an overview of. Because it's important, but it doesn't, and that means we have to make the law we've passed work. The same applies to benefits. Firstly, SV is not only concerned with benefits. We're concerned that you have to have something to live with. So the social service law is that you can set conditions and manage money, if that's the problem in the family. However, there is now a signal that all disadvantaged people are unable to manage money or take care of their seas. It's the main attitude that comes out that, well, it could be like that. But the law takes care of it today, so there's no reason not to raise the benefits, because you can use the law as it is today, to meet that need. It must then be possible to have a fundamental view of whether or not to shorten child welfare. SV believes it should not, because the only group in Norway that does not receive child welfare is the one who needs it the most. It is quite inexplicable that all other families with children need an extra thousand bills a month, while the very poorest, who have no pay, should not do so. There's no reasonable explanation for that, except that you think poverty is doing something good with people, that they're going to get together, or get a little better, or I don't know what. I know that poverty leads to disease and more exclusion. The housing aid has been mentioned here. Yes, the housing allowance has changed, so that there are now 6 300 fewer living quarters than when this government took over. There's no more getting it. We know that these are those who are out of work, who are the poorest, and then the government went completely focused and removed the child supplement for those families with parents who have the lowest disability benefit. So that's 590 million. kr taken from the poorest children’s families – before starting to add a little. These operations aren't pretty to look at. We know that this is going to hit the kids, because that's not how these parents get out of the wheelchair and get a job because they get less money. They get it harder, both the kids and the adults, and then the chance of doing it is less. That's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2151	In the case of the children’s allowance, the Government made the same proposal as the majority of the Committee on Pensions for Victims. Policies adopted are confusing as recommended by the minority in the Committee on Occupational Pensions. The Labour Party chooses to sit on its high horse in the debate on the child supplement, but fortunately SV has given us a rare insight into the negotiations in the red-green government. We have then seen that the primary position of the Workers' Party was to confuse what this government wanted to promote. In addition to the Anti-Fraud Committee, the design of the children’s supplement was problematised by the Distribution Committee, and the Brochmann Committee also recommended adjusting the children’s plugin. In reality, the proposal – what has been adopted and what was proposed, insofar as – is a completion of the misreform that came from the red-green government. The Workers' Party also gives the impression in its comments that this proposal on the Children's Supplement should provide for relief in the property tax for this year. That is impossible, because that proposal had no budgetary impact this year. It is the same thinking that explains why the Labour Party today lacks billions in its alternative budget. You think you can budget with money you don't have. In addition, the Workers' Party chooses to criticise the Government's proposals on the transitional benefit, while the Workers' Party agreed with many of the Government's proposals on the transitional benefit. There's something about creative history writing – and the Workers' Party is pretty good at it. The transitional benefit is also an example of how SV's rhetoric about cold policies can turn out to be completely wrong. The biggest change in transitional social benefits occurred in the 1990s. Then the scheme was reduced from ten to three years. It was cold, it was unsocial, they were told. But that made more people get to work faster. The best social policy is that people have a job to do. Obviously, it's right, as Andersen's representative says, that you can get sick of poverty, or that you can get sick by standing outside. That's why this requires something of us. It requires that we clean up the invisibility many experienced during the red-green government's implementation of the Nav reform. Too many people still have to wait too long before they get a measure. In the system, there are a number of conscientious Nav employees who do as best they can, in a system that can also be unwieldy for them. Therefore, I believe that the work of the majority on the right to work is extremely important, and having a general clean-up of the response system, making it easier to find the right actions for the right person.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2173	I thought the debate was about to go to the end, so as case rapporteur I only have a few closing comments. I think it has been a good debate, a debate on an important topic, and a debate that also shows that there are dividing lines between the parties in terms of the different choices we make. To the representative Heggelund I would like to say that if he is interested in what the Workers' Party thought about children's supplements, he would like to talk to us, then he will get a right story about what we meant. I would like to comment on a few things that have been said in the debate. That's right. That's 590 million. Although the year in which the proposal was proposed was not the year in which savings were made, the same year there were large cuts in the taxes on wealth, and a certain connection will necessarily be when you look at such proposals against each other. In this debate I record that the 590 million. kr is exchanged into an action plan – which is good – of 109 million. kr, there are at least some differences. A slightly more currily opinion that has come to light in this debate is the reference to the fact that there will be a reduction in the coordination of pensions for married and cohabiting people; there may well be few in the target population who will benefit from that very proposal. I would like to say to the Council of State Eriksson that in the case of holiday money – I saw that he reacted to it in my post earlier today – it is such that many of those who have been unemployed get back to work, but the difference is that holiday money is something a earner does. If one is going to take a vacation after one has come to work again, one will not get anything paid during the holiday. That's what the government proposed a year ago. Finally, I would like to explain how the Labour Party is going to vote on the current proposals available here. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Although we do not agree with the description that the Central Party and SV had before this proposal, we believe that the proposal can be a good way to make an assessment of the economic needs. We are not going to vote in favour of the proposals. 2-7, because this does not have budget coverage for us. We also believe that the Council of State responds well to the proposal to keep child protection out of social assistance. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal No. 8-12, for which we are committed in our budget. We will not vote in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2188	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2191	That proposal by the Christian People's Party is going to vote for. I have three things: one is for the representative who was up and said that no one looked down on the poor. Well – to say it like that – if you've been to a school yard and seen how kids measure each other on what they have of clothes and equipment and such things, who gets to be with and who doesn't get to be with, I think you have to think about it again. There are a lot of comments in social media about people who are struggling – that they have to thank themselves, that it's just laxity, etc. So there's a lot of ugly things being said about people who are poor, and they're very vulnerable to such words, which others might not take on. In the case of conversion for lone dependants, the government SV proposed the main conversion and there is a requirement for activity in that scheme now. It seems good. I am also very concerned about the signals given by the Council of State to tighten up the benefits of immigrants – precisely those family groups that are now at risk of poverty. Then there will be more poor families of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2202	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 10-12 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2243	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2250	The world has become smaller. Shipping goods has become simpler and cheaper. Unfortunately, defenceless people are also involved in a large-scale global trafficking in human beings. Slavery in the Western world was banned in 1865. Owning and buying and selling people was prohibited. But it didn't mean that the practice disappeared – it just went underground. The UN has estimated that there are between 25 and 27 million victims of human trafficking in the world. Of these, women make up 98 pst. It is far more than what was carried over during the transatlantic slave trade, where 11 million were victims of slave trade. Trafficking in human beings is one of the three largest illegal economies in the world. People are sold over and over again, as opposed to a once-transmitted dose of drugs. No one can accurately estimate the level of trafficking in human beings in Norway. To that end, one has simply not examined this too little. But the numbers of darkness are probably significant. Trafficking in human beings is, as you know, very often in the context of organised crime. Essentially, there is broad agreement in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the proposals in the case. It is also natural in view of the tragic consequences of trafficking in human beings and the fact that we in Norway also have this problem. According to Kripos, criminal networks active in prostitution in several of the major Norwegian cities are also active in other forms of crime. There are indications that women from West African countries are forced into prostitution to pay debts to traffickers who have brought them to Norway. Section 224 of the Penal Code prohibits the trafficking of people and the exploitation of prostitution and forced labour. Norway is also obliged by international conventions to assist and provide assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings, including: through the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings and the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime. Human trafficking rests on the invisibility of its victims. In sum, the proposals for decisions will lead to an intensification of the fight against trafficking in human beings, and victims of trafficking will be given a better opportunity to get out of the backs. Identifying oneself as a victim of trafficking in human beings may take some time because the fear of represals from the rear makes matters not actually reported. Several of the proposals available in the cases we are dealing with here now are likely to increase the chances of cases being reported and thus punishable. Through its annual circular on criminal proceedings in the police, the National Advocate General has made it clear that trafficking in human beings and the crime of working life are priority types of cases. The government followed up by $15 million. For this purpose, last year's State Budget, and I dare remind the Justice Committee and the Stortinget that one of the main reasons for the near police reform is the need for a better investigation environment and also for a better investigation into trafficking in human beings and the crime of working life. We see that police districts that put specific emphasis on this also achieve good results. I would like to take this opportunity to give homage to the Hordaland police district, which has been dedicated to these kinds of issues and has achieved good results. This is an example of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2271	This is an important day and many good decisions taken by the Justice Committee and the Stortinget. It's an aggregate Storting that basically sums up the severity of the problem we're talking about, that it's the slavery of our time. I think that's very important. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Elves, who has done a very good job in these matters. Now I am the case rapporteur for the Central Party proposal. The three cases have been dealt with together, so I will first talk a little about the others and then come to the end. As the rapporteur for the case, Mr Riveres, said: the estimates are that there is approximately one. Thirty million slaves today. One knows it's a big illegal market, and it's big money, it's cynical backers. In Norway, we have been up against 40 juridical judges on trafficking in human beings since 2003, but in recent years it has been identified about. 300 victims every year. We know that there are large numbers of darkness, and it's not always as easy to detect. These people live in human trafficking, living in slavery. As an example, I have found quick reports from the newspapers. The newspaper wrote that several people have worked on slave pay, they have worked 12 hours days at NOK 33 per hour in a laundry room. The evening post wrote about an au pair who worked 14 hours a day, did everything that was in the house and was taken away from her passport so she could not travel. Or the strong story of Yasmin as NRK Focus showed, she who fled with the mother. Mora died in refugee camp, and Yasmin became an easy prey for cynical traffickers who told her to join the school. She never came to school, she was locked up in a room, transported to Europe as a sex slave. When NRK Focus interviewed her, you saw that she was so traumatized that she fainted during the interview. I think Yasmin is a good example of the terrible situation facing millions of people. We know that there are many of them also in Norway, and that we have to do a bigger job to help these people out of slavery. GRETA, the Council of Europe's expert group, has made a number of proposals, or recommendations, to Norway, and many of these recommendations have been used as a starting point when the Christian People's Party wrote our representative proposal. For a long time we have fought against our time of slavery. That is why I am particularly pleased that so many good decisions are being taken after the proposals today, and that we have adopted many important measures to help victims of trafficking in human beings. It's about prevention, it's about attitude changes, it's about competence and tools for the police, and it's about priority, and it's about a better follow-up of the victims coming out. I'm not going to mention all the proposals, but I'm going to draw up some of them that I think are most important. First of all, it's about knowledge and attitudes, knowledge in school. As the rapporteur was in the case, there is a great deal of focus on the transatlantic slavery, the old slavery that was abolished. But there is nothing mandatory, for example, in the curriculum about slavery of our time, even though there may be three times as many slaves. Now we agree that at least we're going to get awareness and knowledge in school. There are also attitudes related to social dumping. The way from exploiting people in social dumping and over to worse organised trafficking in human beings is short. One knows that hundreds of billions are being translated into black work in Norway, and that's at least a big problem. Improving the skills of different occupational groups for the identification of victims is very important. One knows that there has been a bit of the success factor in Hordaland, as the case-in-law rapporteur said. Increased communication control, which we agree on at least in large parts of the Committee, will be important especially in cases where the victim has disappeared, but also in cases where the victim will not talk – to be able to go back to find the behindrs who are most important to get hold of. Good follow-up, suitable accommodation, look at the reflection period, strengthen voluntary organisations — there are also some measures that are not adopted today, but that are in the budget, to which I come back — and looking at a residence permit where a person is likely to be victims of trafficking in human beings. And finally, with regard to the proposal promoted by the Centre Party, that those who know that they are renting out premises that are used for social dumping or, in the worst case, trafficking in human beings, we want the government to come back with a bill. So all in all, the good proposals are hopefully going to give greater risk to the backers and greater security for the victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2303	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their very good work in the Committee. As has been said, we very much agree on the measures being promoted today. There are important things to consider. Migration is part of our time. Desperate people who travel are vulnerable to exploitation and abuse. Measures to combat abuse and forced labour must be broadly organised. Work life is particularly important. The UN Conventions are designed to protect people in flight. A specific case of women and children, who are most vulnerable to sale, purchase, forced labour and serious abuse, is also available. The International Labour Organization is actively working against forced labour and social dumping. According to their 2012 estimates, 20.9 million people are victims of forced labor at all times. This is an area where tripartite cooperation is close and necessary. The Labour Party points out that there is a cross-political consensus to establish two new social dumping centres where the tax administration, Nav and the Labour Inspectorate cooperate. That's good. The Labour Party points out that the commitments we have are about three aspects: prevention, criminal prosecution, and assisting victims of trafficking in human beings. The Labour Party has made proposals in all areas: two action plans; the introduction of a ban on the purchase of sexual services; better care for victims; and strong instruments in the field of working life. The last action plan expired in 2014 and we are waiting for this government to come up with a new action plan. In this field, Norway should aim to become the best in the world. Other countries should have a country to look up to, a country that goes ahead and is an international example. The Labour Party supports the strong voice used by the Christian People's Party in this matter. That's good, because it's necessary. Children, women and people in distress often have a life of atrocities that we cannot understand, with violence and gross humiliation. Many who now come to Norway have been in great need. We have to assume that these may have been exposed to such a serious crime before arrival. They are also in a vulnerable situation after arriving in the country. It is therefore important to capture this and take the necessary measures against women and children in particular, in order to protect them and to prevent further crime. The challenges must be met with a broad range of instruments. Among other things, the Labour Party believes that both ROSA and Laura’s house should become permanent measures. The Workers' Party shall take up its proposals for decisions. So I just want to finally fix a bug in the setting of case number. 10: Workers' Party votes against VIII and not VII as it says it does. And then the Workers' Party will vote for SV's loose proposal No. 1, 3 and 5 on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2329	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2332	Trafficking in human beings is a major international problem, including in Norway. Section 224 of the Criminal Code prohibits the trafficking of people. Norway has a moral duty to help victims of trafficking in human beings, and I am pleased that both the government and a broad majority take this issue seriously. The 2015 budget provided funds for the establishment of investigation teams in the five main police districts to combat trafficking in human beings. For the Progress Party, it has been important that these teams continue, and I am pleased that the government ensures further funding in Prop. 1 S. Near-police reform will also strengthen work on trafficking in human beings, as it has been decided to build competences on trafficking in human beings in police districts. The Progress Party welcomes the consideration in this context of the establishment of several investigative teams to combat trafficking in human beings as effectively as possible. Knowledge is also important in this field. It is essential to raise awareness of people who encounter people who are at risk of trafficking and to increase their ability to identify victims. Hordaland police districts that have investigated almost half of the cases related to trafficking in human beings that are now in force have implemented various measures to increase their competence to ensure that the police better detect that cases may be related to trafficking in human beings. It is also important that the competences and resources of the prosecution authorities are satisfactory in order for these complex cases to end up in the judiciary. It is also important that customs services, security staff at airports, child protection staff, asylum recipients, health professionals, teachers, etc. have important positions to identify victims of trafficking in human beings. For example, borderline personnel will have their first meeting with the victims when they cross the border. In this context, it is worth mentioning the strengthening of the customs status of the Progress Party in government. A strong customs tariff and good border control are an important prerequisite for the fight against trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2343	The size is now dealing with three important issues at the same time. I want to start by thanking the case spokespersons for a good job and working together in these matters. After the hearing of the Judicial Committee, the Storting will take some important decisions today. Some are decisions of distribution and some are clear decisions on changes in laws – all with the aim of helping the weakest, those who are being exploited, and putting those who exploit other people to responsibility. Penalty is only one instrument in this context. However, some decisions may have a preventive effect and not least provide police tools to prevent crime. I will continue in my post to document 8:117 S. The time we live in is a time of constant change in our society. The intrusion of people who want a better life in Norway is increasing, which also increases the risk of vulnerable people being exploited. Some backers are thinking a lot about the difficult situation other people are in. To counteract this, it is important that we enable the police to meet this new everyday life with new tools. The proposal from the representative Lundteg and myself has come as a result of a request from the police. There are currently very many asylum seekers, but other immigration is also large. Those who come here can be vulnerable people and can be easy to take advantage of for cynical human traders. These people can build their businesses by means of over-cost labour. Such conditions destroy Norwegian business, and it can ruin the lives of those who are being exploited. I am very pleased that the Stortinget today was co-consulted with the representative of the representative from Lundtägen and myself to make it criminal to rent out the premises for social dumping companies. As an opposition politician, I am not part of a plural constellation. That is why it is not often an impact on representatives' proposals either, but I am pleased that we are getting it in this matter. It shows that the majority of the Storing population in this area may see the major challenges facing society. Since 2011, there has been a cooperation project between the police, the tax administration, the chemist, Nav and the Labour Inspectorate, such as: has controlled a hundred washrooms in Norway. The project has detected a number of broken pieces of the current legislation, for example: migrants without work or rest periods who live and work for very low wages in washrooms. These people are being exploited financially by the backers. This shows that we have to face the situation with the relevant tool. Police have described several examples from a sector such as the car care industry, where there have been uncovered serious conditions. The reason why the proposal will have a particular impact on crime in this sector is that operations need permanent, physical localisation. This means that drivers often enter into local rental contracts and that a third party is thus inside the image. If you rent locals for business, you often have a good knowledge of what's going on in these locals. The proposal the Stortinget now adopts will clearly make the landlord responsible when there is a proposal from the government to amend the law here, if the person has or should have had knowledge of illegal activity that takes place in the local he is renting out. As a proposer, I assume that such a change in the law itself will have a preventative effect. I expect the government to come back quickly to Stortinget with a bill that is outlined here, and since the committee has agreed to our proposal, I don't think there's any reason to comment on it here. If necessary, I'll do it now, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2369	Since the proposal is in the vote, that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2372	Now more people here have started to thank the case rapporteurs for a good and thorough job, and I just want to try to thank the entire committee for the job that has been done in three important and serious matters. I think the committee has taken it seriously and done a thorough job in all three cases. Trafficking in human beings is an important theme because it is a serious form of crime. There are serious violations of human rights, as the Committee itself writes. Many of those who are exposed to this type of crime are living in great distress and are being exploited in the most serious way. It is quite obvious that it is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of society, to address this. As others have done before me, I also want to draw attention to the police reform, or the near-police reform, as it is called. This was one of the important reasons why the Left wanted to enter into an agreement on the near-police reform: it's just about how we choose to organise our police, so that we should get hold of and deal properly with the most important issues, the most serious issues, the most complicated issues. I sincerely believe that without the near-police reform, we would not have a police force that is rusted in a way that is absolutely necessary if we are to deal with these kinds of issues. So I'm very happy that we've got this in place. I also expect that we see a clear prioritisation of these matters. Because it's clear that when we discuss things like this, there's often talk about what the police have. The tools may be important in themselves, but it does not help with tools if there is no internal police priority, if these matters are not organised in such a way that you are able to investigate and address the challenges that we know lie there. And it's about status. It is about the fact that the police have to choose to lift these matters up as some of the most important issues they are dealing with. In addition to the obviously important task of the police in such matters, it is also important that we think of other things that are needed by those who are victims of trafficking. It's about a place to live, it's about getting an education, it's about getting help to get out of prostitution, and so on. So here we have a big problem in front of us, which has started a long time ago, but with which we haven't achieved the goal, and which we have to intensify if we're ever going to get into the goal. I would like to comment a little on the suggestions that lie there. In Case No. 10 we're going to support the setting, except for VIII – as the Workers' Party, we're going to go against it. In Case No. 11 there are a number of proposals from SV. There we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox I see that proposal No. 1 is a very good proposal, but I understand that it is already taken care of in the committee's position. In Case No. 12, which is also an interesting and important matter, we have decided to vote against I. Our starting point is that the proposal as it stands now is too far and too little precise, but I believe that there will be a large majority on this issue, which will, of course, give us an opportunity to assess the concrete proposals when the Minister of Justice returns to Stortinget with one thing, and of course we shall do so in the greatest seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2389	I would first like to thank the rapporteurs, thank you for the good committee work and thank you to the rapporteur. It is a pleasure to take part in the debate on justice, for once, when the sum of the proposals that are being promoted can make as big a difference as these proposals can make, and when the committee's work bears the mark of having been as good as it has been. That's SV's starting point from the things we're dealing with right now. I think it is very gratifying to see that one can agree on an understanding framework of our time's slavery and the type of action and action to combat it. I think that's a pleasure. The reason I took the floor now was that I would like to address the SV's proposal in case no. 11th@item: inlistbox We have tabled five proposals. One is a clearer clarification: ‘The government is asking for better protection and housing for victims of trafficking in human beings.’ Of course, we are going to vote in favour of the vote if this proposal does not get a majority, and they do not have to be opposed to each other. We also promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen support measures for people in prostitution in the revised national budget for 2016.’ Then we promote a proposal that we clarify: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Sex Purchases Act, which prohibits the purchase of sex, is enforced.’ It is about seeing that there are different practices from place to place in the different districts and cities, that we want to have uniform enforcement of the law, and that that crime should be taken equally seriously everywhere. We heard at the latest today that there is a celebration for the purchase of sexual services during the Christmas season. Then we want the Stortinget to send out a signal that you have to be on guard here, and that it is an important task throughout the year. We also promote proposals for regional centres of excellence related to monitoring the situation of prostitutes and measures to help people out of the situation. It is important precisely to be able to get the overall picture of the situation of people in prostitution living in, and few tailor-made measures that help them to alternative ways of life that are better for people in the long term. In particular, it is a proposal to ensure that young people who disappear from receptions are sought and that specific measures are put in place to prevent them from being exposed to trafficking in human beings. We have ugly numbers, we have disappearances, and we see that the efforts in the case of those kids who disappear are not necessarily as large as if there had been children from other institutions or children who had lived longer in Norway, who disappeared. These are particularly vulnerable young people, which requires special efforts to protect them from exploitation and from trafficking in human beings. I would like to close my article and thank you again for the ‘steike good’ work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2421	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2424	The last statement I can join a hundred percent more. I think it is fantastic that the Stortinget in this way – both through the initiative of the proposers, the work that has taken place in the committee, the debate we have today, and all the proposals that are being adopted today – have really raised the fight against trafficking in human beings as a really big and important flagship for the Storinget, which is also very much in line with the government's priorities in this area. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for having unloaded this in port in such a way that there are such broad and good compromises as this has led to. It is an area that has gradually been given a lot of attention, and it is strange that in 2015 we are in a situation in which slave trade is simply conducted. There's something you in a modern world really shouldn't be able to imagine should happen. But it does, and it is in this area that in some other serious crime areas much worse than many think. There are serious abuses both in terms of prostitution, in terms of gross exploitation of labour, and in terms of the purchase and sale of human beings. That is why I am very pleased that the Storting in this way underlines this as clearly as the Storing does by having all these proposals adopted today. Unfortunately, there are also large numbers of darknesses in Norway and still major challenges. We see correctly that the number of reviews has gone up a lot in recent years. In 2012 there were 48 reviews, in 2013 there were 70, and in 2014 there were 106 reviews. But here too is the great darkness. This is an area where we would like the notification rate to be significantly higher, but it is demanding. At the same time, we see developments in case law. I want to mention some judges, and I want to make it clear that not everyone is right. On 19 January of this year, Oslo District Court sentenced the chief of a group of eight Romanian citizens to beg and theft for two years and six months. The Court of First Instance ruled on 2 July in which the principal of the exploitation of three Indian nationals for seasonal work in gardens was punished by imprisonment for five years and six months for serious trafficking in human beings and other conditions. By judgment of 28 September in Oslo District Court, two men were sentenced to five and four years in prison. They were convicted of trafficking in human beings by exploiting two Bulgarian women for prostitution. The actions were carried out as part of the activities of an organised criminal group, so that Section 60(a) of the Criminal Code applied. It will also start up more major issues over the New Year, among others. a main negotiation on two major issues relating to trafficking in human beings in the retail and agricultural sectors. Gradually, we also get judges who really underline the seriousness of this kind of crime. I also want to say that this is an area that has received some attention in history. It's important to remember what's actually been done: $15 million. kr to specialised investigation teams in five police districts. Indeed, efforts will be dramatically improved when the near-police reform becomes a reality. I would like to refer to Mr Nybø's intervention in this regard, where she is concerned that one of the important elements of the motivation behind the reform of the neighbourhood police is to have specialised investigation teams. Trafficking in human beings is specifically mentioned in this respect. That's set to seven million. for measures to combat trafficking in human beings in Norway. Various housing and follow-up measures have been supported, and ROSA has also been strengthened. I am particularly excited that this matter is now being dealt with. It is almost good that the new action plan on trafficking in human beings has been somewhat delayed, because there is a lot of good food in the proposals presented in the Stortinget today, which is a natural part of the follow-up to the action plan that we will launch in a relatively short time. Finally, I would like to mention briefly that I also think the proposal from the Central Party is good. The centre party said that it was not common for them to get a pass on their proposals. I don't entirely agree with that. They are getting through to the proposals that are good enough for them to have a majority, and this is definitely it. Even today, there is a potential criminal liability for that type of rent through the participation provision and, in fact, the whole of the provision may also be a current provision. I think it makes sense that this proposal now has a majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2439	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2442	UN conventions we've signed up to also apply to the protection of victims. The human trafficking team at Oslo Police District believes that many of the prostitutes in Oslo are victims of human trafficking. At the same time, Nadheim reports that foreign prostitutes are being transported out of Norway in a very short time. Several women have said that they have been offered by the PU to pick up their assets, before they are then driven to Trandum or quickly transported out. Does the Council of State believe that the rapid deportation of prostitutes facilitates the detection of trafficking in human beings, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that the police do what they can to detect whether prostitutes are exposed to human trafficking before they are transported?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2447	I really think that is a very good question – I want to divide it into two. One is that it is important to distinguish between foreign prostitutes and foreign prostitutes who have been exposed to human trafficking. If we assume that we can take that distinction, one can't in general say that the rapid transport of foreign persons who have run prostitution is wrong or negative in any way. As regards the second issue, which concerns what one will do to facilitate the identification of the type of person who has been exposed to trafficking in human beings, there is an important follow-up action for the Foreign Office of the Police in all these cases, where they shall have the necessary competence to assess whether they have been likely to be exposed to trafficking in human beings. It has been stated that, to the extent that information is provided to indicate that these persons may have been exposed to trafficking in human beings, it shall be forwarded to the relevant authorities prior to the shipment. So despite the fact that the PU will not make any assessment of this, they will be able to pass the information on to the decision-making authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2456	I just have a little follow-up question. State councils say there are differences between prostitutes and prostitutes who are at risk of trafficking in human beings. I think that some of what we have said in these cases today just shows that this distinction is difficult to figure out. One must use time to actually investigate whether this is the case, for these are women who are so threatened that they rarely say in the first round that they are victims of human trafficking. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Council of State believe that the practice that PU has applied here, despite the fact that the Council of State says it can do so afterwards, is sufficient to ensure these women the opportunity that they will have under both the UN Conventions and the decisions that we take here in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2463	What I am referred to in PU's practice does not entirely agree with what the representative refers to. I have to deal with the fact that the PU can tell them that they have such a focus when they get information that people in the prostitution environment who are going to be transported can be exposed to human trafficking, and based on the information I've received so far, I think it's justifiable. So there could be examples that something has gone wrong, or that the examples from the representative are correct, and then I think it is necessary to look into it to see whether there are aspects of the practice that should be followed, but based on what I have got from information so far, there is no general practice that would be contrary to neither our international obligations nor the decisions we make in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2468	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the proposers, as well as the case-speakers and the Council of State for being present when it comes to these matters, so that is the right atmosphere in the Justice Committee today. But we also need to ask some more critical questions. The government has also announced that they will present a new action plan against trafficking in human beings. The previous plan went out in 2014, something one knew about, and as a result, the government could start working on a new plan in 2013. My question is: can the Council of States fix the deadline for the next action plan on trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2473	Let me first thank the representative Awake! for thanking everyone. The good mood may be due to the rumor that there is some sort of Christmas closing for the committees tonight. And you might want to try to have it more often, because it gives very productive results anyway, it looks like it does. When it comes to the work of the government's action plan against trafficking in human beings, I don't want to give any concrete date, but we've been working on this for a long time. We're in the final question of putting it forward. I would also like to add that some of the things that have emerged in the proposals, and what is now adopted in the Stortinget, are natural to shirk when that action plan is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2480	I get to start by thanking you for a good post, and I'm also very happy for the consensus that's here. My question is also on the action plan. In December 2014, I asked the Council of State when the action plan came, and it was ‘right around the corner’. Now we are in December 2015. I'm aware that there have been many cases, there has been a lot of things that have happened, and the Council of State is running a busy department. But the action plan is important, and I remember – when I look back at interviews too – that the Council of State itself underlined the importance of the action plan to the police in order to prioritise, etc. As the Council of State says, the Storting will today adopt many important measures, which I am pleased that the Council of State is also behind and has been involved in having received, and he has given a good response letter to the Committee. But that is why I would like to stress the seriousness of the fact that the 2015 action plan for 2019, or what it is now, should come immediately. I would like to encourage that as many of the proposals put forward here should be implemented quickly in that action plan, giving the Council of State the opportunity to respond when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2485	The corner I said I was going to round, in December 2014, was a little longer than I had anticipated at that time. But we are in the final question of the action plan now, and it will be presented not so far beyond the New Year. I don't like dating it, but we also want to spend some time adding a part of what's natural to input from what's happening here today, and then we'll come up with the action plan as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2491	Here in the Storting there is disagreement about the sex laws, and those of us who think it is right that the sex laws were signed, obviously also mean that it is essential that the laws are enforced, and that action is taken against prostitution. The Minister of Justice represents a party that voted against this sex-purchase law, and so he is responsible for the enforcement of a law that conflicts with the own party program, and, as far as I know, against his own opinion. I would like to ask him how much priority he attaches to the work against trafficking in human beings in the form of prostitution, and how much emphasis he attaches to the police prioritizing the enforcement of sex-purchase laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2496	In the case of the Sex Purchases Act, an evaluation of it has been carried out and there will be a large-scale notification of that evaluation and follow-up of the Sex Purchases Act in a certain period of time. As regards the enforcement of the Sex Purchases Act, it is an area which falls primarily within the scope of the Public Prosecutor’s Office. I assume that Norwegian law will be enforced, and that applies in all areas. In the case of prostitution related to trafficking in human beings, there is a specifically mentioned area that both I and the National Attorney have mentioned in the prioritisation. So this is an area that, overall, is highly prioritised also from this Council of States, of course. I'll deal with the decisions this house makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2503	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2508	It is an important topic addressed through these representatives' proposals, and the issues we are dealing with today have boundaries towards this theme which shows that it is not just through a single case that trafficking in human beings is being dealt with. Trafficking in human beings is a serious crime that affects very vulnerable people, which makes them even more vulnerable as time passes, and when those affected do not get the necessary help and support. There are many different forms of trafficking in human beings, either by exploitation of prostitution, for forced labour, for war service or, in fact, for organ trafficking. Those who are victims of trafficking in human beings have not agreed to participate, or have been involved in false premises, for example. with promises of work and a better future. Unfortunately, despite considerable efforts at both national and international level, there is little evidence to suggest that the number of people who are victims of trafficking in human beings is falling. But we never have to give up. The first action plan on trafficking in women and children was drawn up by the Bondevik II government in 2003 and has been followed up by two more plans, and a new one is expected by this government, as we have now heard. But plans are one thing, the most important is action. I am therefore pleased that the government, in conjunction with the cooperation parties, has strengthened the police through all our submitted budgets, and I expect this reinforcement to also be shown in terms of prioritisation of investigations and, therefore, the appeal of the backers of trafficking in human beings. While we're doing what we need to do to find and punish backers, it's important to help those who are victims. Here I want to highlight the good efforts of non-governmental organisations to help the victims, and I am pleased that the government has helped to simplify the application procedures for Laura's house, as well as that the government is focusing on raising the efforts and importance of voluntary organisations in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2521	There are three important things, and like several previous speakers, I would like to thank for the great and strong commitment shown here by a close-up total. There are three good proposals from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center parties we are debating and dealing with today, and it makes what they are concerned about, what the government is concerned about, and what I experience in the debate is that the remaining parties also care a lot. Fortunately, the police reform provided us with the opportunity to step up our efforts in all the police districts of the country in the fight against trafficking in human beings. Making police districts bigger makes it possible to establish stronger and wider professional environments that can meet this challenge. For this is heavy matters, there are demanding matters, there are complicated matters. Prostitution may be the problem area most often associated with trafficking in human beings, but the problem we are talking about is, of course, much larger. The criminality of work has come firmly within us and is also an important part of the scale of trafficking in human beings. That is why I am also very pleased that it is addressed in this debate and in these proposals, and that we have addressed, not least in previous cases – not least the close police reform mentioned – how we, as a society, must meet the challenges of labour-related crime. I would like to mention one of the proposals specifically. This concerns the proposal of the Christian People's Party in Document 8:91 S. In VIII of the suspension, it is a proposal to further investigate the provision of powers to the police in relation to the use of instruments for the control of communications. Right-wing support, of course. However, I would like to stress that we are living at a time when defence, police and society as such are faced with new challenges and where the demand for new methods is becoming stronger. In those contexts, we need to see this more as a whole and discuss technology, security and privacy in a wider context. We have to be careful not to discuss this unilaterally, for just one social reason. This is related, and it has to be discussed afterwards. Finally, I would like to mention another element that no one has been involved in. It is the term ‘rescue obligation’. Every citizen has a self-employed obligation to notify in order to prevent serious crime. It also affects the areas under consideration in this matter. It should be an important reminder that we from Stortinget refer to the responsibility we all have to combat crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2534	I would like to add a few words to Jenny Klinge's proposal for a representative, and myself, about the fact that the lessor can be held responsible for illegal activities in premises that are rented out. On April 16, this year, VG wrote: ‘During the operation, one of the employees of the laundry said that the monthly salary was NOK 1800 per month. He also informed me that he worked eight hours a day, five days a week. It corresponds to an hourly salary of NOK 11.25 – the holder gets things to answer for. You see the conditions here. It's a terrible, outspoken police officer and action leader Alf-Magne Fredriksen at the Oslo Police Department." Two of the employees at the laundry room were not allowed to stay or work in Norway. “Five days after the washroom was notified by both the police and the Labour Inspectorate, the customers are waiting to get a clean car,” writes VG on 20 April. "This is slavery," said police officer Alf-Magne Fredriksen, and the same Fredriksen says that he responds to the fact that the laundry room has opened again so quickly: "I'm a little confused about this. In this case, the owner was not apprehended. Maybe he should have been brought in and put in the arrest." The paper writes: ‘The Vaskehallen was notified on Tuesday, inter alia, for the use of illegal labour. This usually involves a fine of between 30,000 and 80,000 kroner.» And on the other hand, ‘Now he wants to change the law in the fight against illegal activities. – I think the lessor should be held responsible for the illegalities that occur in the premises he rents out. My impression is that the landlord in most cases knows exactly what is happening, but gives the scam as long as the money rolls in, says the policeman." The Labour Inspectorate was also concerned, and Knut Morten Alvestad in the Labour Inspectorate is sure that many landlords are fully aware that people are being exploited in the Oslo car washrooms: ‘We know that some car rental companies pay up to 70,000 kroner a month in rent. With low car wash prices you will have to wash an unlikely number of cars, in order to serve the rent, pay wages and government charges." I'm glad it's a unanimous committee. The council said there's something in a modern world that you don't think could happen. Well, I guess it's just in the modern world that we live in, that it happens. That's exactly it. We have to listen to those who are in the first line, we have to add to the naivety, we have to check the boundaries of those who come from outside the Nordic region, so that we have a better overview, otherwise this spreads like a bacterium, destroys Norwegian working life and causes the serious ones to have significant problems. But I am pleased with a unanimous decision by the Committee and hope that the Council of State will follow this up quickly through a concrete legislative formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2573	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to commend the proposers even more in order to make this proposal. Prior to the proposal being made, the Christian People's Party held a seminar on trafficking in human beings. There is a very good tradition many parties on Stortinget have in making suggestions – that one invites widely and gets a lot of good impressions. There was a special post from the Oslo Police Department that I noticed at that recording seminar. He who represented the Oslo police there, said quite clearly that one of the most important tools the police had been given to combat trafficking in human beings and prostitution, was the Sex Purchases Act. It seemed to me to be good to the right, because it is clear that many people think in this room was – and perhaps still is – a somewhat demanding debate. But at least it was the representative of the Oslo police at that seminar very clearly. Then I want to support what is said about knowledge in the school. I think we have a lot to do when it comes to getting a better content to build sticks in the school. In addition to watching videos and documentaries, the purely educational content of the school can be strengthened when it comes to all of these themes. So a little bit about the action plan, because it's important that we get him in place. According to Ropstad, the plan was just around the corner in 2014 too – it was a bit of a long corner, in a way! I'm thinking here it's important to get the speed up. We know that action plans have an impact both because they link sectors together and because they require them, and they also often require budgetary work. Then I will also support what Anders B. Werp says about the averting obligation – it is very important. At the same time, we know that for people to report to the police, it is important that you have confidence that things are followed up and not laid down, and that you get to investigate them properly. I would also like to mention the police reform, on which the Labour Party was also involved and made a compromise. We have great expectations of what it will mean both for a strengthened research environment and in the work against it in a preventive perspective – perhaps most of all in the big cities, but also throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2584	I want to end with what I should have started the debate with – thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. This is a matter that has been agreed across policy lines. It's actually quite natural, because these issues, especially the issue of trafficking in human beings, challenge basic moral principles. ‘All but are created equal’, wrote the Founding Fathers in the American Declaration of Independence, the precursor of the Declaration of Human Rights. When you're exposed to human trafficking, there's no human dignity anymore. Man is humiliated by the most cruel. The fight against trafficking in human beings is, in fact, the battle for human dignity. The proposal of the centre party may have received little attention – it actually deserves a little more. It is a proposal that limits more to the criminality of work. We've had a number of issues about work-life crime that have been revealed in the last year, and the fight against work-life crime is the fight for a decent working life, and that's the struggle for the welfare state and the social benefits we have to continue to exist. Finally, I would like to comment on the SV's proposal, proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox It is a proposal with good intentions, but at the same time it is a proposal that can be interpreted widely and that has no natural demarcation. The Right Party and the Progressive Party will vote in favour of this proposal on the condition that, to the extent that it is a quite obvious condition, the Government will investigate this further and may come back to the Storting and, where appropriate, explain any problems which may be related to the proposal. On that condition, the two parties to the government also vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2597	I take the floor first and foremost to follow up the SV's proposal, which has been distributed. There are five different proposals, and I have a explanation of vote on them. As regards proposal No: 1 on housing offers, Christian People's Party will not support it because it is almost equivalent to I in the proposal for a decision on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox That is well taken care of in the proposal adopted there. In order to strengthen the relief measures for women and men in prostitution in the revised national budget for 2016, there is a budgetary matter. We're going to take that fight there, just like we did when we got more money into that post last year. It is probably increased from approx. Ten million. NOK 20 million. kr. Proposal No. 3 is about ensuring that the Sex Purchases Act is enforced. I really take that as a matter of course, and especially after the Council of State of course decided here that every law should be enforced. We are going to support the proposal, but I assume, in any case, that those who vote in favour of it will want the law to be enforced. I just want to stress that there is a difference between police districts and police districts, which someone was in here. Someone pulled out Sogn and Fjordane, who have their own people working both to follow the law and to take those who buy sex. Not least, they follow up the victims in a nice way, and they try to see how they are doing, in order to possibly be able to help them further. Proposal No. 4 is about their own regional centres of excellence. It sounds like a good proposal, but I am not willing to jump right on that proposal. I think that needs to be further investigated before possible adoption, but that is a good input that we take into account in our work further. Proposal No. 5, to ensure that children who disappear from receptions are sought out, and not least that one also prevents them from being exposed to trafficking in human beings and prostitution, I think is a very good proposal. We have a similar proposal from the Christian People's Party for consideration in the Municipal Committee. I take it as a matter of course that it is being done today, but we know that unfortunately that is not the case, because there are several hundred children who have disappeared from Norwegian reception, so that work needs to be improved. So we're going to support proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox – Summary: We will support the proposals No. 3 and 5, from SV. Finally, some words about Werep's articles. He makes an important point with regard to VIII in the proposal for a decision on case No. 10, on communication control. Seeing these things in the context, I think Werp has had some good points about before, too, and I hope that I will be part of the matter that will come from the Council of State, when we know that in his letter of reply he alerts that there will be more in this field. At least it is important that this is taken, and that there is a matter of it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2614	Like many others, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the three motions for resolutions for joint consideration. They address current but very important issues related to what we are facing. It's about trafficking in human beings, especially in prostitution. It is about the raw exploitation of labour, of individuals, who have long working days and do not get a wage to live on. Raw exploitation of labour by social dumping is today's form of slavery. Social dumping is a major problem for individuals, but also for society as a whole. With this in mind, the Government of Stoltenberg promoted three action plans related to social dumping, with a number of proposals to follow up and counter this in the future. There are proposals developed in cooperation with the social partners to have targeted action to combat this. This is about how we're going to meet these challenges in the future. Then we must have a government that is offensive. That is why it is very important that the Committee now closes up on many individual proposals, but these proposals should have come from the government and not from representatives. It's about taking this seriously. We need increased competence. These are industries that are very vulnerable, and social dumping is undermining vocational education, and it undermines industries in view of future education and youth education today. Social dumping undermines important social systems and trust in the system we have. The Norwegian labour model – between the state, employers and employees – is the very foundation of the welfare society we have, and must be respected by all parties. Labour and undeclared work contribute to a reduction in the country's tax revenue and to a weakening of the economic basis of our common well-being. Work on the crime of working life will never end. Therefore, it is important that we have a government that is not sitting quietly in the boat, but actively rudders to meet these challenges in the future. The Workers' Party has proposed using 26 million in its alternative budget. We are also proposing to set up two new anti-crime centres for working life. It's about being offensive in interaction with the social partners to meet the challenges we're facing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2625	It was very good atmosphere right up to the last speaker. I simply felt that the post was so full of errors and that it was missing that it was absolutely necessary to take the word. I wish I didn't, and I would have let that happen if the representative Asphjell had got along with the working life strategy that the government has promoted, the measures that we have actually implemented in this area, and took care to listen to both what I said in my post, what the government's representatives said in their posts, and what is actually under the government's work. So I hope and believe that the mood we have had today, in the Committee's work on these three very important issues, will continue, and that the last speaker before me will not be able to see through to create some sort of doubt as to whether there is a real political commitment to individual parties and to the government on this issue. I simply do not think that this important matter deserves to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2631	Has Harek Elvenes asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2634	Replica.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2639	Replica? No, there are no lines now, but the Harek Rivers can get the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2642	Then there was a brief comment, and the brief comment goes to the representative Asphjell. There is an obvious fact that the representative has passed the house, and it is that the government in its government budget has actually allocated funds to two new employment centres, so that in the last two years five new employment centres will have come into place. So in sum, this government has allocated 30 million. kr for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2647	Then Bård Hoksrud has asked for the word if he is in the hall – no. During the psevdonymet Bård Hoksrud, Kari Henriksen has asked for the floor. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2650	At least I've done mine to get the good mood back. I just need to say that it is right that we all make proposals on two labour centres in this case, but it is also true that there are political differences in the response to social dumping and that there are differences in what the various parties have promoted in terms of social dumping measures. I think you can be so honest to say that, and then it doesn't have to ruin the mood either tonight or another day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2657	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10, 11, and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2671	This is also a proposal and a matter of great agreement within the Committee. The proposal concerns changes in several laws: the Child Abduction Act, the Child Protection Act, the Criminal Code of 2005 and the Law on Legal Assistance. These are proposals for changes to the law to help solve international child Abduction cases in Norway more quickly than today, and to ensure that the child can be heard. This is a very important matter that the entire committee is happy to be brought forward now. The fight against international child Abduction is very important for the Judicial Committee. It was for the previous government, and it is for this government. Step-by-step measures have a sharp legal framework to prevent, detect and resolve child abduction cases. The aim of the various amendments is to strengthen the child perspective of the cases and to address both civil and criminal cases. There are a number of suggestions for changes in the proposition. I'm not going to go through every single one of them in detail, but I'm going through what changes it's about. A proposal to centralise the jurisdiction of child abduction cases to one court, to introduce a shorter appeal period in child abduction cases, to cover the costs of experts, to introduce a rule on the enforcement of a judicial decision on the return of children by appeal, and to extend the rules on free legal assistance in child abduction cases. The Committee also notes, and supports, that it is now proposed to legislate for central government powers to inform the Child Protection Service both where a child has been abducted to Norway and where a kidnapped child has been returned to Norway. It is also proposed to extend the criminal liability of Section 261 of the Criminal Code so that child-reduction from child-restraint after, among other things. Emergency decisions are made punishable. This is in line with what the Justice Committee has said earlier. The Central Party and the Workers' Party proposed in Document 8:71 to the Government to request a change of law on this matter as soon as possible. Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party looked forward to a quick presentation of this. So it must mean that a joint committee is very pleased with the response that the government has come with in this case, then you have to think of it as "rapid", what one here puts forward. Finally, I would like to point out that it is also proposed to introduce exit bans into the Child Protection Act once a case has been sent to the county, introduce a rule that decisions in the county are valid for one year at a time in the event that there is reason to believe that a child has been abducted abroad, and to introduce an obligation from the child protection service to provide information to the governing powers at the child's place of residence when a child has been abducted from child protection. So it's a joint committee that supports all the proposals in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2688	I would first like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation in this matter. This is probably a government proposal that will strengthen children's rights. That's what it's all about, even though we also know the feeling that parents are exposed to when their children disappear abroad or are otherwise abducted without feeling that you have so many tools in your own toolbox. This is a proposal that will strengthen the rights of the child and will better address the case by the Norwegian side. I also believe that some of these proposals could serve as an example internationally to show how Norway solves this. Instead of looking at others, it's the other thing that can actually look at us. I think we should be happy about that. I'm not going to go into the details of the proposal. I think the rapporteur presented the substance of the proposal in a good manner. But the fact that we reach e.g. chooses a centralised court to deal with all these cases, contributes to greater legal certainty, greater efficiency and ensures that one has the necessary competence to deal with those cases. It will strengthen the legal certainty of the children, and it will also make it easier to run some of these cases. There is also a question of consultation of children in this proposal. It has not been satisfactorily followed up in the past. Now it's going to be that. Children shall now be given the opportunity to express themselves in a better manner. I mention it because it was one of the things that the rapporteur did not have in mind. I am very pleased that this is a unanimous attitude, and that the rapporteur well explained the importance of these changes. It is often the case in political everyday life that there is a lot of discussion about politics that is not really very important, while in other areas there is very little political discussion about things that actually matter. It's really like that in this case as well. I say this not to stimulate debate in a day like this, but to stress the importance that when there is no debate, it does not say anything about quality or work being not important. Rather, it can actually indicate the opposite. That's why I wanted to say the few words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2703	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2717	Mr Ebbesen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2720	I'm quite used to being called Margot, but my name is Margunn. The Committee has considered Prop. 10 L on amendments to the Law on Fees – Adjustment of Fees. It is a unanimous committee that agrees with the government’s proposal to increase the legal fee by 19.2 p.m., which is in line with the evolution of the consumer price index from January 2006 to November 2014. In addition, the Ministry proposes to reduce the multiplier for mortality, death and deportation. Finally, it should be noted that, in the context of the processing of new land change laws in the event of an incubation, the necessary amendments to the Law on Legal Fees have not been made. Therefore, at the request of the Ministry, the Committee has proposed to include the word ‘judgment in the right to change’ in the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 11 of the Law on Legal Fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2747	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 15th In the light of the good mood and the upcoming event, the President will wish the Judicial Committee a good Christmas table and a memory of the temptations that can be experienced at such events according to today's news. There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e2757	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3073	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3083	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3091	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Section 14 A-1, second paragraph, shall read as follows: a non-compete clause may be invoked only to the extent necessary to satisfy the specific need of protection of the employer from competition. [[2]] The clause may in no case apply for more than six months from the end of the employment relationship.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «§ 14 A-3 first and second paragraphs shall read as follows: If a non-compete clause is applied, the employer shall pay compensation to the employee corresponding to the employee's remuneration. [[1]] The compensation is calculated on the basis of compensation of employees earned in the 12 months preceding the date of termination or dismissal. If the wage or salary exceeds 14 times the basic salary, the excess does not need to be included in the calculation. [[2]] Compensation for compensation of employees’ or labour income received or earned by the employee during the period of effect of the non-compete obligation shall be deducted from the remuneration referred to in the first subparagraph.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3219	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to the second paragraph of Section II(14A-1) and the first and second subparagraphs of Section 14A-3 and the proposal of the Centre Party No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3232	The remainder of II and I and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3242	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3252	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3260	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Day Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for partial leave-outs down to 40 per cent to provide a basis for daily allowance.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3288	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to file for amendment of the payroll law during the period of leave in order to reduce the employer's period of leave from 10 to 5 days.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the legislation on permitting so that the period of time during which the employer is exempt from compulsory pay is increased from 30 to 52 weeks.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e3326	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen put forward a proposal, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law of 16 December 1966 No 9 on appeals to the Social Security Court The King appoints for four years a selection of members of the medical team. [[8]] About half of the members shall have special skill in the matters dealt with by the Social Security Court. Those appointed shall be obliged to act as members of the Social Security Court. Electable are men and women who have reached the age of 18 and who are capable of election in municipal elections. The first paragraph of § 74 and § 100 shall apply mutatis mutandis. [[9]] A member of the court is independent in dealing with appeals and appeals. Members of the courts shall carry out their activities in a manner that provides general trust and respect. Section 6 is replaced by the following: The head of the Social Security Court may provide detailed rules on the preparation of the case and on the composition of the court in each case, and may empower permanent members of the Social Security Court to withdraw or appoint members of the medical team. Paragraph 7 of the third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: where the case raises difficult points of law or of evidence and is to be put with three members, up to two members may be members with special skill in the proceedings. Paragraph 7 of the fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: In cases where it is to be assumed that the judgment of the Court of Justice may become the rule of law in a matter of law, the Court of First Instance may be seised of five members. Two members are taken from the Legislature Committee. Where a case is to be brought with five members, the parties shall be informed thereof without delay. The question of setting the Court of First Instance with five members shall be settled by the President of the Court of First Instance. Paragraph 7 fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: A legally qualified member shall be the administrator of the court. Members and legal representatives of temporary staff may be administrators, with the exception of the cases referred to in the fourth subparagraph. The question of setting the right of two or three members shall be decided by the administrator of the court, with the exception of the cases referred to in point (d) of the second subparagraph. Paragraph 7 sixth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the administrator and the other members of the court, with the exception of any members of the court, shall be appointed at random, unless there are material grounds for deviating. In cases where members of the medical team are appointed, members of the Committee of Legislature shall be appointed by appointment for the appointment of members of the medical team with special skill in matters of procedure. If a medical member is invalid or is in default, he shall be withdrawn or another member shall be appointed in his/her place. Otherwise, members are removed on drawdown. The head of the Social Security Court may decide that the same lawyers shall serve in several cases. [[1]] [[2]] Paragraph 32 shall be replaced by the following: the convocation of members of the medical profession, parties, witnesses and experts shall convene members of the medical profession in the manner deemed appropriate by the court. [[3]] The Social Security Court shall convene a hearing of the parties, witnesses and experts, if necessary by way of service. The rules of the Service Act apply as far as they apply. Paragraph 33 shall be replaced by the following: Compensation to members of the medical team, witnesses and experts For members of the medical team who have served in the court, remuneration shall be provided in accordance with the rules and rates laid down by the King. Witnesses and experts are entitled to compensation under the law of 21 July 1916 No. 2 on the remuneration of witnesses and experts, etc.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4354	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4364	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4409	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4419	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4427	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 28 July 1949 26 on the State pension fund is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5 is replaced by the following: Employees employed in the service of the State are members of the State pension fund. Paragraph 5, first paragraph, second, third and fourth sentences are deleted. In the law of 26 June 1953 no. 11 on a pharmacy pension scheme, etc. point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: In the law of 22 June 1962 No. 12 if the pension scheme for nurses is amended as follows: Section 2 is replaced by the following: Temporary or probationary nurse is included in the pension scheme. § 3 is replaced by the following: § 3. Except for membership: nurse who, at the age limit, will not receive a total pensioner’s period of service of at least 5 years. The Ministry may exempt from the pension scheme nurses who, because of the position referred to in the first and second subparagraphs of Section 1, are covered by another pension scheme which is considered equivalent to the pension scheme under that law, or where there are other specific reasons for doing so.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4556	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4566	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4574	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate, with a view to presenting proposals, a change in the rule for widows’/widows’ pension under Chapter 7 of the State Pension Fund Act, so that cohabitants entitled to inherit under the Chapter of the Inheritance Act. IIIA shall be treated in the same way as spouses in respect of the right to a widow's/widower's pension.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4607	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a legislative amendment to enable the establishment of equivalent pension schemes irrespective of the type of operation, as set out in the Annex. The Nursing Scheme, or gives employees the right to retain at least the same good retirement benefits as before in the privatisation of public sector activities.» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4633	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider how to prevent the use of tenders in the public sector, including in the case of transfer of business and change of supplier, from weakening the pension conditions of employees.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4666	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 2-12, by Kirsti Bergstø, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 13, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 13 are made available to the representatives. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose that child welfare be excluded from the measurement of social assistance.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to increase the sibling supplement in child-restraint, with particular emphasis on families with three or more children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4700	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 5-7, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to increase child-restraint for lone dependants.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to adjust child welfare in line with wage growth.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the lump-sum subsidy.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the qualification programme so that more people are trained and helped to get to work.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4734	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the offer of support for holidays for children in economically disadvantaged families.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4751	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8-10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the Jobjesen initiative so that more people can get help to get into work.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the system of free core time in kindergarten and SFO’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the housing support scheme for families with children’. The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4780	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an analysis of the economic needs to raise households with children to a level of income that reduces the differences between the availability of these children and young people for different benefits and opportunities and further asks for an assessment of the economic consequences of this in the short and longer term.’ The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4797	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose that child welfare, cash support and children’s gifts and income be excluded from the measurement of benefits under the social services law and housing support law.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4814	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children have access to equipment loans for leisure activities and that children from economically disadvantaged families have access to similar experience cards organised either under the government or under the authority of non-governmental organisations.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4848	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up two new centres for the crime of working life as soon as possible.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4866	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider making Laura’s House a permanent measure.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4941	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on VIII. The Labour Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4954	The Committee shall then vote on the position of I-VII and IX and X.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4964	The Committee shall then be consulted on the position of the Committee on XI.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e4978	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals have been made available to the representatives. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen support measures for people in prostitution in the revised national budget for 2016.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up its own regional centres of excellence in the major urban areas to work on monitoring the situation and relief measures of prostitutes. People need to be helped out of prostitution through long-term follow-up to new ways of life and economic security.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5000	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for better protection and housing for victims of trafficking in human beings.’ The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5017	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Sex Purchases Act, which prohibits the purchase of sex, is enforced.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5034	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children who disappear from asylum are sought and that specific measures are put in place to prevent them from being exposed to trafficking in human beings and exploited in prostitution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5069	It shall be heard on the position of the Committee in relation to I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5081	The Committee's position on IV shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5107	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5120	It is then voted on the Committee's position on II.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5316	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5326	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5405	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e5415	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-07.ana.ud1652e6027	Thus, today's map has been processed. If no one asks for the floor, the meeting may be cancelled. - It can.
