ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e131	The representatives of Tor André Johnsen, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Hege Haukeland Liadal, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Busherud County: Lavrans Kjerulf For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag From the meeting of the Deputy Representative of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinget from 17 March until further notice, due to disease, under the authority of the representative Anna Ljunggren. An application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinget on 17 and 18 March under the leave of the representative of Marianne Aasen is submitted by the requested alternate of the district of Akershus, Are Health. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates for Akershus and Nordland counties, Anne Odenmarck and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, respectively, are called to meet in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e182	Anne Odenmarck and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren are present and will take the seat. The application for welfare leave is submitted by the representative Rasmus Hansson on Tuesday 17 March. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the product Une Aina Bastholm is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Une Aina Bastholm is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e197	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham and Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e207	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e210	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on sound limit values for particulate matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e215	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will draw attention to the fact that today's meeting continues beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e231	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It is understood to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e238	On the issue of further developing sustainable development indicators, the Committee agrees on the importance of these indicators. The Minister of Finance writes in his letter to the Committee on the importance of good income development, which is to ‘make it easier to take account of sustainable development’. The Committee welcomes the view of the Minister that environmental considerations should be more closely integrated into policy-making in all areas. We all agree that it is appropriate to regularly assess whether the most relevant indicators have been taken into account. The most important and crucial is how they are used for economic policy, and the degree to which policies and actions are designed and justified, in order to reverse the development of wrong-looking indicators. It is important to follow developments in developing countries and to combat poverty — how Norway deals with the least developed countries, emissions of greenhouse gases, biodiversity, cultural heritage, natural resources, energy use, management of fishing resources with precautionary thresholds, development of distribution of income, educational attainment, hazardous substances to health and the environment and public finances. Labour and competence are the main sources of future income, even in the oil country of Norway. The definition of sustainable development is – as we have read – a development that meets today’s needs without destroying the ability of future generations to meet their needs. In the world today, there is a growing gap between poor and rich. Most of the world’s population lives in poor countries, while people in rich countries use most of the resources. In order to reduce the gap, we need a more even distribution of the world's resources. That means that we need to create an economic system that gives poor countries the opportunity to generate growth. In order for this growth to be sustainable, we need to take account of the environment in the process. This could mean that rich countries can pay for poor countries developing industries that take care of the environment instead of investing in non-renewable resources. We can also contribute to a more even distribution by having a conscious relationship with our own consumption. It was former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland who in his time introduced the words «sustainable development» in the Brundtland report. Sustainable indicators and work must be further developed and clearly integrated into the budgetary process, where the main priorities take place. The 2015 national budget does not provide such an integrated approach. The sustainability indicators have been withdrawn from the 2015 national budget, with the justification that parts of the information are available elsewhere in the national budget or from the Statistical Central Bureau. We hope that this was only a slip from the government and refers to the request decision of 1 December 2014 to ask the government to ‘develop further the report of sustainable development’ in the national budget, ‘with emphasis on green growth’. There are international negotiations on new UN sustainability targets. They shall be adopted as planned at the New York Summit in September 2015. Norway has a central place in the negotiations by being the organiser of the Addis Ababa Summit in July. The Christian People’s Party participates in the promotion of proposals for decisions to ask ‘the Government in 2016 to present a big message on the UN’s new sustainability targets and on how to make them operational in Norwegian policy’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e259	In the fall, the government got a lot of criticism for the climate effort in the state budget. It was mostly about the content of the policy that has been put forward, and as an overall environmental movement and an overall opposition here on the Stortinget did not think it was close enough. But the government also received criticism for the matter we are discussing today. For the first time in many years, the entire sustainability chapter of the state budget had been removed – what gives us unique knowledge about the sustainability of Norwegian society, about how CO2 emissions are going, whether it becomes more or less forest, about how it is with the spawning population, and a number of other indicators that say something about where the country is going. These are important goals for our country. It gives important and unique knowledge, which says a lot about how the government budget is made. It says something about Norway's overall sustainability. Of course, a description alone does not solve any problems, but a description says something about the state, about the policy being pursued, and it is an important tool to pursue a better policy. It says something about the state budget not only to be measured on the heads and ears, but also to be measured on the sustainability. It shows that sustainability is a goal in itself. The Norwegian government thus went counter-clockwise by most other countries in Europe. While country by country discusses how sustainability can become a more important part of the policy, our own government chose to remove the entire chapter with a pen stroke. In the media we can read that this happened against the will of the climate minister. And I almost assume that that's true, that it was not the climate minister himself who proposed to remove this important tool. It is good if the climate minister took the fight internally in the government, and then it is so bad that she lost. That's the way it goes when it's the leader of the Progress Party who has the last word on how to write the state budget. Then it's not sustainability that's on top. It's called a cosmetic change. I think everyone understands that removing the entire chapter on sustainability is not about cosmetics, it's about politics. I think it is good that the Left and Christian People's Party has given the government next year's state budget to talk about sustainability again. There must be some kind of admission that this is actually important. But with today's government and with last year's experience in memory, there's every reason not to feel sure that this is being done in a good enough way. That is why I think it is a pity that the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party do not get a majority today. That would have given the government clear notice. There shall be at least as good reporting on sustainability as it has been in the past. I am afraid, unfortunately, that these proposals will again be raised when the government presents its budget, and we see that the Minister of Finance does not adequately describe the country's sustainability this year either. In September world leaders gather in New York to adopt new sustainability goals. There should be targets that get the same message for all the countries of the world — Canada and Uganda, Bangladesh and Norway. We want the government to succeed in this important work, assuming that they represent us in a good way towards the UN Summit, and that they are working for as offensive a goal for the world as possible. Then we look forward to the important debate on what these objectives should have to say to Norway, on how to change Norwegian policy to meet the UN's new sustainability targets. We therefore ask, together with the Christian People's Party, the other red-green parties and the Green Party for a big message on this matter. We believe that the Stortinget should not in every case ask for a big message. It's a very little constructive way to pursue opposition policy. But this is one of the most important global processes that is going on, which of course must also have something to say for Norwegian policy. That is why we believe that the government should present a communication on the new adopted objectives and on how they should be launched alive here at home. We believe that this could be the basis for good and important debates. We are unfortunately a few votes away from having a majority in favour of this, as the Left chooses to support the government parties today, but we still hope that the government notices this and on its own initiative involves the Storting in this important work. I bring this to the attention of the Labour Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e281	The representative has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e284	There is a strong consensus that the environmental and climate challenges are global challenges that require efforts both nationally and globally. An administrative responsibility and the precautionary principle should underpin all our policy-making and provide a framework for the policy areas of the coming years. Not least, this is important in a generation perspective. The goal of a transition to a low-carbon society by 2015 is necessary and also provides us with opportunities for new value creation, a new green business and a sustainable environment for the growing family. The need for migration in Norway has been high on the agenda recently, and this government is taking action to equip Norway for the future. We need to facilitate investment in new, safe and, not least, green jobs. The draft representative we are discussing today is about further developing the sustainable development indicators. The sustainability indicators in the State budget are something that needs to develop over time, both in terms of volume and content. The answer letter from the Ministry of Finance at the Council of State emphasises that the long-term development of Norway’s income depends in particular on the growth capacity of the mainland economy. The efficient and sustainable development of all resources, including environmental and natural resources, will ensure high production and income over time. There is little doubt that good income development will facilitate sustainable development. The National Budget for 2015 referred to sustainability in several relevant chapters, because it is – and should be – an integral part of government policy in all areas. In the examination of the 2015 budget, the Stortinget government asked for further development of sustainable development in the future national budget, with a focus on green growth. This is an important part of the green transition we're now doing. The world is changing, and the political solutions must match the reality we see globally. As conservative environmental politicians, my ideological starting point is that we need to change to preserve. International negotiations are now under way on new UN sustainability targets to be adopted at the New York Summit in September 2015 and to apply to all countries of the world. In other words, they should be universal and of course also apply to Norway. I expect that the Storting will be involved in the follow-up to this work, and that it will be seen in the context of national climate and environmental policies, in the follow-up to the 2030 targets and in the current budgets. On that basis, the Right will not support the proposals made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e303	The proposers call for further development of the indicators for sustainable development, while expressing their wish for a comprehensive report on the UN's sustainability targets to show how the indicators should be made operational in Norwegian policy. Chapter on sustainable development in the national budget, as the Minister of Finance wrote in his reply to the Committee on 18 December 2014, has developed in terms of content and scope over time, from the first indicators of sustainable development in 2005 under the Government of Bondevik II. The 2014 National Budget focused mainly on a review of the 17 indicators, covering a very wide range of natural disasters and resources, the health status of the population and the state of protected buildings for public finances, and last but not least on developments in indicators of quality of life. Then there are some commitments that need to be laid as a foundation, and the Minister of Finance is quite right when she emphasises in her letter that good income development will continue to make it ‘easy to take care of sustainable development’, which is also agreed by a Joint Committee. The Committee also welcomes the fact that, in its reply to the Committee, the Minister for Finance ‘states that environmental considerations should be more closely integrated into policy-making in all areas’. The Minister of Finance wrote: ‘On this basis, in the 2015 national budget, we expanded the number of efficient use of resources in the private and public sectors. The importance of the management of natural resources and the environment was discussed in Section 5.5. Other themes mentioned earlier in the chapter on sustainability were also covered this year in other chapters of the National Budget.’ In addition, the following proposals were adopted: ‘The government is asked to further develop the topic of sustainable development in future national budgets with a focus on green growth’.» The Committee believes it is right to periodically assess whether the most relevant indicators have been taken into account. At the same time, however, the Committee notes that the presence of the indicators themselves has not necessarily given an increased focus on the sustainability of the budgetary process. The decisive factor is how they are taken into account in economic policy, and the extent to which policies and measures are designed and justified in order to reverse developments on indicators that might be in the wrong direction. The OECD has developed a set of indicators for, among others: measuring the environmental impact and use of natural resources shows a positive development over time. Norway comes well into such a comparison. The right-wing party government assumes that the work carried out in the OECD will be part of the follow-up to the decision of the Storting, which I had previously discussed. To the fall, following an extensive pre-process, the UN will adopt global resource targets. A plurality in this room, Right, the Progress Party and the Left, suggests that the government will properly involve the Storting in the follow-up to the UN's conservation targets without having to send a big message of its own. These parties believe that the government will be a driver of ambitious but feasible UN targets, and that Norway, through aid policy and international climate action, will actively contribute to the achievement of the goals of the developing countries as agreed by the United Nations. The government party indicates that the bearing force measure will be universal, and thus also applies to Norway. Furthermore, there is reason to believe that many of the targets adopted will already be met in many developed countries. Norway’s follow-up to the sustainability targets linked to climate and environment will therefore be seen in the context of the international climate and environmental policy, the follow-up to Norway’s 2030 targets and the current budgets provided by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e338	I think we all agree that, in the future, we will need good decision-making in a number of areas related to environmental and climate policy. I think everyone agrees on the importance of being able to follow the development and the state in a number of areas over time. I also believe that, in reality, all of us agree that work on sustainability must be integrated into budgetary policy and that this has been a positive way of doing so. Then it's a little strange that it's going to be so hard to get a majority in the Storting for the kind of proposal that's here today. There is no doubt that the sustainability indicators that you have had have provided an opportunity to follow developments over time and have provided a good basis for both assessments and decisions in a number of areas. And I think it's interesting when someone just chooses to take it out, and that in retrospect it's called an editorial change, when someone who's now interested is then referred to looking at each area to find state reports about the individual areas. That's what I think is creative, and I think that saying that one should evolve in form and content is something quite different than simply taking out the whole chapter. I honestly think that the Right Party and the Advance Party could actually admit that it was unwise, said that we regret it, we shouldn't have done that, and I also think that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party today could have contributed simply to making a decision to put it back into the national budget. But the Christian People's Party and the Left also have a tendency – in this case as in a number of other cases – to in a way turn a little back and forth, away from what they really think and over into some kind of procedural decision that can be accepted by the Right and the Advance Party. Therefore, it is a little sad that one is unable to get a majority in favour of the proposal to put the indicator set back into the national budget, as proposed by the Central Party, the Labour Party, the SV and the Green Party. It is also a pity that you cannot have a majority in favour of a big message about the UN's new sustainability targets, which can provide the Stortinget with the basis for a wide debate on precisely those issues. I understand that someone will then come back to the Stortinge «in a suitable way» before September with this with the UN's sustainability goal. We all know, of course, that getting back to Bigton can be everything from coming to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to presenting cards in the revised national budget, or in other ways, and it will in no way give the same opportunity for a wide-ranging debate on this as it would a big message. However, the Central Party will follow with interest how the government will now address the sustainability and sustainability issues in the various areas and what kind of development and renewal these indicators will receive, after they have been taken into the national budget of the year before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e351	On the left, we fully agree with Mr Arnstad's remark that it is important that we constantly measure the development and environmental development of society. That is what this matter is about: how is this to be made visible in the context of the State budget? It is also important that we constantly assess the impact of the measures and proposals we have on the environment. When sustainability indicators were placed differently in the state budget than before, the Left also disagreed with the government’s assessment. That was also why this issue was raised in the context of budgetary negotiations, and the four parties agree that the Stortinget asks the government to further develop the topic of sustainable development in future national budgets, with a focus on green growth. The job that the four parties now have to continue is, of course, to clarify how this is to be done towards next year's presentation of the state budget. I would also like to add that we, the four parties, have also in the past asked the Environment Directorate to present its assessment – especially in relation to the climate targets – of achieving the 2020 targets, and that this should be presented each year, as a basis for both the preparation of the budget and the work to be done in the budget. Because you disagree on how you have placed sustainability criteria and whether everyone is in it, some speakers may say that the budget itself is less environmentally friendly. It's not at all. Last year's budgetary tenacity means a strengthening of the environmental profile in the budget, both in terms of collective action, the change in the tax regime for cars – which makes environmentally friendly cars much more competitive – the strengthening of Enova and the eco-technology system. The protection of forests is continued, and it is a promise of knowledge by nature. So in a number of fields, this is a good environmental budget that the Left most places behind. What this is about is how we're going to enter the criteria, how we're going to measure how development and environmental development are in the years to come, and how this is going to be written into the budget. We, the four parties, have a dialogue on how to do that. The UN's sustainability targets are very important for addressing international developments on the main issues. Here there will be a decision in September, and from the left, we believe that once this decision has been taken in the United Nations, it is also the right time to consider how we are going to carry out further work on the UN's sustainability target towards the Storting. We expect the government to come back with proposals on how to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e364	I didn't think it was a point to repeat all the good arguments for the proposals that SV is behind with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Environmental Party in this case. But I also regret the fact that the cork government or the government's supporting party will join in and state that we are getting to know our numbers. During the weekend, I have been in charge of both new and old Indians and chieftains at SV's national meeting, and one of the people I got to talk to, who attended there, was formerly a staging representative and our former leader Berit Ås. One of her foremost teachings, in which she has taught us, is: Know your numbers! As big-time politicians, we need to follow a lot of things, and following speech over time in such an important area is very important to me and to SV. So I hope that the government and the supporting parties will take the clear signals that come here, and come back with a good deal of care – if it didn't come today. So we're talking here about how we can best contribute to the rocking of our Earth, and it's not small things up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e371	Robert F. Kennedy's speech to the University of Kansas in 1968 sums up quite well what this debate is about. Gross domestic product, Kennedy said, measures air pollution, cigarette smoke and forest destruction. It doesn't include the health of our children, the quality of their education or their joy in playing, poetry's beauty or the strength of our marriages. In other words, it measures everything, except what makes life worth living. It was Bondevik II that presented the first sustainable development objectives in the national budget in 2005. There was a thorough professional assessment of the indicators selected. So the objectives were everything from air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions to soil protection, generation accounts, spawning stock for major fish stocks, nature indexes and several other indicators that together add up to say something about how policy affects our life base. The Bondevik II Government introduced this into the State budget precisely because sustainability considerations would become: ‘integrated in the ordinary political activities and in the budgetary process how many of the main priorities take place’. I am therefore particularly disappointed – like many others today – at the Christian People's Party and the Left in this matter, which in its time was introduced the indicators, but which today will not help to form a majority to keep them. After ten years, Norwegian policies still place far too little emphasis on sustainability. Our greenhouse gas emissions have increased since 1990. Soil and protected nature are being built down, and we are far behind in stopping the loss of biodiversity. The Right Party and the Progressive Party today give the impression in this debate that they believe sustainable development is important. When you understand that something really is important, it's common to try to make it visible and control it. We in the Green Party therefore almost did not believe our own eyes when we saw in the autumn that the government had removed the entire chapter on sustainable development from the national budget. The Minister of Finance has presented it as an editorial change — it has been mentioned — but it is with respect to reporting with little credibility. Without an overall overview and status, the attention and decision-making base of the EEAS are becoming weaker – not to mention the possibility of people else and civil society following key developments in society and economic policy. Knowledge of the state of the natural environment and of the impact of interventions in nature are also a right of citizens under the Constitution § 112. It is therefore extra striking that the government chose to remove the sustainability indicators last year, the year of the Constitutional Jubilee, the year when the environmental paragraph was tightened up and raised into a separate paragraph of our constitution. So what do we want with our society? How do we measure political success? The Communication of Ownership, which was just discussed in this Chamber, clearly states that state-owned companies over a certain size should report according to the Global Reporting Initiative standard, with details of social responsibility, sustainability and the environment. But obviously for the state there are completely different rules. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that it is consistent with the decision made before Christmas to further develop the talk of sustainable development in the national budget, that is, with emphasis on green growth. We in the Greens believe that this is a poor decision for two reasons. Firstly, there is such a woolly wording that there is no guarantee that we will have an overall set of indicators in the national budget of the harvest. Secondly, it is a mistake to believe that sustainable development is about green growth. Good income development and green growth, as the representative of the Progress Party spoke about in the future, are not the same as sustainable development. For us in the Green Party, sustainability is about taking care of the basis of life that we share with other species and future generations. It's about health and quality of life. It is simply about things that cannot be measured in money but that have vital value over time. So what we are proposing today, which has been referred to, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government, is to ask them to take up the 17 sustainable development indicators in the national budget – but also to ensure that they are further developed instead of removing them if they are not satisfied, and to establish better reporting procedures that make the indicators even more relevant to the political process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e401	In 1987, the Brundtland Commission defined sustainable development as "a development that meets today's needs without destroying the opportunities for future generations to meet their needs". The requirement has also been later described as ‘each generation must leave behind an overall wealth, including environmental and natural capital, which is so large that future generations can avoid a decline in the standard of living’. There is therefore a clear link between sustainable development and economic growth, but growth must take place in such a way as to maintain natural capital. This is often referred to as green growth and was a theme for our reference to sustainable development in the 2015 national budget. This was a change in relation to previous versions of the national budget, where the coverage of sustainable development was structured around the coverage of 17 indicators. In the past, there was some overlap between the chapter on sustainable development and the rest of the national budget. There was therefore a need to clean up. When we turned the topic of sustainability into the national budget of the year more towards efficient resource use, it was in line with developments internationally, where attention has shifted from far-reaching sustainable development to concrete measures to achieve green growth. But we are of course open to the fact that the reference to sustainable development has not found its final form in the budget of the year. The government has asked the government to further develop the sustainable development dimension of the future national budget, with a focus on green growth. Of course, we will follow up on this in the work on the 2016 national budget. With such an angle on the review, we can describe what it looks like today, as the indicators aim to do. At the same time, we can focus on what's going on in order to move on. If we are to achieve high sustainability and climate targets, we need to use our resources effectively. This is a point that the government is concerned about in all areas. We would like, among other things: follow this up on the basis of the recommendations of the Productivity Commission and the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e413	As the Council of State said, the request decision of 2 December 2014 asks the government to further develop the reference to sustainable development in the national budget with a focus on green growth. My question is: can the Council of State say anything about how the government will follow up this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e418	As I said in my post, the government has noticed what the Stortinget has asked for, and we will of course follow it up in the work on the 2016 national budget. Having said that, we're a bit away from completing the budget for next year, so I think we'll get back to it when the government puts forward the national budget for 2016 for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e423	After all, the 17 indicators from 2014 are not an eternal standard for how to work with sustainable development, and we in the Greens believe that there are a number of indicators that could be included, such as: Organic footprint and consumption and production of meat. At the same time, perhaps the greatest weakness is that the indicators are too little used for budgetary work. Instead of removing the indicators, the government could go through and improve them, and it should give them a more central place in the budgetary procedure. Also internationally, this is given great attention because of the new UN sustainability targets that are now being developed. The issue is now in connection with the decision before Christmas – to further develop the topic of sustainable development with a focus on green growth – whether the Council of State can elaborate more on what we can expect, and whether it can confirm that it will re-establish an overall set of indicators for sustainable development in the national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e428	As I said in the previous reply, the government will follow up the request made by Stortinget relating to the mention of these issues in the 2016 national budget. But as the representative knows perfectly well, the budget comes when it comes, and then she and the rest of the Storting get plenty of opportunity to read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e433	The representative will have another line. Une Aina Bastholm – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e436	Thank you for that! We in the Green Party must use the opportunity when we are given two lines in a row. The ownership notice clearly states that state-owned companies over a certain size are expected to report on the basis of the standard Global Reporting Initiative, which has detailed requirements for reporting on social responsibility, sustainability and the environment, which I had in mind in my contribution. The government requires this responsibility to be ‘tethered in the company’s boards’, in other words, at the top. Why does the government require others to report systematically on sustainability when the government itself drops the sustainable development indicators?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e443	Issues related to the ownership message must almost be addressed to the Minister of Industry. But I do not agree with the claim in the question. So it's the way the government is concerned about describing reality as it is, while at the same time having to pay more attention to what we're going to do to get on with it. What ultimately determines future developments is what kind of instruments we use. That will be decided, and that is why the concrete proposals presented in the State budget are, after all, the most important, and I suppose the representative agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e448	I think it is bold to start by quoting Gro Harlem Brundtland's groundbreaking work for sustainable development in a matter that is just about the government removing how we talk about sustainable development in the state budget. There has been a good tool that has been there for many years under the red-green government. We're not saying it's perfect, we're saying that it's like it could be further developed, but as it has been, it's been an important tool for politicians and people. What I don't think we've been given a good reason for, either in the speeches of the Minister of Finance or in the speeches of the Government Parties, is what really was the reason why the indicators were completely removed. That is what I want the Minister of Finance to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e455	I don't think it's the least daring to start by quoting the Brundtland Commission, simply because I tried through my post to describe the historical developments in the mention of these issues in the annual budgetary documents. I assume that the representative agrees that because we have a development, it must also be seen through the way in which some of these issues are presented, through the budgetary documents and by other means. One thing is to have a good tool to describe reality. A completely different thing is what tools we use to solve the challenges. Like Mr Elvesuen, I believe that the budget adopted by the Stortinget this autumn is a good budget with a strong and clear environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e463	No one has claimed that a good description solves anything, but a good description gives us an important tool to solve problems – it says something about what direction society is going in. I don't think that now we got a good reason why the whole chapter was removed. On the contrary, I noticed that the Minister of Finance did not actually answer the question: What was the reason why the entire chapter had been removed from the State budget? I consider this to be in the light of the contribution made by the Minister of Finance, and the contributions that have been made here, as if this were really a loss. Then I think the finance minister can say: this was something we shouldn't have done – when we see the reactions that have come, we shouldn't have done this, and we're going to do it another way in next year's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e468	As I said in my post, there was a need to do cleanups in the way these questions were presented in the budget. At the same time – as I also said – we are of course quite open to continuously developing this. That is why we intend to follow up the request decision of the Stortinget, which we intend to follow up on what is the intention of the Stortinget, that we should further develop the reference to sustainable development in the future budgets with a focus on green growth. It is the intention of the government to meet the expectations of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e473	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e478	Sometimes an almost unstoppable wonder about the debates in Stortinget. Firstly, I believe that it is obvious that sustainability indicators were removed. What we now hear from the Minister of Finance is an explanation of the realities. There were massive reactions, a desire to have that discussion, and that is also the basis for the consensus between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left – that is, a desire for that kind of discussion. Then I think it is amazing to hear the debate here today, where a number of proposals have been put forward, just to get a better analytical basis, just to get – as the Minister of Finance said – a better description of the reality of developments in areas that are absolutely essential, within the concept of sustainability, within the environment, climate, etc. The reality is that the majority of the population, the government parties and the Left, are opposed to the fact that the Storting should have the opportunity that the Storing actually wants to discuss these important questions. I think that's a little strange, perhaps especially as long as the Left's leader, after this weekend's meetings in the Left, goes out and tries to create a green alibi by shooting at the Workers' Party. So they come to the real policy at the main hall, and then they discharge their responsibility. I think that's very strange, but I realize that as long as the Left has been involved in putting in the government they've been involved in, they need to get a green alibi. But then it should be done in a fair manner, based on what they themselves are doing to facilitate that the Storting actually gets an insight into. It is important that we measure progress, said the representative Ola Elvestuen. I totally agree. That one then votes against the proposals presented in this matter is surprising. The impact of the measures taken is said by the representative of Elvesuen to be important. Yes, then it is surprising that a vote against any issues and analyses that will help measure the effects of debates in Stortinget. That one should wait and wait and wait for this kind of clarification, I think it's most remarkable, but I realize that one is bound into a system where the government parties control, and where one really does not want to discuss exactly the environment, sustainability and climate, where one measures development carefully, and where one also sees the effect of what an actual one is doing. I see that the will to get those analyses is actually not present in this room. I'm sorry about that. So to the environmental profile of the state budget we now have. Yeah, we don't have any measurement criteria for that. It could have been good to get. So I expect that when the Stortinget gets submitted to climate budgets, the left is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e493	It is almost difficult to know where to start, but the indignantness of Aasland's representative is strong, and it may be significant that the indignant nature of the environmental issue of the Workers' Party is just about what we are discussing today – the establishment of a reporting in the Stortinget and not concrete action in the environmental field. What is real after the last major elections is that there is a completely different pace of implementation and proposals for both climate action and wider environmental action. That's the main focus of the Left. And I believe that no one who followed the budgetary process last fall avoided noticing the change and strengthening of environmental policy that occurred from the budget to the adoption of it. I also think it is significant that what is generally the only criticism about the budget – including the Labour Party – is about either the process or what it looks like, but not about the content and decision-making at the end, or what we are actually doing with this year's budget. And – as I just said – precisely the sustainability indicators have also been taken up, it was taken up by the four parties, and we have a consensus on how to continue working on how to present this. If the concern is the time, the time will be exactly the same with the proposals available here, namely when the budget is presented in the autumn. So from the left, we are well pleased with the environmental impact, which is, after all, the most important thing in the budget. We're also happy with the consensus on how we're going to work on how to measure the results of what we're doing in the future. The result of this will again be presented in the context of the budget for the following year, and then the assessment of the other batches must be whether they agree or disagree with what is then done when it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e502	I guess I wasn't very indignant, really. I was just surprised at the outcome in Stortingen of important questions, for example. in the case of measurement, as regards the impact of decisions, and not least as regards the possibility and reason for the Storting to discuss important future issues from established standards from the government. We think that is quite essential, because it puts the debate into a more concrete and more realistic context, which should be important for the Storting. I want to brag by the Left for the movement that they got the government to make, from putting forward their original budget – which was a very bad climate and environmental budget – to improve the work of the Left and Christian People's Party. I can give credit for that now, and we also gave credit for that in the budget debate, but it was therefore a very bad climate and environmental budget that was put forward, which improved with the help of the Left and Christian People's Party. All credit for it, but the real focus of Norwegian climate policy and Norwegian environmental policy is not from Left to Right/Fremskritspartet in this room. It's in a different direction, from maybe the Left to the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV. It is a reality, and I also think that the representative Ola Elvestuen will notice as we are going to put some of the big issues into practice. Then we'll see how far the Left is willing to go in concrete actions and concrete decisions in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e509	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e512	At 1 minute: after eight years of stagnating, it was important for the Left to get a new majority into the Grand Duchy, so that a movement in environmental policy could begin again. The two years we now have behind us have shown that there is a new force, especially in climate policy, and it exists on the civil side. And it must be frustrating for parties on the red-green side that there is just a bourgeois majority who have got more offensive budgets, and that for individual parties there are also opportunities to get through decisions in addition, which we have some examples of in the Storting. So I'm sure we'll take that job further. We have a cooperation agreement, such as: states that we should strengthen the climate agreement and the collective effort. We have budgets on which to build in the years to come, and we are going to take individual decisions that... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e519	The number was 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e522	The representative of Aasland is opening up a whole new debate here. I had not really intended to draw on that debate, but when the representative of Aasland chooses to present reality – both around the budget that the government has presented, and around the consensus we have between the government and the cooperation parties – in such a way that he does, that means that I also had to take the floor. For there is no doubt about who is leading the green shift, and who is following. It is the government parties and the cooperation parties that lead, and the Workers' Party is coming after. The representative of Elvesuen was concerned that the Workers' Party had eight years to demonstrate its offensive environmental policy. They provided two climate messages, and both climate messages were slaughtered by an overall environmental movement and by the opposition. The representative of Aasland and the Workers' Party have on several occasions used the opportunity to criticise the environmental profile of the Progress Party. They can answer for themselves, but I noticed – as one of those who agreed to negotiate the last climate agreement – that the Progress Party was willing to go beyond the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the UK when it came to finding constructive and good climate policy measures that would actually result in emission reductions. The time for symbolic policies and empty, big words was over – now is the time for concrete actions that have real impact. Therefore, it is important that climate and environmental policies are not reserved for a single area, but that they are integrated into all areas of policy – something in which the government has been clear. If the representative of Aasland doesn't like the editing of the state budget, then I think that if there's any government must have the opportunity to have an impact, that must be how they write their own state budget. But I am absolutely sure and feel confident that the government will follow up the request decision of the Stortinget in a good way, which not only the government parties and the cooperation parties will be satisfied with, but also the representative of Aasland can be satisfied with. Because we can agree that the most important thing is results, the most important thing is that emissions go down, and the most important thing is that the things we do are actually effective. How we report and set up tables is less important in this context. The most important thing is what we are doing, and so it is the government and the cooperation parties that are in charge, and the Labour Party that comes after.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e533	As this seems to evolve into a debate on the understanding of reality, I think it is necessary to make a few brief comments. The representative of Elvesuen says that the ambitions are on the civil side. Let me remind you that his party leader, the representative of Skei Grande, rushed over the draft budget last autumn when it came to the climate side of the budget of the bourgeois, and the improvement, which was affordable, was largely about to reverse the worst results of the Right and the Progress Party had proposed in the budget. I also understand that the Left and Christian People's Party is sore at the fact that we allow ourselves to suggest that it is remarkable that they express so many ambitions in the different settings of the Storting, but do not dare to participate in the proposals, which should be a natural extension of some of the ambitions expressed. The fact that the Left can't even agree that the Storting can ask for a big message about the UN's sustainability targets is funny. It must be a respectable person to be allowed to say also from this pulpit, and it must also be part of the sense of reality on which it is based. We have a lot of interesting things ahead of us in terms of the environment, and in terms of climate policy, and it's going to be very interesting to be able to meet the representative of Astrup with the words he came with from the pulpit here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e545	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e548	Some of the challenge with the debate we now have is that only claims are made. There are no real effects that are presented and discussed; there is no reality that is presented and that can be discussed. But that is exactly what we are asking for through this matter. It is precisely within the sustainability indicators that we get a common sense of reality, that we get a real measure of the effect, and not least that we can have procedures that ensure that the indicators become as relevant to the ordinary political activities and the budgetary process, how many of the important priorities are taking place. What one wants, is to approach these questions in a real way, an effective way, and that we can get a common basis to discuss from. But that's not what the majority wants. I think that's a little strange, not least with background in the last statements that were made, among other things. by the representative of Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e553	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e567	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. The President will also propose that six lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Une Aina Bastholm for Rasmus Hansson, who is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e576	So this case concerns a proposal from the Central Party to change the device of the Energy Labelling System for Construction in order to make it easier for district heating-related buildings to achieve energy character A. There has necessarily been a fairly technical and detailed discussion in the committee, and the same may be true of this debate, so I think it is important to remember the purpose of energy labelling of barley. The scheme thus entered into force in 2010 in the light of the EU's Building Energy Directive, and since then energy certification has been mandatory for both existing and new buildings sold or rented out in Norway. The purpose of the scheme is to ensure information to the market on the energy use and potential for improvement of buildings, to create a greater interest in energy efficiency measures, and to provide a more accurate valuation when selling or renting out dwellings and buildings. Build stands for 40 pst. energy use in Norway. So it's a huge potential for energy efficiency improvement and energy saving in a very important sector we're talking about here. There is a lot of work in the energy labelling scheme for buildings that can get better. It has also emerged during the examination of this proposal, and that is something that all parties seem to agree on. The representative proposal originally concerned the possibility of district heating-related constructions specifically to achieve a high energy character. The energy character is calculated today on the basis of so-called energy supplied, i.e. the amount of energy actually crossing the building wall or the landline. In the case of district heating-related buildings, this could make them worse off when calculating the energy character, and there is one of several challenges with the energy labelling scheme today. At the same time, the obligation to link, which is a political instrument, makes it more unreasonable for builders and the district heating industry in cases where this obligation is in the way of achieving the best energy character. However, it is important to clarify that already today there are many buildings that are connected to district heating, which have energy character A – this despite the fact that it must be very difficult to achieve character A, because it imposes high requirements on the building body, regardless of the energy carrier. For the Greens, it has been a goal for the Stortinge to express its opinion on the principle of the scheme and on what should be considered, without going into detail on the technical devices. In any case, here we also have the Labour Party and the Left with us on this matter. The aim must be that the building body is optimal and can make good use of the energy and that it is the most appropriate heating and cooling used for each building. For this reason, a majority of the Committee believes that a review of the nature of each building should be carried out. In any case, the Energy Labelling Scheme will now be reviewed due to the revision of the EU Building Energy Directive and this update should take place without undue delay. Through this treatment, the government has received several clear signals from Stortinget to take part in the work, and I would therefore like to thank the Centre Party for taking the initiative in the matter. A minority consisting of the Working Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Greens believe that the Energy Labelling Scheme should be amended so that buildings connected to district heating networks or with local bioenergy solutions, which may also be disproportionately poor with the current system, achieve the same character as an identical building with heat pump. We believe that this will help to correct today's bias in the system. Finally, some district heating companies still use fossil fuel oil and gas. A majority of the Committee is in favour of asking the government to provide several instruments to make district heating fossil-free and efficient, in order to meet the objectives of the climate agreement. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, seems to be putting down the foot of this proposal. With this, I would recommend the majority proposal on instruments to phase fossil oil and fossil gas into district heating and make district heating the most resource efficient. I also deal with the two minority proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e604	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e607	The energy labelling scheme has worked for five years and is now well known in Norway. The right considers that the energy labelling system must give the most correct signals about the energy needs and consumption of the building. It has to be easy to see the impact of anincrease. Today's system means that the energy character is based on the calculation of energy supplied according to a technology neutral and objective method which does not confer competitive advantage on individual technologies. The energy label based on the energy supplied gives a good indication of the actual energy needs of the building and thus the energy costs that owners and users of the building can expect. There must be a clear link between a good energy character in the energy labelling scheme and the quantity of energy purchased to operate a building. Based on the energy supplied, it is equally simple – or equally difficult – to achieve the best energy character regardless of whether district heating, electric boiler, bio boiler or oil boiler is used. Today, over 150 district heating buildings have the character A. At the same time, there may be grounds to consider whether the energy labelling scheme can be improved, as the Council of State has indicated that he is continuing to work. In the design of new technical regulations, it is proposed that the net energy needs should be taken into account, as they are today. The purpose of this is to ensure a well insulated building body. However, the importance of energy delivered is addressed by a number of additional technical requirements for installations, which aim to ensure energy-efficient energy supply and energy-efficient energy management. The Energy Marking Scheme is important in the construction of new buildings, but it is equally important that the scheme works well for existing building masses. In this case, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party promote a common proposal, asking the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for measures to phase fossil oil into district heating and make district heating as resource efficient as possible. I am referring to this proposal. Remote heating has a large potential in our largest cities, but it is important to ensure that district heating is as environmentally friendly as possible. Biogas can be a current form of peak load in some places. When the referenced proposal does not include gas, it is because we believe that a reduction in gas infrastructure makes it more difficult to develop a biogas strategy and trigger the potential for biogas found in Norway. The government has set up a subsidy scheme for biogas pilot plants, and we see that several municipalities, not least the municipality of Oslo, use biogas as fuel. The fact that biogas can also be used as a peak in district heating can help to further develop a market for biogas, and it is therefore right, we believe, not to take decisions now that will in practice mean a reduction and a smaller potential for biogas in the district heating sector. Biogas also has a very low local pollution footprint compared to the combustion of other resources and will therefore perhaps be particularly suitable in densely populated areas, like the city we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e630	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e633	A lot has been said, but the municipalities have long had the opportunity to secure a customer base for district heating builders. Remote heating has been desirable for, among others. to use waste energy from incineration. Since 2009, municipalities have been able to exempt from the obligation to connect to district heating plants where local heating and cooling stations are more energy efficient. It is also worth noting that the Energy Labelling Scheme for Construction came into force in 2010, in the light of the EU’s Building Energy Directive. Since then, energy certification has been mandatory for both existing and new buildings to be sold or rented out. The energy labelling system must provide the most appropriate signals on the energy needs and consumption of the building. The Eco-label scheme makes it easy to see the effect of efficiency measures, and it is therefore not surprising that more and more people have a desire or a goal of more energy efficiency and thus achieve A-labelled construction. But all such labelling schemes have an improvement potential. Today we continue to relate to TEK 10, but we also know that a new design of the construction engineering regulations, TEK 15, is ongoing in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. It should be understandable that the government wants to see things in their entirety and not in part and in part, as this representative proposal puts it. As of 13 September 2013 – after eight years with the previous government – we had 150 energy certificates with district heating and energy character A. Of these, there were about 60 energy certificates where the district heating covered 85-100 pst. of the heating and where no heat pump was installed. It is also the case that a broad majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens – acknowledges that an update of the Energy Labelling System will in any case have to be made in the context of the introduction of the revised Building Energy Directive and then with the EEA relevance of the Directive. There is a large, broad majority in agreement. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are promoting its proposal, where we are removing fossil gas. We all know that gas – biogas and also natural gas – can be an important source of energy in densely built strips, and I think it is really strange that the Workers' Party in the case goes so far as to want to remove everything called gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e646	The proposal proposes to amend the energy labelling scheme so that buildings connected with district heating networks can also achieve energy character A. Today there are no practical obstacles to a building with district heating being given the energy label A. You have to build a building that is sufficiently energy efficient, so that the user of the building has to buy little energy to heat up and drive the building. Today there shall be more than 150 district heating constructions with the character A. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the energy labelling scheme provides owners and potential buyers with the most accurate picture of the building's energy use and costs. It is important to have an objective system for users to have confidence in the scheme. The Committee said so in the spring of 2009, when the scheme was adopted: ‘The Committee considers it important that the energy labelling be carried out in a simple and unbureaucratic manner and that it is important to choose an energy label that communicates the energy status of buildings easily.’ A functioning system that people are concerned about and trust in will lead to developers building as efficiently as possible. If it would be easier to get the grade A using district heating, we are afraid this will cause builders to lose the incentive to build energy efficiently. Some of the core of the problem is whether to change the calculation point from delivered energy to net energy. Both delivered energy and net energy is the calculation point defined by NS 3031. We believe that the calculation point delivered energy gives the best indication of how much energy the building needs to be supplied under normalised climate and operating conditions. The self-production of energy in the form of heat or electricity, if built, helps to reduce the need for energy input, in line with passive measures, such as: through increased insulation thickness in the walls. It is natural to assume that consumers are concerned with having the lowest possible energy costs, and an estimate of the need for energy supplied gives a good indication of this. Of course, today's energy labeling system is not perfect. I am pleased that the Council of State, in a letter to the Committee, has said that he is working on changes to the energy labelling system. At the same time, it is important that the basic principle expressed by the Committee in 2009 be maintained, that ‘energy labelling is carried out in a simple and unbureaucratic manner, and that it is important to choose an energy label that easily communicates the energy status of buildings’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e668	As some have noted, energy efficiency improvement is an important tool to limit greenhouse gas emissions, and we have a high potential in the construction sector. Today's energy labelling system consists of two characters, several of which have been included: an energy character and a heating character. In general, the energy character – on a scale from A to G – is used on the market and is sought by the developers. The energy character is derived from so-called energy supplied, i.e. the amount of energy actually crossing a building wall or a landline. So it's a challenge for the district heating industry that that interface is problematic, because today, district heating is largely based on the use of low-value resources, often on a large scale, such as: waste-residue heat and several district heating companies also have large heat pump facilities. Norway's largest collector plant, e.g., has now been put into use in the district heating on the Lillestrom of Akershus Energy Heating. Their problem is that when technologies are in a district heating system – and not on individual buildings – all heat is counted into the buildings that supply energy, and thus the energy character gets worse. Or another way of saying, if a given building has its own heat pump, the simple few grade A, while in a district heating system based on heat pumps or other waste heat, the same construction could have the grade C. One would then be able to conclude quickly with – and that is what gets stuck in the market – that the environmental performance of construction with the character C is significantly worse, but that is not the case. That is the background to the proposal and debate that the Central Party has raised, and also to the challenge that we believe needs to be resolved in some way. Thus, some people feel obliged to install double infrastructure to avoid using district heating, or the builders do a lot to avoid connecting to district heating systems in order to achieve the character A, and this is a very unfortunate and unintentional result of a positive system. Because in areas where there is a district heating infrastructure, district heating is a good and long-term solution. With district heating, it is possible to use energy that would otherwise be unused — waste heat from waste and industry, wood chips or heat from the environment and seawater — and district heating will be absolutely central also to the phase-out of oil burners. Against this background, the Centre Party has considered that the Energy Labelling Scheme should be amended to a more technology-neutral interface, where net energy needs have been built that form the basis for the Energy Label. That's the standard that today's TEK, that's building regulations, that's well implemented. In that case, the focus is only on the basic energy needs and the nature of the building and one avoids unlucky discussions as to whether the heat pump should be located within or outside the limit of the building. I want to mention an example that several of us met on the district heating days last year, where a consultant took up – at least with me – that he was about to put so many measures on the building body that the building was about to become completely unfunctional. Nevertheless, it was not possible to obtain the A-mark, because the construction is based on district heating from Akershus Energy Heating and not on own heat pumps or energy plants. The central party believes that a change to the energy labelling scheme would have been possible in a simple and unbureaucratic way, and we also believe that the story of what the Committee on Energy and the Environment said in 2009 is a little more diversified than the individual representatives have been involved in, for the Committee also said: ‘The Committee understands this in order to provide the heating label with information on the extent to which it will be possible to meet the heat demand in buildings with energy sources other than electricity, oil and gas.’;» One was not only occupied by the building body and built; one was also occupied by the energy source that was being fed. Unfortunately, it weakens the relevance of the labelling scheme when internal energy solutions are premiered over collective energy supply. That is why I believe that the debate we have today is absolutely necessary. We are not quite getting ashore in today's debate, but I feel that it is a will to change, sail if one does not go for the proposals the Senter party has wanted. I think the most important of all is that one recognizes the problem and is willing to look at it in the further work. With that I will be allowed to raise proposal No. 4, on behalf of the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e695	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e698	First I want to say that I think it is very positive that Marit Arnstad and the Central Party have presented this proposal. Like the representative Arnstad, I think we have very good use of this discussion, and I think we can take advantage of this discussion at this point too, because there are several processes going on at the same time. This is, to the most extent, a relevant issue. It is now the case that the obligation to connect to district heating plants was adopted in 1986 and the possibility of allowing exemptions for buildings with a better environmental solution in 2009. And then in 2010 came the energy label scheme. It is true, as many have said, that the energy labelling system has two parts. One is the energy character, which we are discussing very much here, while the other is the heat source character, which is measured by color. There are houses with district heating the best name, which is light green or dark green. The problem, however, is that the energy nature of the market is the main concern. The purpose of the energy labelling scheme was to ensure market information. It is important then to assess whether the impact of the labelling system as it now exists gives the desired results, namely to contribute to moreenhanced measures. It shall also contribute to the use of renewable energy. However, at least Left renewable energy can of course also be district heating, whether it is from the incineration of waste or there are other renewable energy sources. There is no doubt that the energy labelling scheme has an improvement potential. Among other things, in the relationship between energy delivered and net energy delivered already today, as has been pointed out earlier, there is a different interpretation of TEK 10 and what is the energy label scheme. Obviously, when you're working on TEK 15, it's necessary to get a connection to this, so that the same system applies to the whole field. For TEK 15, which is also important for district heating development, the discussion is also how to set the limit for waterborne heat requirements. So there are several things within TEK 10 that will be directly affected by the development and possibility of district heating, as well as the question that we're taking in here. It is the overall environmental impact that must be the purpose of the legislation we are creating. In that case, it is not in itself right for internal energy solutions to be presented in front of collective energy supply. Here it's the total effect that must be the most important. Then to the suggestions. The left is in favour of the proposal of a majority in the Committee, namely to phase out the use of fossil energy, both fossil gas and fossil oil, in district heating plants, and to ask the government to come back with how this should be done. Here technology has come so far that there is no reason to hold back the possibility of fossil gas. This can be handled nicely, and the Storting should go all the way, so that we are now making the principle decision on the decommissioning of fossil energy in the district heating plants to make them even more environmentally friendly, and not now going a detour in relation to fossil gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e721	Let me first begin by commending the representative, Mr Bastholm, who, on behalf of the case-rapporteur, explained in an excellent way that this is a technically very demanding matter to deal with, and it is also a matter of how many considerations must be weighed up against each other. I also want to say that I am happy that more and more builders, but also owners of existing constructions, are concerned with energy efficiency and the possibility to get the A-mark on their constructions, just as I am also pleased that the Storting is engaged in this important matter. Energy from the many high-value forms available in Norway is too valuable to be used in the best possible way. Then I want to say that it might seem as if there's a little misunderstanding going out and going. It is not that connection to district heating itself is excluded from having the A-marking under the energy labelling scheme. It's not, it's 150 buildings in Norway that both have district heating connections and are energy label A. However, it is true that the costs in sum, with both district heating connections and building a building body that satisfies the A-marking, are probably higher initially. The fact that we have based the energy label scheme on the energy supply gives a good indication of the energy supply actually built, and thus also a good indication of what current costs for the energy builder or the building contractor might expect. So that's the way I think it is. The representative Arnstad was concerned that district heating has the feature that it can play on very many forms of energy. Delivering waterborne heat is based on many forms of energy that are less easily distributed without district heating. District heating, in many of the areas where we have the greatest challenges with the energy system both now and in the future, plays an important role. Remote heating also uses resources that do not have very high alternative value, not least waste, which accounts for more than 40 pst. of energy added to our district heating systems. You can't take advantage of waste in a lot of other ways. This means that the matter is technically very demanding, and that there are many considerations that need to be taken into account. I hear many people point out that there must be a connection with TEK15. I think it is important to make a good and new assessment of how we can further develop the energy labelling system when TEK15 is finished, but I would like to remind you that they address partly different things. TEK15 addresses only new buildings. Then it is not unnatural to take account of net energy needs and thus, above all, to make demands on the building body. The energy labelling scheme also applies to existing buildings, which is not the case for TEK15. As far as the use of natural gas in the district heating system is concerned, I think the representative of Astrup explained in an excellent way why it is unwise to go to work hard to phase out gas at this stage. Gas accounts for approx. 5 pst. of the energy supplied to the district heating plants in Norway, and when the government, together with the new majority on the Stortinget, has made a heavy effort to facilitate the increased production of biogas, we have come a little on the way. However, this biogas also needs to find its users, and therefore maintaining gas consumption in the district heating plants is an important intermediate solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e734	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e737	It was in the post of the representative of the Progress Party that there was an impression that there was a proposal today to phase out all gas from the district heating network or to ask the government to come back to Stortinget with such tools. It doesn't. What is contained in the proposal of the majority of the committee, which is therefore the committee's recommendation, is that the Storting ask the government to come back to the Storing with the means to phase out fossil gas and fossil oil. That being said, the Greens would probably have voted to phase out all gas from the district heating network. It is a matter of creating a market for biogas for transport, which was occupied by the representative from the Right, without first using the biogas in the district heating network. You can do that, for example. By giving clear political signals about where you want to go, some sort of mantra about technology neutrality may prevent today's government from doing so. What can also help is to allocate more resources to NVE's work on the energy labelling scheme. It will be absolutely necessary for the NVE to be able to do the same type of information work that Enova does, for example: today – quite successfully – to inform about the purpose and also the possibilities of their arrangements. Biogas is a limited resource, while in the district heating network we have the opportunity to use many more types of energy carriers, and that's some reason why I hope the Stortinget can at another time come back a little bit to how we use biogas, the possibilities for it, in Norway. I would just like to end by saying that the Greens will, of course, vote for the slightly less ambitious proposal to phase out only oil from the district heating network – as far as the climate agreement is concerned – and that the government will return to the Stortinget, preferably as soon as possible, with the means to do so. We also hope that the parties that have been with us on the majority proposal will vote for it, so that we get a majority for a very important proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e746	I took the floor to make a brief remark on the last speaker, because some municipalities will be concerned with reducing local pollution, and then having the opportunity to use biogas as a tipping load can give significantly lower local pollution levels than if you, for example, were. using bio-oil as a peak load, which we know leads to greater particulate emissions, and which will be a challenge especially in a city like Oslo, which is struggling with local pollution in winter. We are going to discuss later today a matter of instruments to reduce local air pollution in our largest cities and the means we are going to use to do so, and I think it would therefore be unfortunate if the municipalities did not have the opportunity to use biogas because the gas infrastructure has been built up as a result of the decision a majority wants to take today – not that majority, but a majority. There's more than one majority here, and that's something the government parties are happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e778	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Tina Bru for Odd Henriksen, who is the rapporteur for case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e787	I would like to start by thanking the Committee on behalf of the rapporteur, Odd Henriksen, for a good and constructive cooperation with this matter. There is broad consensus throughout the Committee that our power-intensive industry is an important and forward-looking industry. If this industry is to develop further in Norway, the industry needs good framework conditions — and energy is a priority that we have in Norway. Our industry is essentially built around hydropower and is therefore one of the world's most environmentally friendly industries. For Norway, it is important to insist that we use our power to produce the products the world needs, with one of the world's smallest carbon footprints. The world needs metal, and if we are to achieve our emissions targets together, Norwegian production is important. Our industry is not just environmentally friendly. It's also a driver of new technology. Industry is actively working to reduce its emissions. Furthermore, Norwegian industry is constantly seeking to produce its products as efficiently as possible. Our technology and our environmental requirements for industry have made it very efficient, environmentally friendly and competitive. Here we have the opportunity to export not only pure metals, but also technology. Our industry is, as I said, dependent on good framework conditions. Thus, for large enterprises with a high service life, electricity prices are not only important. It is equally important that the costs of network rental are as low as possible. Our power grid is changing a lot. Significant investments in the network are needed. This is primarily due to the fact that parts of the network need maintenance. In addition, new renewable energy production and new consumption are added. In the near future, the third electricity market package will be introduced and, in May 2014, the Reiten Committee presented its report ‘A better organised electricity network’. Furthermore, a concession has been granted to build up two new foreign tables. All these investments in the network will increase network costs. The costs of operating the network have to be paid by customers and the costs have to be allocated to the best of their ability through different network tariffs. The main principles of Norwegian legislation are that tariffs should be based on non-discriminatory and objective conditions and designed to give users of the network, as far as possible, signals of efficient use and development of the network. Tariffs shall be differentiated according to objective and verifiable criteria based on relevant network conditions. Tariffs shall also be set in such a way as to provide network operators with the necessary revenue to cover the costs within the allocated income framework and to cover the costs of the overarching network. With the above-mentioned justification, Statnett has launched its own tariff model for high-use large-scale consumers. Industry is subject to individual tariffs based on its contribution to system operation. In addition to the proximity to power generation, it is distinguished whether industry has a long service life, high and stable summer consumption, and whether the company has little variation in daily consumption. Classification into customer groups affects the cost allocation. In the central network consumption co-located with production is lower than consumption at clean outlets. Furthermore, regional network companies that have large users with a high usage time in their network are allowed to reduce tariffs based on network conditions according to the criteria of the Statnet tariff model. The vast majority of regional network companies continue to reduce tariffs based on network conditions to high-use large-scale consumers connected to their network. This model is used because the industry contributes to a level playing field and that we get effective online use. Industry is helping to stabilise the power system, leading to a reduction in system costs and a reduction in the need for future investments in the network. The Committee considers that the central network model of Statnet is well-founded. Some of our industry is not in the central network, but in the regional network. The Committee calls on regional network companies to continue the tariff on their network. If this is done based on network conditions, the price signals will be predictable. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that a uniform model for setting tariffs for high-use large-scale consumers can help to increase the predictability of the industry. At the same time, the majority considers that a regulatory ceiling for a fixed/fixed tariff model for large consumers in the regional network and the central network may run counter to network-based tariffs and risk the tariff currently applied by industry. Different prices must be individually justified and determined individually. A coherent tariff model would imply that large consumers contribute too little to the costs of the regional network. Instead, these costs would have to be borne by the other consumers in the region. The majority therefore do not support the proposals submitted in this case. Right-wing wants a forward-looking and competitive Norwegian industry, which can build on the fantastic starting point of our unique supply of hydropower and renewable energy. With a large surplus of power in the coming years, everything is at the ready for new industrial development in Norway in the future. Both today and in the future, there will be many green jobs in Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e815	In the case of the representative proposal of the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Per Rune Henriksen, Terje Aasland and Truls Wickholm for a better organised electricity network, the committee's plurality of the opinion is that the proposal, as identified in document 8:36, is taken into account. Responses from the Minister of Oil and Energy, including in connection with the warning of energy policy, so I am not saying much more about this. But I want to say something about the Internet and the Internet. In the coming years, major investments will be made in the entire power system in Norway. Only in the central network are the investment estimates for the present day range of between 50 and 70 billion. until 2020. The corresponding amount or more shall be invested in regional and distribution networks. The lag in net investment is great, something the red-green government did little or nothing about. Recently, two new international connections were also granted a concession. More unregulatable power shall be fed into the power grid, and there will also be additional challenges for network operation. Furthermore, it must invest between 10 and 15 billion. kr in automatic meter readers, AMS, which will provide greater flexibility on the consumer side. Work on changes in energy laws has also been started on the implementation of the EU's third energy market package, where an important issue in the implementation of the acts is the borderline between transmission and distribution networks. In the case of current and future tariff preferences, the individual network operator will be responsible for the development of tariff preferences in line with the current principle. The main principle of Norwegian legislation, which also implements the EEA legal requirements of the Electricity Market Directive and the Cross-border Power Trading Regulations, is that tariffs should be based on non-discriminatory and objective conditions and be designed in such a way as to signal to users of the network, as far as possible, an efficient use and development of the network. Tariff tabs may be differentiated according to objective and verifiable criteria based on relevant network conditions. Tariffs shall also be fixed in such a way as to provide the transmission system operators with the necessary revenue to cover the costs within the allocated income framework and to cover the costs incurred in respect of the transmission. The Committee points out in its opinion that, from 2015 onwards, Statnett’s pricing strategy for the period 2014-2018 has launched a separate tariff model for SFHB based on a networked basis. Industrial holdings are subject to individual tariffs based on their own contributions to system operation. The reason for this model is that industry contributed to a smooth consumption profile and efficient grid use. Industry has contributed to stabilising the power system, leading to a reduction in system costs and a reduction in the need for investments in networks in the future. In addition, large users with a high usage time could be involved in stabilising the network and reducing network operation challenges resulting from more input of unregulated power generation and increased power exchange with the rest of the world. According to Statnett’s view, this is particularly relevant in the summer months. The starting point is that all customers connected to the network shall contribute to covering the costs of the network. Classification into customer groups affects the cost distribution between customers. In any case, the network shall collect the income frame and the costs of the existing network through tariffs. If a customer group pays less of the network costs, another customer group has to pay more. A single committee indicates that for SFHB, the cost of power is an essential cost element. SFHB competes in the global market and needs far-sighted, non-discriminatory network tariffs. The criteria for differentiation shall ensure non-discrimination, seniority and objective criteria. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are of the opinion that a uniform model for setting tariffs for SFHBs can help to make it more conservative for the industry. At the same time, these members of the opinion that a regulatory ceiling for fixed/fixed tariff model for SFHB in the regional and central networks may be contrary to network-based tariff preferences. A Joint Committee records that Statnet also provides tariff reductions based on network relations with regional network companies linked to SFHB, and calls on regional network companies to take this into account in their tariffs for SFHB. The Committee welcomes this. The proposals in Documents 8:24 S are therefore not supported, and the Committee recommends that the proposals be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e841	First a few words about the expert committee and our desire for a debate on the organization of the mains power grid. The working party wants the network to be organised to ensure that we have the necessary upgrading and expansion and safe operation. I think it's a little strange when the representative Grimstad claims that the red-green government didn't do anything – and now we see the results flowing on, with the AMS, new foreign tables, etc. If it's the case that the representative Grimstad thinks this is something you fix in a couple of months, I think he should be real-time. All of these things were prepared under the red-green government. We provided an online message. It was also the red-green government that put down the expert committee that has now come up with its proposals, that we have not taken a stand on now, but that will change the organisation of network operations in the future. We want the Stortinget to be able to take a broad and comprehensive debate on the issues and solutions that the Riten – through the expert committee – points to, thus giving the Council of State both a signal and a mandate to propose the necessary changes that need to be made. We do not get that, but we have expectations that we will have such a debate in the near future when we receive legislative proposals for consideration. We think that the energy message itself will take longer, but we expect that there will be legislative proposals on this matter in good time before an energy message. So we're going to have net numbers. I think that both the representative Bru and the representative Grimstad have argued very strongly and well that we should adopt the proposals that the Labour Party – together with several other parties – has promoted here. There is a broad consensus that large consumers with a high useful life benefit from the network. There is a broad consensus that Statnet’s model is a good model, not only for the central network, but also for the enterprises located in the regional network. And there is a broad consensus that on the basis of current principles, online operators should set tariffs. But it is precisely these current principles that we want to do something about, namely to pass on to the regional website the principles on which Statnett builds its network tariff. The purpose of the proposals is to provide an important industry with predictable conditions. We have a long list of why this industry is useful, why we need it in Norway. The working party wants to ensure that these companies have equivalent relationships, regardless of whether they are located in central networks or regional networks for different — and to some extent at random — reasons. As I said, I believe that, both through the suspension and through the insertions here today, the government parties have actually expressed full support for the proposals. But when you can't join in and adopt these proposals, you have to think of something clever to say, and then there comes a fairytale sentence in the setting – which has also been repeated in the posts here today: ‘At the same time, these members are of the opinion that a regulatory ceiling for the fixed/fixed tariff model for SFHB in the regional and central networks may run counter to network-based tariffs.’;» I do not understand where this roof comes into the picture. We haven't suggested a roof on any tariffs. We have proposed a uniform model for the calculation of these tariffs, to which the individual network operator must relate. We have also proposed – as another proposal – that the enterprises concerned can be integrated into the central network. It could also be a solution to this. We note, however, that, on the part of the government parties, we would like to say a, but not b. We note that we do not achieve this – to the great disappointment of the industry in question. With this I address the suggestions in the settings, proposals that the Labour Party has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e865	The representative Per Rune Henriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e868	With regard to the proposal for a representative to ask the government to present a matter on how to follow up the report on a better organised electricity network, we see it as natural that this should be followed up in the announced energy message and become a central element there. In addition, the Council of State has said that he will follow any legislative proposals in an ordinary way. Part of the report has naturally created a debate, and some of the proposals, in our view, will have major consequences. This concerns in particular the distinction between network activities and activities related to power generation. We look forward to a thorough discussion of various elements of the report and other issues. Networks have great freedom to set their tariffs. Individual concessionaires are responsible for tariffs in accordance with law, regulation and concessions. There are clear requirements, based both on the principles of Norwegian law and EU rules, that tariffs must be well-founded, objective and non-discriminatory. Statnett’s pricing strategy for the period 2014-2018 introduced its own tariff model for high-use large consumers, SFHB. These holdings are charged on the basis of their individual contribution to system operation. In addition to the proximity of power generation, it is distinguished whether industry has a long service life, high and stable consumption in summer, and whether the company has little variation in consumption within the day. The purpose of the discount is to provide all SFHB incentives for flexibility and stability, which is useful for the central network. In order for incentives to work, it is important that the discount is made available to all actors who can contribute, including those in the regional network. Statnet also provides discounts to regional network companies with SFHB associated. Of ca. 40 SFHB is nearly 30 connected to the regional network. Statnett encourages regional network companies to continue the reduction in tariffs. The vast majority of regional network companies pass on the discount, but not all. Some SFHB have been able to establish agreements that guarantee them central network conditions, even if they are connected to the regional network, while for others the pricing of regional network companies provides additional costs. This involves different treatment of enterprises. I therefore believe that there is reason to encourage the regional carriers that are not yet doing so to continue the tariff. If the regional network companies pass on the discount they receive for having SFHB attached, the price signals will reach the customers concerned. The starting point is that all customers connected to the system shall contribute to the costs of the system. The introduction of a uniform tariff model would mean that large consumers contribute less to the cost of the regional network. These costs do not disappear, but would then have to be covered by the rest of the consumption in the region. This means that expenditure is passed on to small and medium-sized enterprises and to the private market. I believe that today's tariff model has both its clear limitations and its advantages. However, I am uncertain as to how the authorities would be affected by the tariff strategy of Statnet for individual customers or groups of these. Therefore, a call for the regional network companies to continue the discount is preferable to a regulatory tariff model for SFHB in the regional network.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e889	My comments will primarily be about Innst. 190 S for 2014-2015 on a better organised power grid. I think we can all agree that there are going to be some challenges in the grid in the future, both in terms of future investment and organisation, and in particular adaptations to EU legislation as we know it will. But I think it is important to start with what also the so-called Reiten Committee started with, namely that Norway has a well-functioning power system. We have high security of supply, we have good quality, and we also have good preparedness. In addition, many of the broadcasters are also very effective, and many of the SMEs are the most effective. I think it is important to take it first, as a starting point, so that one does not over-problem the state of the Norwegian power grid. I think Norway will have to make some adjustments to the EU gradually, but in this area Norway has never had a full correlation with the EU, either in terms of regulatory development or in terms of actual organisation. That is why we should, and can, also use the possibilities for national adaptation. At least there is no reason why we should choose to have stricter legislation than the rest of Europe in this area, under the pretext of adapting to the EU. I also think that should be carefully considered in relation to the Reiten Committee: whether the report’s proposals go beyond what is necessary under EU legislation. I also believe that one should recognise that there are major investment challenges and that many of these investment challenges are quite complex. But then it is important to say that many of these challenges are not linked to the districts, they are not linked to the smallest companies, but they are linked in particular to the central network, and they are linked to the urban areas. So a reorganization, if you want to push it forward in the years ahead, won't necessarily give you greater impact on part of the investments that we're facing. The centre party thinks it would have been important and sensible if we had a broad, comprehensive debate in the Stortingen on the follow-up to the recommendations of the Reiten Committee. Many of the issues addressed there — if implemented — may have long-term and irreversible consequences for the Norwegian power grid. There are simply some important and crucial processes going on, and then it would also be natural for the Storting to discuss it on a broad basis. Therefore, the Central Party supports the proposal that a separate case should be submitted to the Stortinget. I understand that someone believes that it can be done through an energy message. The announced energy message, as the Senterpartiet sees it, must gradually become quite wide and quite extensive. I believe that the possibility of presenting a separate case to the Stortinget about the follow-up to the Reiten Committee would have been reasonable. In any case, I think it is very important that the Department and the Government do not pre-empt changes that in themselves force the companies to reorganize – forcing proposals that are irreversible and that have not been discussed on a broad political basis. I just want to mention one example there, and that's the question of functional separation. It is a matter which should in any case be discussed politically, and in which one must not pre-empt any of the holistic discussions of the Stortinget should take place. The centre party also considers the question of functional separation to be a question that could mean changes that are bureaucratic and demeaning. KS The company has calculations to show that it can generate additional costs for the industry as such. The starting point for the Norwegian power grid is good. Investment needs are high in the future. There are some important and crucial processes in the ministry and industry, and there is a need for the Stortinge to discuss them on a broad basis. The present proposal that the government should present a case on how to follow up the report on a better organised electricity network is a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e908	I would first like to state that the Norwegian power-intensive industry – the process industry – is an important part of Norway’s climate-friendly future. It is an important part of the contribution we can make internationally with as much energy from renewable energy sources as we have in Norway. In this case, these companies for outsiders are perhaps a little crypticly referred to as SFHB, i.e. large consumers with a high usage time. There will be large investments in the Norwegian network system, and so will be done. This is done due to a significant slowdown and is done due to increased production. The e-certificates – the green certificates – require a lot of network capacity to be developed. It is also done because there is a new consumption, whether on the consumer side with the amount of electric cars to be handled into a system, decisions on electrification offshore, or developing new Norwegian power-intensive industry. Then, of course, we have the decisions on foreign tables, which will lead to new investments. Of course, this will also have to be paid, and it will increase costs. A new system also provides an increased balancing need, which these high-end consumers can also contribute to. Then, as some have also pointed out, it is both correct and important that Statnet's pricing strategy, based on a net justification, has its own tariff model that provides discounts into the power-intensive industry. It is also correct and important that they give the same discount into the regional companies with a recommendation that this should also be passed on to companies within their network. Many companies benefit from this advantage, even when they are within the area of responsibility of regional network companies. But a few very few don't get it. It's for those reasons that the issue is addressed, because it's, as has been pointed out by several here, someone who is going to pay for the upgrade, and when some companies that are large in relation to the companies they operate within pay less, others have to pay more. From the left, we're not saying that this is not a very important question for the companies involved, and it's right to address the issue. We believe that this should be addressed in the energy message coming, but it should also be addressed in connection with the follow-up to the Reiten Committee, i.e. in the case of a better organised power grid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e921	Between the most valuable advantages of our long-distance country – with high mountains, deep valleys and deep fjords – is our power. She's in a class separately. We are world-leading when it comes to renewable energy through hydropower, and we have a great potential to go ahead with several renewable forms of energy, such as solar and wind, which SV has proposed in several contexts. We socialists are probably quite naturally concerned that the values that are being created are going to benefit the people. How all this force can now and in the future be distributed and organized for the benefit of people and nutrition is important. The fact that this one case of the report 'A better organised electricity network' is to be submitted to the Stortinget for thorough debate, I thought that the representatives Per Rune Henriksen and Marit Arnstad have argued well for it. I'm not pleased that the state council Tord Lien has written letters to the committee where he feels that he shares the Rite Committee's reality description and assessment of challenges in today's structure and organisation of networking. I know that I was a little worried that the proposals in the report could give a change of system that could threaten both preparedness and skills needed to maintain security of supply and society in this important sector. The ongoing development of the network, and ownership and structure, are such important issues that the Storting will deal with them. That's why we agree to ask for a matter of how the report can be followed up, together with the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The other thing, about a network tariff father, would have done well for more people. There we stand with the Labour Party and the Central Party on proposal 1 and with the Labour Party on proposal 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e932	Harvesting of the natural forces in Norwegian foxes through hydropower production and subsequent power-processing at the heart of Norwegian fjords was the basis for modern Norway. That was the basis of the welfare state we are living in today. It was the story – the present shows that power-generating industries are doing well, and I am happy to see what is clearly a mutual understanding of the interdependence between power generators and power consumers in Norway. I want to say, as someone has said, that both producers and all consumers, small and large, are well served that we both produce and operate transmission and distribution of electricity in a cost-effective way – and we do. The representative Arnstad pointed out that both the large and many of the small network companies operate very well – that is quite right. But there are some of the little ones that don't do as well. At the same time, we – as the representative Elvesuen and several others have pointed out – know that we are facing a major investment need in both the transmission network and the distribution network in the years ahead. It is driven by new production, which I have the impression that a large majority – if not a unanimous – is in favour. We are going to produce more renewable energy in Norway. It must be moved from where it is produced to where it is to be used. We also know that we are facing a new consumption pattern – a consumption pattern that is evolving. In the past, we have been concerned first and foremost about moving large enough volumes into the large population centres in Norway – now we know that more and more will be about being able to shift enough power at a moment’s notice. In addition, all Norwegian network companies shall start with something completely new. They shall initially become providers of also digital services through AMS, Advanced measurement and management systems. Then I would like to say one thing: I am, like the representative Arnstad, EU opponents. That doesn't mean I'm against everything that comes from the EU, but at least that means that sometimes I think there's a need to go beyond the EU. And in a country where we have about 140 online companies to deliver electricity to about five million citizens, I think there may be a need to go beyond the EU. It was Ola Borten Moe who put down the expert committee that former oil and energy ministers from the Eivind Reiten Central Party led. It was Ola Borten Moe, from the Central Party, who elected the other members. They have made a report that I and several others have read with great interest. And as many people have been involved, I am very much in agreement with both the way the Horseman describes the reality and the assessments he and the sample make about the need for future development. And here and now I can promise the representatives Arnstad and Henriksen – as the Committee on Reiten also brings up legislative changes, among others. in the direction that has been pursued by others, around the corporate and functional separation – an assessment of changes in the law around the company form. Then, of course, we will have to file a case for Stortinget. This government doesn't think it can change the laws itself. On that occasion, we will also consider which other parts of the Reiten Committee's recommendations we are going to address, and give the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss those issues. I think we're getting a lot of opportunity to discuss these and related issues in the Storting if not too long. This is not the way – as some have indicated – that I have arranged for these great things around the Reiten Committee to wait for the energy message. On the contrary, I believe that it is urgent, and my intention is to inform Stortingen about this work and invite Stortinget to make any decisions in good time before we deal with the energy message. In terms of tariffs, I'm starting to get a little bit of time to talk about it now, but the main principles are precisely what the Workers' Party is asking, namely that tariffs should be based on non-discriminatory and objective conditions, regardless of the level of the network in which they are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e954	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e957	What the Council of State concluded with is exactly what's the whole point. We see today that for a number of companies that are quite alike in terms of both online usage and other network conditions, these considerations are for some reason taken into account when calculating tariffs, otherwise they won't be. There has been a long discussion on network charges for this type of enterprise. Statnett has now developed such a model, which works very well. A reduction in the network tariff is granted to the regional network, which we also want to benefit the enterprises linked to the regional network. It doesn't in all cases. That is the aspect of the Workers' Party. Why does the Council of State not want to move on to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e964	Let me start by repeating what I said instead: I feel that there is a significant mutual understanding of the mutual utility of each other between power producers and distributors and power processors out in Norway. It also contributes to the continuation of the discount granted by Statnett by the vast majority of regional network owners who have large consumers with a high usage time in their network. A regulatory fixed tariff model for this type of enterprise, for which the Workers' Party is called, may appear to conflict with non-discriminatory conditions. That being said, it is also the case that Statnett provides these regional network companies with a discount because they have this type of industrial enterprise in their network, and encourages these operators to continue this discount to industry. If the industry feels that they are not treated under objective and non-discriminatory conditions, they may complain to the NVE.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e971	This government has had a varying relationship with what one presents to the Stortinget or not. Strictly speaking, you could decide 23rd round of concessions, but then you put forward a case about the edge of the ice. In this area, I am a little surprised at how big a thing really comes to Stortinget about the future power grid. In the case of functional separation requiring a legislative change, there are a number of proposals in the Reiten Committee's report which do not require real legislative changes and on which the department could strictly advance and make its own decisions without consulting the Stortinget as such. It would have been unfortunate, and I am very pleased that the Council of State says that he will give the Storting rich opportunity to discuss this matter also through a case of his own. But the question is, why is it so difficult to vote in favour of a proposal today that you get your own case to the Storting on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e978	The representative Arnstad is very well aware that I am not allowed to vote in Stortinget anyway, so my explanation of vote is unfortunately due to a later occasion. I want to say that I have been clear all along that we intend to put forward a case on the possible changes in the laws, of course. We have to do that – the government does not have the opportunity to change the law itself, and there are a lot of the things the Reiten Committee points to, which may require a change in law, in particular the issue of the organisation of ownership, on which the representative Arnstad himself was involved. For this reason, we believe it is also natural to inform the Storting about how we intend to handle other elements in the Reiten Committee. We intend to do that as soon as we finish the internal work of the Ministry of Oil and Energy on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e987	The response to the Reiten Committee and the comment from the Council of State on the Chair I am very pleased with, and I expect here to get a case dealing with the purely legal, but also wider, aspects of the Reiten Committee, which has also been notified from this pulpit earlier from the Council of State. But then it becomes more specific the question that we now have in the second proposal, i.e. the relationship for companies within the regional network that are not allowed to continue the discount recommended by Statnett. My question as to whether the Council of State sees it as natural to mention this issue in connection with the Energy Communication or the follow-up to the Committee on Reiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e994	Let me first say thank you to the representative Elvesuen, who is pleased with some of the things I have said. I am also pleased with the close interaction we have to facilitate the green shift. Increased production and more efficient distribution of power are closely linked. So it's also the way, as I know, that the representative Elvesuen is concerned about, that producing more power is not enough. We need to use it smarter and better, for example. to further develop a world-leading industry. I know that both producers and industry themselves are concerned about this, and that is, of course, something we are going to address in the energy message. But then I also want to say that we have a code today that is exactly that minority demand. If industrial enterprises do not feel that they are being treated fairly under objective conditions, they currently have the opportunity to complain to the NVE. Of course, I'm glad we have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1003	I want to follow up on the question from the representative Marit Arnstad, whom I think was good. The Minister of Oil and Energy made a good contribution to the challenges of the future in relation to Norwegian energy supply, including: the changes related to more and more power take-offs were brought up, and I also believe the customer relationship related to quality and security of supply. Although we initially have a good network in Norway today, it is going to increase in the future, not least because consumption is concentrated in short periods of time around power withdrawals, etc. Then I think it's a little strange that the expert committee deals with a better organized power grid for a future, is not presented to the Stortinget in its entirety for discussion through a big shot before a go on the concrete changes. I kind of don't hear a good argument. Can the State Council state the main argument for just saying no to a big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1010	When the majority say that they are well pleased with the Minister of Oil and Energy and then the minority say that the Minister of Oil and Energy is making a good contribution, I am concerned. But that's okay. Let me first address what Aasland's representative says, which is absolutely right: the impact challenges are going to get bigger. That means that we need to build more and more robust networks, that's absolutely right. It also states that in a situation where we are getting increasingly non-regulatory energy sources into our power system, there will be a need to lift up and remove the mantra that has been lying for some years now that the times of the large hydroelectric power plants are over. It has to be lifted away. We also need more hydropower in Norway in the future, just to balance our power systems. So I just want to say that I'm more concerned with showing action than talking about action. The reason why I believe that we now have to go further in the work of the Reiten Committee is that this has been part of the public word change for a long time. Now is the time to act. The size will be invited to both express their opinion and make the decisions that need to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1019	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1024	Too many people today will find it both difficult and demanding to deal with, but for us who are busy with the power-generating industry, the issue of equivalent network tariffs in the regional network and the central network for large consumers with high usage times is quite obvious. The reason for a situation in my county where the power-generating industry gets a hit in the millionth class is because we have built a new central network through the county. This central network has a different trajectory from that of the former central network. This in turn leads to large users with a high consumption time, e.g. the power-processing industry, can no longer connect directly to the central network. Why is it so important to connect to the central network? That's often the first question you get. Indeed, it is so easy for Statnett, in its price strategy for the period 2014–2018, to launch its own tariff model for large users with a high usage time based on the online basis. In addition to the proximity of power generation, it is differentiated whether the industry has a long service life, high and stable consumption in summer, and whether the company has little variation in consumption within the day. This means, in practice, that the power-generating industry, which is a major consumer of electricity, is given security and equivalent conditions. So once again, we can produce in Norway. A little bit to the production of more renewable energy, which many have mentioned here in their articles. We don't need any more force, we, in my state -- we export force out of the state. We don't need all of the hookways that the new central network had, and that strength. But it was to relieve the county north and south of us. Is it really so fair that the inhabitants and businesses have to pay for us to export out of our state? The main challenge with the proposed Document 8 was if it was in breach of the EEA rules. Norwegian industry has done a good job of clarifying, and this is not contrary to EEA rules. The power-generating industry is an important part of climate-friendly production in Norway, but the government – well followed by the Christian People's Party and the Left – will not facilitate its stay in Norway. The end of the government party is not surprising at all. But that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party also turn their backs on, for example. Elkem Bremander and Hydro in Høyanger – to cite two examples of companies that were hard hit in my county – were more surprising. The central network is complete, and the price increase closes in 2016-2017. Therefore, one should not be expected, one must actually act now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1042	Let me start by saying that I think it would be a strength for Norwegian energy supply if Stortinget could have the opportunity to discuss a better organised electricity network in a whole based on what was presented by the expert group that Reiten led. I think it would also be a strength for the Council of State in the further work to make any adjustments to that outlook. I note that there are no very strong arguments to prevent such a big message – it is more the will to go right on the matter without discussing the long lines of that part of Norwegian energy policy. So to the net billing, it's really a very complicated question. Payment of transport for electricity is complicated, I think we should acknowledge that. There is no quick fix or a simple solution to it. That is why the proposal is also designed as it is when we ask the government to present a case to the Storting for a uniform tariff model in order to achieve more equivalent network tariffs in the regional network and the central network for large consumers. It's quite essential, because looking into the everyday life of the industry, Norway is really a good place to invest in. But for many, it's the margins that destroy the opportunities for investment, and it's also in many places that it's the margins that spoil the prospects. After all, a key condition for the power-generating industry is what they pay in network rental – the network cost is essential. Then there may be reason why someone chooses not to invest – I do not say that it is – and I think that is actually something a total accumulation does not want to happen. That is why we are concerned that this power-processing industry framework should be as good, robust and equivalent as possible. Today's system isn't. Today's system is a statement that the framework conditions are very dependent on where you are located, and who are networks. It is a reality. That reality should at least make the government somewhat curious, and that curiosity should have led to a perhaps a little bit more searching to find some good answers to that question. I'm not saying that it's easy to find the answer, but from what we see around the country, with the differences that are actually there, it should be of interest to try to make it more equivalent and more predictable – whether one is connected to the central network or regional network, or whether one is located in the West or in the East. It's going, with that state council itself also said, not to get any less rash if you don't do anything. He himself said that the power take-off will lead to an even stronger demand for a robust network and thus even greater price variations between central and regional networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1053	It was the last two posts by the representatives of the Workers' Party that made me speak. The representative Heggø mentioned a company that I know well, Elkem Bremander. It is still in the central network. It is not clear whether it will be transferred to the regional network. That said, at least it is not clear whether or not to wind up the discount. The regional network owners are passed on to their network in Statnett’s tariff model, and Statnett encourages regional network companies to continue the discount to SFHB companies on their own network, as most regional network companies in Norway do. The companies that feel that they are not being treated on the basis of the principle that tariffs should be based on non-discriminatory, objective conditions may appeal that decision to the NVE. So here it's important not to paint black too much too soon. So to the representative of Aasland, I want to say that the Reiten Committee presented its position to me on 2 May last year. Since then, the Workers' Party has had every opportunity to make an opinion on the direction in which the power grid is to be developed. I've been crystal clear almost from day one that I believe that much of what the Reiten Committee describes as challenges now and in the future is a good description of reality. The government wants to facilitate a robust and efficient network in the future, ensuring that the consumption pattern will change, and not least ensuring that we are phased into large amounts of new renewable energy in the power grid. That is why we have been very clear that we are going to continue working on the proposals that are in the position of the Committee on Reiten. That's what we've been talking about -- on the in and out of breath -- more or less since May last year. If the Workers' Party believes any substance about the setting of the Reiten Committee, as they feel should be carried out in the public space, there are many possibilities to do so. I look forward to the debate. As I said, I am going to continue working on this, and I have an ambition, if not for too long and before the energy message, to present a case to the Stortinget, among others. on these issues, precisely because we are working by the government to facilitate more green, renewable energy in Norway and the maintenance of an efficient and robust power grid even in the decades ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1062	I take the floor completely at the bottom of the debate, because I was very surprised by the Council of State opinions at the very end. Does the Council of State mean that a decision is made on the future power system and networks through a debate in the newspaper? Does he mean that the Workers' Party should give its opinion in the media, and therefore should they have clarified what that debate and decision is like? The best way to carry out such a debate and for a minority government to secure majority voting in the Grand Duchy is by presenting a big message and giving the Storting a broad opportunity to debate the proposals that have been made, and the investigation that is on the table, rather than demanding that the parties individually clarify their positions in the media or in the public debate. I can only conclude that the last statement of the Council of State is the very best argument for the proposal that unfortunately is being voted down today by his own party colleagues and government colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1067	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1081	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1088	We have actually been two case rapporteurs for this matter: Eva Kristin Hansen was the first one, and I gradually took over because of sickness absence. Let me, on behalf of both of us, start by saying thank you to the Committee for a very good cooperation in this matter. Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Left to provide the municipality with concrete instruments in the fight to reduce air pollution and climate change. There are a number of proposals that I believe the various parties themselves will argue for. I would therefore like to spend the rest of my speaking time arguing for the proposals for decisions such as: The Labour Party is behind, and these are also the two proposals which have a majority in the Committee and which appear to be the proposals that are expected to be adopted. Then I'll start by commending the Left because what I think was a very good political initiative. Municipalities need to do a bigger job in climate action in order to achieve our national targets. It's when all the municipalities do the job, that it really does. But if they are to do the job, they must also have the means to do it. Therefore, municipalities must have better and more tools than they have today. The left shall also be praised in this proposal for connecting air quality and climate. There is no new connection, but I still think it is a very good, important and necessary track. If we're going to win the climate battle, we need more entrances to mobilize, and air quality may be the most important. I think this link is crucial for giving new impetus to climate change work, for more people to get involved. Because what is good for the municipality's air tomorrow is also good for the entire planet's climate. Air quality is a major problem. In Europe today more people die because of poor air than they do because of traffic accidents. At home in Norway, we know that it is uncomfortable for many to go outside when the air is at its worst, and for risk groups it may be dangerous to go out on a few days. This is particularly serious since the areas that are worst affected are the areas where most people live. In Oslo, for example, there are 100 000 people living in the areas that have been hit hardest. The State Road Administration, the National Health Institute and the University of Oslo have documented that mortality is extra high in the days after high air pollution. Only one month ago Oslo warned municipalities of small children and people with health problems against moving in some areas. This is a major societal problem and a major health problem. Then, as a society, we have to do more than what we do today. The municipalities are asking for more instruments. Today we ask the government to give them exactly that. Today it is expected that a unanimous increase will be proposed by the government to allow municipalities to establish low-emission zones. This is a good and important proposal, promoted by the Left, which is fully in line with the big city policy of the Labour Party, which we therefore support. We are pleased that all parties are behind this, and we hope that the government will immediately start the work, so that we can get proposals that will give the municipalities the opportunity to set up low-carbon zones as soon as possible. The second proposal adopted is adopted against the will of the government parties. We are in the situation that all six opposition parties together have tabled a proposal for a decision that the government is against. We want to be more offensive than the government parties themselves want to be. We believe that municipalities should have the means to limit the use of cars on national roads when air pollution is very high. This is a big problem in many of our big cities, and as I said, we know too much about the serious consequences if we don't get to do anything about it. This is a proposal that many of our local politicians in the big cities have requested. They want the means to do something about this. I think it is a particular pity, and actually a little surprising, that the climate minister's own party, Right, does not vote in favour of this proposal. For the Right, local politicians themselves are asking for this. Here it is to know that it is the Progress Party that has won and got an environmental victory in the bad way. Then it's good that all the other parties are able to get together to get an adopted proposal. So even if the government votes against, we assume, of course, that this is followed up by the climate minister – even if she is not here now – in a fast and good way, which means that we can soon get a case on what kind of instruments the municipalities should be able to provide. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1114	Poor air quality in our largest cities is a significant challenge especially in winter. Many important measures have been implemented, not least in the city we are now in, to prevent situations of acute air pollution from occurring. But we have some topographical challenges both in Oslo and in Bergen that make air quality particularly bad in the winter. Therefore, it is important to pay attention to the long-term measures and to focus on building up public transport, as we have done over the last ten years in this city — making it 80 pst. travel collectively in the rush hour. It is important to extend the railway, so that those who enter the cities from the cities around the big cities can travel by public transport instead of travelling by car. It is important to facilitate cycling, so that those who are going to take shorter trips can travel by bicycle or on foot rather than by car. And it's important with the public promise that local municipalities and the state have to phase in zero-emission cars at a fast pace. Fuels for public transport are also essential. Cars emit a lot, but buses emit even more, and making sure that the buses we have go on environmentally friendly fuels is an important contribution to reducing local air pollution, especially when it's bioethanol, biogas, hydrogen or electricity that replaces diesel. In Oslo, there is also another important measure to reduce local air pollution, and there is land flow for Color Line. Color Line has large particulate emissions when the boats are at berth, and the provision of shore-side electricity makes the emissions when these large boats are at berth drop sharply. We also need other instruments, and therefore we are pleased that a proposal has been made to establish low-carbon zones or to allow municipalities to establish low-carbon zones. How to design these low-emission zones, we have to get back to it. It can be assumed that both smaller low-emission zones and larger urban areas are covered by such a low-emission zone. On the right, we believe that the low-emission zones are respected in Decision II of the case, but we note that the majority want their own proposals for instruments to limit the use of cars on the national highways. In this context, it is important to note that heavy transport is a problem as big as private car transport on national roads. It is not covered by the proposal promoted by the majority today. But I'm glad the government is working actively to get more goods from the road to the keel and the track. Reducing heavy transport through the centre of Oslo is essential for tackling local air pollution. A proposal has also been made to introduce a local fossil oil tax for firing in cities — or to allow municipalities to do so. In this context, it is worth recalling that we in this room agree that we should have a ban on fossil oil firing from 2020. The government and the cooperation parties increased the fuel oil levy sharply in the state budget last year, resulting in significantly more expensive firing of fossil oil. In combination with the government's extended support schemes through Enova – to support those who want to replace fossil oil firing with environmentally friendly alternatives – there is a very broad and good tool in place to do something about fossil oil firing in cities. Another major pollution problem is refuelling. In Oslo, we have had a program since 1997 to support individuals who want to replace their wood stoves with clean wood stoves. There is a successful, effective and practical response to local air pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1131	A healthy environment and clean air are important, and I want to take the hall back in a little bit: in 1951, I think it was, one experienced a special weather phenomenon over London, with a huge high pressure that made pollution and smog not slip out. This resulted in the deaths of over 12,000 people due to smog and poor environment. That's why it's good that we get low-emission zones put in place in a sensible way. But I must also say that there are things in the representative proposal from the Left that I am very much indulging in. It is requested that proposals be made to empower municipalities to impose local environmental taxes on oil fires. I am a little surprised by the Left's proposal, because the party knows – both from the terms of the government's agreement with the Left, and not least from the point of view of what the Stortinget, with the support of the Left, has already decided – that a ban should be imposed on the firing of fossil oil in households and in other buildings by 2020. Then you can wonder what the real purpose of proposal No is. 3 from the Left, because it is quite contradictory to what is already established. It is said that the road often turns out as you go, but when you know that we are in 2015 today, and that the ban will come into force in 2020, and in the meantime you have to transfer authority to the municipalities to charge taxes, then in many ways the way you go disappears. It is also the case that this government has granted more money to Enova, in order to offer support for phasing out, among other things. oil boiler for private households – something else left to support. Nor is it the case that the majority of the Committee is not in favour of giving the municipalities greater scope for action on the choice of instruments to reduce local pollution in cities. The majority support the provision of the Road Traffic Act to municipalities to establish low-emission zones. But then there was this with the arrangement of such a system, which can be discussed. On the one hand, it is important to allow municipalities to introduce local climate measures, but is it so beneficial and appropriate to introduce measures that transfer tax rights from large and state to municipalities? I don't think so. Its freer municipalities are in such a case, it could very easily lead to a much more fragmented and less transparent charging code. Local charging will also deprive Storting of the possibility to set taxes and charges on the basis of common principles. It is also clear that neither the Excise Tax Act nor the Excise Tax Regulation opens up the delegation of the Tax Authority of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for environmental taxes on oil fires. Furthermore, Paragraph 75(a) of the Constitution states that taxes and charges are to be adopted by the Stortingen for one year at a time and that any legislative work in this area could result in a change to the Constitution. That is why it is difficult for the Progress Party to be able to support the original proposal of the Left in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1144	There is no doubt that air pollution in big cities is a serious health problem. That said, air quality in Norway has improved in the last 20 years, according to environmental status.no. However, local air pollution remains a problem in several cities, and national local air quality targets were not achieved in 2013. The health risk associated with local air pollution depends on the level and duration of exposure of the pollutants. Children, pregnant women, the elderly and those with underlying diseases such as asthma, cardiovascular diseases and respiratory diseases are the most vulnerable to air pollution. In a report from the State Road Administration, it is documented that several people with heart and lung disorders die a few days after the air pollution in Oslo has been extra high. And researchers have compared about 50,000 deaths in Oslo over ten years. They've compared the mortality rate of people over 50 years with accurate data on local pollution from day to day in Oslo. In Europe, it is assumed that each person loses an average of nearly one year of his life as a result of air pollution. Norway has set national targets to reduce local air pollution, so that our health is not damaged. Today, national targets are exceeded in most major cities and agglomerations in Norway. In Norway, particulate matter and NO2 contribute most to local air pollution. We also have legally binding limit values in the pollution regulation. The threshold was exceeded in Oslo, Stavanger, Drammen and Fredrikstad in 2013. For NO2, the limit is broken regularly in the largest cities. Despite the local air quality pollution authority in the municipality, we have seen that the municipalities lack the necessary tools to address the problems. In particular, this applies to traffic measures on the days when the pollution is worst. In-depth research has been carried out which concludes that a ban on the use of diesel vehicles during poor air quality periods will be an effective emergency measure, as stated above. Oslo Municipality, where such a decision was taken by the municipality, but where the Road Directorate did not find the basis for doing the same for the highways. Experience has unfortunately shown that it may be challenging to reach an agreement on the implementation of a possible ban on the use of diesel vehicles during periods of poor air quality. In order to achieve good results, it is important to use the whole of the instrument and to cooperate well locally, regionally and centrally. It is important that national authorities encourage municipalities to continue and intensify efforts to reduce air pollution. It is also important to give new instruments to municipalities. We therefore vote in favour of the proposals to authorise municipalities in the Road Traffic Act to maintain low-emission zones. We are also voting to ask the government, in an appropriate way, to make proposals for instruments that in large cities can limit the use of cars on national roads during periods when air pollution is high. At the same time, it is important that any provision of such a right should be made in such a way as to ensure the mobility and promotion of transport of social importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1173	The centre is concerned that major cities have special problems related to air pollution and that there is a serious environmental and health problem for very many. It is therefore positive that, in its current position, the Committee agrees in part on a number of assessments and measures, that there is a majority in favour of the proposal to restrict motor vehicle use, and that new institutions should be given to the municipalities there. I would like to stress that in the proposal for which there is a majority in favour of car use, there is a concern that there must be a variation and a differentiation in the nature of the instruments that you want to use. This isn't just about Oslo, it's also about Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim, and there may be different instruments that are important in the different cities. In some cities, it may be necessary to limit the use of diesel cars on a few days, while elsewhere, the issue of alcohol duty, date driving and environmental differentiation in tolls is equally important or more important in order to achieve a reduction in air pollution. It is also important that the ability to limit car use should be designed so that one does not make it difficult for the type of socially important transport that one needs, but that there is flexibility associated with it. Then I think that such a proposal could work well and be well managed by the municipalities involved, around the country. But the Center Party also believes that in the longer term, one must consider cities that do not have cars powered by fossil fuels. In the longer term, it has to be understood that cities are simply a zero-emission vehicle. There are also many measures that you can discuss over and over again, which are interesting. When the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party will now expand the E18 from Lysaker and westwards, one could imagine that one there built the road so that a separate zero-emission vehicle field was built into the city, thus further favoring them in relation to today's situation. It would be a way to encourage a few cities that had a car use that was based only on zero-emission technology. The centre party is also involved in the proposal concerning the prohibition of fossil oil firing and the issue of local taxation. I acknowledge that there may be some fundamental considerations related to it, but the central party is positive that there is also a permit for the authority of the municipalities to impose local environmental taxes on oil fires.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1191	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1194	I'm addressing proposal No. 1, from the Centre Party, Left, SV and the Environment Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1199	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1203	Air pollution in large cities needs to be reduced, and must be reduced rapidly, because the situation has actually worsened in recent years – especially through the 2008 tax conversion that increased the number of diesel cars, and it is diesel cars that are the major problem – but also because we are pursuing a policy where we want more people to live centrally in large cities, with a varied population, with families with children. Then it is an obligation that we have to ensure that air pollution goes down. This concerns general air pollution, it has to go down over time, but it also involves lowering pollution in the most polluted days, where it has the greatest negative effect. Air pollution is so bad that it is harmful to health, harmful to health in general, but on the most polluted days in particular. It is then right that we should, on the part of the state, take the long-term measures. We have to bet on public transport, we have to get goods on the road, we have to have a ban on oil fires – a decision that was otherwise taken here in Stortinget last after this proposal was presented by the Left. We have to work on shore electricity for boats, we have to have advantages for zero-emission vehicles and get the conversion needed there, and a number of other measures. A lot is being done by local authorities today. The problem is recognised, it's heavy-duty, it's better washing the roads to bring down the amount of suspended particulate matter, it's, like in Oslo, that you have to have zero emissions in public transport by 2020, and you're going through your own business, in this city, too, where you're going to have a zero-emission vehicle from this year on in your entire business. All of these are long-term measures that need to be implemented. The proposal has several elements, and some of them are left very pleased with. A proposal here to impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry has already been adopted by the Stortinget in winter and, in an earlier case in winter, we have also been decided that there will be a ban on oil fires from 2020. But I have to say that there has been a long frustration locally over the extent to which the state has been willing to come up with measures to implement the decision of the climate agreement in the case of oil fires. Locally, the will has been there, nationally, it has not been there. Now we finally have a new decision, which is in place. We get the introduction of environmental zones. Environmental zones are also a long-term measure — common in European cities — that can be set up specifically to achieve a cleaner distribution of goods in the city, where you do not have any tools at present. Then there's the last big proposal, which concerns the ban on diesel cars on the most polluted days. Now this is not an obligation on local authorities; it is an opportunity for local authorities to introduce this. In Oslo, these decisions are already in place – I myself presented them as the City Council, and there is a broad majority in the City Council. The system has been arranged. It could have been introduced several years ago, the only brake is that the state and the Storting have not been willing and had the same courage to implement. There are three sources of air pollution – they account for about one third each. It's the private diesel cars, it's the distribution of goods locally – it can be tackled with environmental zones – and then it's the transit of heavy transport. There you can take hold of it by getting more on track. It'll take time. As long as it is not in place, major initiatives must also be taken by the State to create good bypasses that can be used on the most polluted days. I'm addressing our two minority proposals. One goes to be able to impose charges on oil fires, the other has a clear wording to allow municipalities to impose a ban on the most polluted days, which I think is necessary. So we also vote in favour of the majority vote, which gives a slightly more unclear basis. But then I would like to point out that it is extremely important that the government now comes up with a case after this decision that allows cities to start taking action from the next winter. Now we're having this discussion this year after year. Now, cities must be given the opportunity to use powerful measures, so that we can reduce pollution and also Norwegian cities can achieve the objectives that lie there, including the requirements that we have against the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1220	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1223	The air is health-threatening, but it also gives bad brain development. On Friday 13 March, I read in weekly Newspaper Day and Time about a new Spanish study from Creal in Barcelona. It scared me. One has examined the elephants at 39 dents, and the researchers have found that the city air is even more dangerous than we know before. In this room, we have before pointed out disease and death as a result of suspended particulate matter, exhaust gas and nitrogen dioxide, NO2 – especially for people who have health problems already, by having airway plagues, heart and car diseases. In the study from Spain, Jordi Sunyer, as the leader of the study, says that he is amazed at the clear results of the school students. He does not know of any study that has taken into account the relationship between air quality and cognitive development as thoroughly as this one. It shows that especially the ultrafine particles in the air are suspected of damaging the human brain. For Spanish kids, this means that in clean air schools they develop cognitively much faster and better than in urine air schools. Then we can think a little bit about what our city looks like, and each one has the worst and the best school results. I also want to praise the Left to raise the issue. In the last few months, we have repeatedly presented frightening background figures that show how important this is. 1,500 people a year assume a death in Norway of pollution, while still getting numbers that show that driving is increasing. When we had committee work on this a few months ago, we got a visit from the bureau in Oslo and Bergen, who wanted more room for action from us. It is then very much in favour that the parties to the government will not be willing to give the cities the space for action they are asking for. The support parties are also not fully involved in all the proposals that have been submitted on this subject. Now we have seen that the Progress Party has been most difficult for supported actions that provide increased local space for action, but neither the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party will fully meet their locals. I want to deal with the suggestions that SV has with others, which have not already been recorded. I'm happy with the agreement we have about what we're together about, but SV has submitted a number of suggestions that we haven't got multiples for. We have been in favour of restrictions on the running of diesel cars on days of poor air quality, environmentally-differentiated tolls, the closure of parking spaces, the rapid establishment of collective fields and the availability of local environmental taxes. I hope that we can soon take these issues as seriously as we do when we debate the E18 and that kind of thing, because we're choking our cities. We need more measures. In this context, we should have given the municipalities more space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1243	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1246	For the past few weeks, I have traveled around the country and met green list candidates who make choices at the fall's municipal elections to make their communities safer, more inclusive and more environmentally friendly. The decisions we take – and do not – here today will directly affect their work and their scope of action in the work they will do in the next four years. That is why I also join the cheerleader who commends the Left for the initiative on this matter – it is very important. And it is very good that the Stortinget has now spent a great deal of time assessing the instruments that municipalities should have to use to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. We in the Greens are also pleased that the government is now looking at measures to limit car use on national roads when there is a particularly high level of air pollution. This should be a high priority, so that we release several winter days where asthmatics and children are asked to stay indoors because of dangerous air. It is also good that municipalities now have the opportunity to establish low-emission zones, which is an even longer-term and preventive scheme. More and more people realize that we have everything to do with a greener urban policy where the car gets less space in the cityscape. It is about pollution, yes, but it is also about well-being and area, safer local environments, greater freedom of movement for cyclists and pedestrians, urban spaces that inspire and invite to activity. It's about less noise, less cows and better public health. So a yes to less pollution and greenhouse gas emissions is also a yes to a better city. Many of those who have spoken before me are probably in agreement with this, but we in the Greens do miss the fact that the Storting really takes the consequences of the desire for sustainable urban development. We are making some good decisions here today, but the majority are actually voting against a number of good proposals promoted by the Green, SV or Left Environmental Party. The majority will not allow local charges that speed up the phasing-out of oil fires or the possibility of refusing access for ships to add if you cannot connect to shore electricity. The majority will not restrict the use of diesel on national roads. The majority will not provide municipalities with more means of expanding electric car charging stations, and the majority will not help municipalities to obtain statistics on greenhouse gas emissions locally. In reality, the Storting here throws away a great opportunity to give local elected people more tools to test solutions and create preliminary projects that inspire the ‘green shift’, which has now become daily speech – tools that allow the shift to take place from below. And at the same time, the same majority of the transport committee contributes to more car traffic, not less. The fact that the Workers' Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party are eager trailers to deploy the E18 and increase car traffic towards Oslo is an example of this. The Green Party has taken reverse action in our alternative state budget for 2015. Firstly, we have chosen important collective projects in and around cities, and also in the districts, ahead of capacity-enhancing road projects such as ferry-free E39 and new E18. Secondly, we greatly increase the appropriations allocated to the charging stations, so that it becomes realistic to phase out the fossil cars. Thirdly, we propose new, earmarked resources for climate competence and good climate management locally, so that the municipalities' own climate action plans, which they are required to have, are actually followed up. We in the Greens also believe that the state must give credible and proper advice on health and environmental issues, and we have therefore today presented what we believe to be the most necessary proposal for a representative to lower the limit values for particulate matter. I hope it gets a good deal of treatment in the committee. The local communities are the carriers of the green transition we are about to enter. The Greens are now going to double the local population, so I can inform you that the Storting will soon meet much more and much louder demands to provide municipalities with more instruments to reduce pollution in their communities. I bring up the four good proposals on which the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1274	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1277	Poor air quality in our cities leads to health consequences for the people who live there. Road traffic is the main source of exceedances of local air limit values. In the long term, cleaner vehicles and increased bets on public transport will contribute to better air quality. Air quality has improved in recent years, including: as a result of measures taken in cities. Calculations from TØI show that the emissions of NO2 in the Oslo area with a natural replacement of vehicles could decrease from 2015 and that the applicable NO2 limits can be reached within a 10-year period. Nevertheless, urban air quality is a challenge that has health implications here and now. Municipalities are the local air quality pollution authority. The State has an important role to play in facilitating adequate instruments for municipalities and other plant owners. In recent years, instruments such as cow pricing, higher tolls on days of high air pollution, environmental limit, date driving and heavy-duty tyres are open. Nevertheless, a number of municipalities are calling for more targeted instruments. This is a matter also ESA is concerned about. On 11 February this year, ESA Norway filed an action before the EFTA Court for breach of the Air Quality Directive. The government has therefore started work on introducing additional instruments to improve air quality. In line with the Committee's recommendation, the Ministry of Transport will now initiate legislative work with other departments concerned in order to establish low-emission zones in municipalities that wish to do so. The municipalities concerned will be consulted at work. Further efforts are also being made to facilitate environmental differentiation through the AutoPASS system. The Ministry of Transport is investigating costs and possible solutions with the departments concerned. In the light of the investigation, the government will take a final decision on the question of using the AutoPASS system for environmental differentiation. In addition, the government will assess the possibilities for free public transport on high-air pollution days. The municipality of Bergen has called for the possibility of rejecting ships in ports in days of poor air quality. This raises complex legal issues and the Legal Service will therefore be consulted here. A diesel ban is an effective measure to reduce NO2 emissions in an emergency situation. However, there are practical challenges related to the imposition of a diesel ban, and the government has therefore not proposed the imposition of a diesel ban in Oslo now. I note that the Committee has also not made such a proposal. However, the Committee supports proposals for decisions aimed at the return of the government to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain with proposals for measures that could restrict the use of cars on national roads in major cities during periods when air pollution is high. The Ministry of Transport will consider the possibility of differentiating a possible diesel ban in order to focus primarily on passenger cars outside of business. With regard to the proposal for a decision empowering municipalities to impose local environmental taxes on oil fires, I point out that the climate agreement agrees to phase out fossil oil firing in households and to baseload in other buildings towards 2020. The government is now preparing a ban that will apply from 2020, as requested by the Storting. The government has extended and amended Enova’s grant scheme for an additional measure by households. This will make it easier for households to convert into renewable energy. Granting municipalities the power to impose local environmental taxes on oil firing requires extensive investigations. I think the most important thing we can do now is put in place the national ban on fossil oil firing. I am positive that the municipalities also take their own initiative to phase out the firing of fossil oil. This may help to speed up the phase-out process. Better local air is an important theme to which the government will continue to pay attention in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1326	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1329	Thanks for the post – well and good with many long-term measures. It is also very good that the municipalities are given the permits, whether there are higher prices in the bombing on contaminated days, date driving, environmental differentiation or cow pricing. The problem with this, however, is that it does not help in the most polluted days. If you want the pollution down on the most polluted days, you have to go directly to the source, and the source is diesel. That is to say, reversions and passenger cars and diesel cars. Then my question becomes: with the decision we are now making, will the Council of State also investigate measures that can actually make us below the levels of pollution that we must, even with the limitation of diesel cars, before we get to the next winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1334	As I have said in previous debates we have had on this issue, the municipalities have some tools they can use that they can use to an even greater extent than they do now. I think it is very good that we now have a good dialogue between the municipalities and the state that we need more tools in the toolbox. We know that a diesel ban is an effective measure to reduce NO2 emissions in an acute situation, but the State Road Service has, however, assessed that the consequences of such a ban on state roads in Oslo would be disproportionate. But I noticed that the committee is asking the government to investigate the tools needed by the big cities to limit the use of cars on national roads during periods when air pollution is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1342	Reference is made to the State Road Service’s assessment, because the State Road Service has made an assessment of the possibilities for re-routing. This applies in Oslo. They have also problemated how the cars that drive on the ferry will get out of town. Both parts mean I can be handled. One is a roundabout. Then there are some measures around schools and for the cars on the ferries. It can be handled. However, what the state road service has not done, and no one else has done, is to assess the health consequences of failing to provide powerful measures and the costs of failing to take effective action. Then my question remains: Will we have the necessary investigations so that the Storting can now decide that cities can ban diesel cars on the most polluted days – which is the only thing that can help – even if it is also important to say that these are measures that nobody really wants to take, because there are long-term measures to help?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1348	The government has noticed the wishes of the Municipality of Oslo, and as I said, we notice, of course, what the committee asks us to do. Now we're going to figure that out. But it is quite complicated to put a diesel ban, and as I said in my post, there has to be some further investigation, also to distinguish between passenger cars for normal driving and commercial passenger cars. So here's more that can be done to limit the challenges that we're facing too many diesel cars in a few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1353	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1369	At the end of May, the Hordamuseet opens an exhibition on waste treatment. In 1881, Bergen received the first municipal renovation service in Scandinavia. What happened then was that waste was collected in an organized way under municipal law. A powder factory was built that recycled the waste for fertilisers, which was then sold. This was a good shop for many decades until the fertilizer made its entrance into the market. The point is that we got a solution to an increasing waste problem, which gave a good environment, good health protection, and which gave income. In other words, the market served society. Many have changed since then. Your rating has changed. We've become more people, and we have more waste per capita. Waste recovery is an objective, whether for energy recovery or for material recovery, which is the most desirable. There is a common strategy – common objective – in Norwegian policy. Landfill has been banned. Recovery is the rule. Many municipalities have taken this seriously. Some have invested in energy recovery facilities and district heating. Population growth and the expected increase in the amount of waste that municipalities are obliged to handle have made it necessary to overcapacity, which has been offered in the market. There are two factors that cause these municipalities that have taken that responsibility toil now. One is competition from Sweden, the other is the new rule for costing. Sweden has had district heating and energy recovery for 60 years. Many of the installations operated there are written down and can be run at very low costs. Sweden now has a massive overcapacity on the combustion side. They can burn 2 million tonnes more waste per year than they produce themselves. This leads to Swedish incineration plants being priced in the European market. Norway exports 450 000 tonnes of waste to Sweden. It's thousands of trailer loads. It is a poor environmental policy, and it burdens municipal energy recovery facilities because no one can compete with Swedish prices. The second relationship is a new cost-sharing regulation, which came after ESA concluded that old legislation does not sufficiently prevent cross-subsidisation between what is a public task, which is financed by levy, and what is a competing activity, by entering and using free capacity. A new regulation will then be adopted on the basis of which the most rigorous interpretation of EU/EEA law was based. As a result, municipal combustion plants do not have the possibility to compete for waste and therefore cannot use any residual capacity. This in turn has significant effects. In Bergen, the BIR had to plan to build a biofuels plant to replace oil-fired district heating in one of the major districts, Loddefjord, in Bergen. Oil firing continues, the tiles are burned in the combustion plant in the Council to ensure volume for this, and I think we should all agree that there is a very bad environmental policy and very bad climate policy, not least in the light of the debate that took place before this matter. Furthermore, the BIR has announced that the renovation fee may need to be substantially increased in order to compensate for the loss of income from the use of free residual capacity. It's not just that you get rid of an income, you have to fire at these energy recovery facilities to maintain your obligations to deliver heat. That means you have to use other things than waste to create the heat that's coming. The winner in this situation is the transport company, which makes good money in transporting 450 000 tonnes of waste per year, and Swedish paid-up facilities, which with overcapacity of 2 million tonnes are capable of being price-fixing, and which can set the price based on their needs for return. It doesn't have to be like this. As in Denmark and the United Kingdom, Norway may have some sort of restriction on waste exports, even a ban such as that in Denmark. This will improve the framework conditions for a forward-looking waste policy in municipalities. It will eliminate hundreds of thousands of tonnes of waste from the road network, and it will be in line with the EU's policy of treating waste where it occurs. We can also use the action space contained in the EU/EEA legislation to obtain a reasonable cost allocation that can make a reasonable use of available residual capacity in Norwegian combustion plants. But we don't. We're not using these possibilities that we have, to get meat on our legs in our waste strategy. The result is a policy that is bad for the environment, which is expensive for the inhabitants and more lucrative for private market players in Norway and combustion plants in Sweden. With regard to Sweden, it is interesting to note that just a few days ago there was a debate in the Swedish Parliament where it is clear that Swedish politicians are also sceptical about the situation. It is a wish in Sweden that their overcapacity should be used to replace the landfill of waste in Europe, not to compete for energy recovery in Norway. Perhaps it will be Swedish environmental politicians who need to save our environmental policy? The Labour Party believes that market forces can be a useful service in the construction of society. In this complex of cases, waste policy appears to be the server of the market and not the other way around. Is it so that we have to put our trust in Swedish environmental policy to correct this, or will the Minister for Climate and Environment take action, so that we can find back to the good framework for waste policy as it was carried out in Bergen over 130 years ago. We solve a problem, we create a better environment – we do it – and we make money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1399	The main objective of the Norwegian waste management system is to ensure that waste is handled so as to minimise damage and disadvantage to humans and the environment. The costs of waste treatment shall be borne by the person responsible for the waste. Waste policy must also build up under the environmental objectives of the government. It is important to optimise the use of resources by reducing the amount of waste and stimulating reuse and recycling. The recycling and energy use of waste also contributes to the use of small raw materials and reduces emissions from the production and use of raw materials. In the design of EU legislation, resource use and access are key elements. Both in Norway and in the EU, there is a clear desire to reduce the use of landfills and that waste that can be recycled does not go to energy recovery or landfill. Much of the waste has gone from being a problem to becoming a requested resource. The use of waste for district heating and other energy purposes reduces dependence on fossil energy. Our food waste can be used as a raw material for biogas production. That's good use of resources. The government has developed a biogas strategy to cut climate emissions, and food waste is one of several possible raw materials. The Directorate-General for the Environment shall address requirements for the disposal of wet organic waste for that purpose. The municipality has, as the interpellant refers to, a central role in the waste sector. It is a core task for the municipality to provide for the collection of household waste. The municipality shall also ensure that the waste is well managed. In line with the so-called principle of self-sufficiency, municipalities shall set a waste charge covering the costs of collecting and handling the waste. Municipalities may choose to collect the waste themselves or place it on the tender. Municipalities also choose whether to treat the waste themselves or to outsource it. So the central thing is that the waste is treated well – not who treats it. The business community itself is responsible for ensuring the proper management of food waste. Solutions have been established for this purpose. A municipality providing treatment services for industrial waste and for waste from other municipalities is a market player. Then the municipality must compete on equal terms in that market. Therefore, when municipalities and municipal waste companies choose to treat industrial waste and household waste from other municipalities, there is a need to allocate common costs in order to avoid cross-subsidisation. Cross-subsidies between the municipal regulatory management of household waste and the municipal management of waste in the market are prohibited under both the pollution law and competition law. This brought the Ministry to the fore in the process against the regulation on the setting of a waste charge. The regulation confirms and specifies the applicable legislation. Nor has it previously been possible to cover the costs associated with municipal waste management in the market through the waste charge paid by households. The waste charge shall cover the costs associated with the municipal waste sector. It also follows from the Pollution Act that revenues from the treatment of waste in the market cannot be used to reduce the waste charge. The recent change in the pollution regulation also underlines this aspect of the principle of self-sufficiency. This means that the population pays fully for the management of the waste that the inhabitants themselves generate. This will reduce the amount of waste and ensure more material recovery and more socio-economic waste management. Municipalities play a central role in the waste sector. Many municipalities are also at an early stage in implementing new solutions. The clarification of the way in which the fee for waste is to be set shall not prevent municipalities from continuing to discharge their responsibilities properly. In a European market, waste is imported and exported for recycling, energy use and disposal through several waste streams. The interpellant indicates that public waste actors have expressed concern that the framework conditions make it difficult to develop sound and environmentally sound solutions locally. This concern includes the export of waste to Swedish combustion plants. Exports of waste to Sweden are not a new phenomenon, and waste is also imported into Norway. Although local solutions are positive, there is little evidence of any clear environmental benefit associated with preventing the export of waste. Norway is a long-distance country and it is not certain that a national site will be closest. It is also the case that municipalities are free to choose where they want the waste to be treated, and it may lead to an additional cost for individual municipalities to have to deliver waste locally. However, this is a topic that I have wanted to be clarified, and I have therefore entrusted the Environment Directorate with the task of describing and evaluating legislation relating to limiting shipments of waste to treatment, including the so-called subsidiarity principle of the EU. A last question that often arises when it comes to the role of the municipality in the competitive waste market is the ability of the municipality to award long-term contracts, also called exclusive rights, to its own waste companies. This availability of waste may provide a basis for long-term investment. It may also give rise to different competitions for actors who do not have the same stable source of raw material or resources. There are many different actors and interests in this area and many views on this issue. I have therefore asked the Environment Directorate to assess the importance of granting exclusive rights as an instrument for achieving the objectives of waste policy. The Directorate shall further assess whether current legislation and its practice promote the development of waste treatment in line with waste policy objectives. They shall assess whether it contributes to good and cost-effective treatment solutions for household waste and shall elucidate any correlation between waste treatment and the production of other services/products, such as biogas and district heating. The waste field is wide and has many actors. There are many interests and considerations. The waste field is also being developed. While waste before was a problem that had to be solved, we are now engaged in maximising the use of resources in the waste. Waste policy must ensure framework conditions that deliver a good result for people and the environment. This will be the basis for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1437	Government posts suggest that there is at least a movement, in the sense that they have asked for investigations to look at the situation. This is a situation that worries a lot in the municipalities around, especially those who have taken seriously their obligations to follow up a waste strategy where it is about recovering waste, not transporting it out of the municipality to get rid of it. It can be done in a very cost-effective way – as I have said – when we have an overcapacity of two million tonnes a year in the neighbouring country, and a transport industry that is eager to get assignments. Therefore, the concept of ‘good and cost-effective solutions’ can be quite contradictory. What can be good in the long term for society and for the environment is not necessarily what appears to be the most cost-effective, when the cost-effective causes heavy pressures on the environment, which are not priced into it. It is a waste stream in Europe that the Council of State points to. These are sorted waste. It can also be said that we also import waste into Norway, for example. to compensate for waste shipped to Sweden. We have to fire in the ovens, and sorted waste from the United Kingdom is also imported into Norway. Of what is sent to Sweden, there are – I have been told – problems with the level of sorting, as the Swedish environmental authorities have pointed out several times, and which should be looked at, because if it is true, it is also a breach of the prerequisites for this type of export. The Council of State pointed out, quite correctly, that having a good energy recovery system for waste can help reduce fossil energy use. That's exactly what's happening in Loddefjord, Bergen, as I pointed out in my post. With these new cost-sharing rules – with the interpretation of the EU/EEA legislation provided by the government – the simple and straightforward consequence is that there will be no fissile plant in Loddefjord. You continue oil firing in Loddefjord. It's not good environmental policy, according to my concepts. Nor is it good climate policy. It is not forward-looking, and it does not provide the opportunity to pursue a good waste policy in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1446	The waste field is wide and has many actors. It's also an area of development. I have now described Norwegian waste policy and the issues that the Environment Directorate is now assessing and investigating. The point is that waste policy will ensure a framework that will deliver a good result for the environment, and this will be the basis for further development. Our starting point has been that cross-subsidisation between the municipality's statutory management of household waste and the management of waste in the market was also prohibited before the regulatory change. When costs are allocated in accordance with the Regulation, ensuring fair competition in the market for food waste and ensuring compliance with the principles of self-cost and ‘pollutants pay’. Then there's a problem about transporting waste for treatment, and we know that we both export and import. That is why, as I said, I have asked for more information on this issue, and therefore the Environment Directorate has been entrusted with the task of assessing the legislation on transport and the so-called subsidiarity principle. It is important that municipal access to waste can provide a basis for long-term investment, but we also know that it can provide different competition for actors who do not have the same stable source of raw material or resources. The debate shows that there are many different actors and interests in this area, and there are also many views on the issue. That is why I have asked the Environment Directorate to assess the importance of granting exclusive rights as an instrument for achieving the objectives of waste policy. Now that we know how waste has become a resource, it is important that we also look at any correlation between waste treatment and the production of other services and products, such as biogas and district heating. I think this debate shows how complicated this has now become, and that it is important that we include all sorts of assessments in waste policy. That's why we've asked for more investigation of some of these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1455	Thanks to the interpellant, who is addressing an important theme. Norway has, as the interpellant writes, clear ambitions in the waste policy to reduce the amount of waste, the reuse of objects, the recycling of materials and the energy use of waste. Public waste treatment is the backbone of the Norwegian waste industry, but there are also strong elements of market mechanisms and private operators — yes, and that is good. The waste has gone from being a burden to becoming a resource that is in demand, and we'll be happy for that, as Councillor Sundtoft is. In addition, the interpellant writes that public waste actors have expressed strong concern about their framework conditions following the introduction of a new regulation on proportionate cost sharing and many react to the fact that large quantities of waste are transported across the country to Swedish combustion plants. It is claimed that this makes it difficult to develop appropriate and environmentally friendly solutions locally. New cost sharing and waste export are the result of waste becoming a market commodity and market needs leading to societal needs. So what is society's need in this context? Indeed, after the millennium it was invested in combustion plants with large public contributions, for example. from Enova, in the billion class at the same time as having a combustion tax that was very harmful to the national waste industry. So it was cheaper to export the waste than to burn it domestically in the new combustion plants, or in the district heating plants. The cost of incineration of Norwegian waste led to the conclusion of long-term agreements with Swedish combustion plants, which led to half-machineling by the very majority of combustion plants here in Norway, and a major problem in covering investment costs. In the turn of the year 2009/2010, the opposition – at the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – raised the problem and indicated that 20 000 trailer cases of waste are transported annually for incineration in Swedish combustion plants followed by Norwegian combustion plants – 450,000 tonnes. This is both poor environmental policies and poor management of taxpayers' money, the argument was then. Furthermore, one argued that it is meaningless when the red-green government on the one hand uses billions of taxpayers’ money in investment grants for the construction of district heating plants in Norway based on the incineration of waste, and on the other hand creates a strange tax that causes the waste to end up in Swedish facilities. It was not until October 2010 that the levy was removed to ensure a level playing field between Swedish and Norwegian combustion plants, but as mentioned it was too late, because long-term agreements on exports of waste to Sweden had been concluded. So the main responsibility for still exporting 450 000 tons of waste is actually with the red-green government, which was very slow to remove this fee that made it pay to export to Sweden. So the depreciation of responsibility for this is, to put it mildly, alarming. Interpellanten, representative Henriksen, further asks what the Council of State will do to prevent the market from becoming a master of waste policy rather than a server. A good interaction between the public and business actors in the waste industry is the best solution for a cost-effective and environmentally good management of Norwegian waste, based on a policy that does not lead to a return on running waste from the West and to reception stations in our neighbouring countries. This government has also removed the landfill charge, because it was not appropriate either, because it was perceived to be bureaucratic and simply little owned in the context of the environment. Furthermore, the Council of State has pointed to the current state of play, which will make it possible for waste policy to look at the future, contrary to what one has now done for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1478	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an interesting and topical issue. As the inter-pellant himself describes, many people are overestimated, not least in terms of environmental impact, by the fact that waste is shipped between different countries before it is treated. We have to assume that the development of waste management has changed significantly in recent years. In the past, waste was a problem that was often solved by landfilling it in each municipality in more or less suitable areas. This again created leachate problems and odours, and instead it began to sort out waste fractions for recovery. Through this development, citizens were given the opportunity to actively contribute to environmental work by sorting their household waste. The recovery and burning of residues is logical and easy to understand. With this development, waste has gone from being a problem to becoming a resource and a commodity. Food waste is a good example of this. In my home municipality, food waste was used for many years to produce land. Other uses may be biogas production, which has been addressed by the government through the development of its own biogas strategy. Municipalities play a central role in the treatment of waste. They shall provide for the collection of household waste and provide for a fee to cover collection and handling. The management may be carried out on its own initiative or on the basis of tenders. Fees shall be determined on the basis of the principle of self-sufficiency: citizens shall pay for the waste they generate – a proper and good principle. The challenges arise when municipal waste facilities also receive waste from businesses and/or other municipalities and thus become a market player. Cross-subsidy between the management of own waste and waste received from others is illegal and covered by the regulation on the setting of the fee for waste. The interpellant has raised several issues, and I am very pleased that the Council of State has expressed in its response the desire to go deeper into some of these. The Environment Directorate is now tasked with assessing legislation to limit shipments of waste to treatment, based on the EU principle of subsidiarity. They shall also assess whether the granting of exclusive rights to own waste companies is an appropriate instrument for achieving waste policy objectives. A review of good and cost-effective treatment of household waste is important, both for the environment and for the willingness of citizens to contribute to sorting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1493	I would like to thank the representative Per Rune Henriksen for addressing the issue, which is very topical, and which we need to address. Now it is not new that sorted waste is shipped to Sweden – as it has been for a long time – nor necessarily a problem if it is really residues and the sorting has been good. What is the problem at the moment is whether the environmental directorate has changed this trend to send it to Sweden, and makes it more difficult for local authorities in Norway to set up comprehensive, circuit-based waste systems, where waste is sorted and used in a district heating plant, and, as in Oslo, where a large amount of investment has been made in a biogas plant – which is the new grant – produces biogas and, of course, uses the waste from there in agriculture. What we need is not to have a market. We must have a well-functioning market, but the well-functioning market must be geared to the objectives we set ourselves, not to be an obstacle. The aim of waste policy must always be to take care of waste as much as possible, so that the negative effects are minimised, and so that we make the best use of the positive aspects of the waste resource, and that we allow local authorities to continue to initiate and pursue this policy in the future without being hindered by a change in regulation. I think that might also be unintentional. No one asks questions about the principle of self-sufficiency. Nor is there anyone asking questions about the prohibition of cross-subsidies. The question is whether it has now become more difficult than it was in the past to maintain local systems. There is a wide variation in the application of EU legislation, which we are bound by through the EEA Agreement, in the various countries. And there is a great deal of autonomy for each country in terms of how to implement the legislation. The best example of this variation is our two neighbouring countries — Sweden, which has large overcapacity and no restrictions on imports or exports of waste, and Finland, which very much uses the principle of subsidiarity and prioritises the treatment of waste – in Finland – in a completely different way. Both parts are within the same EEA legislation. In this way, I think it is quite right that the Council of State now warns, namely that the Environment Directorate must review the situation, learn from the experience of the change in regulation that has now come, and come back with either proposals, if necessary, or assurances, whether it is necessary, how this can be achieved, so that we can achieve our objectives in waste policy, and so that we continue to allow local authorities to be ambitious in their own waste policy. For example, Oslo has, without any doubt, the most ambitious waste system in Europe on environmental issues and wants to go further. But then you have to be sure that you can start the necessary investments without any changes taking place below what you have started. I think this is an important discussion, and it is absolutely necessary for the Storting to take this into account. Its timing is also very correct, and I hope that the work to be done in the Environment Directorate can result in greater calm in what is as important an environmental industry as the waste industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1508	Earlier today, we have debated here in the Chamber the need for a more resource-efficient district heating network and we have discussed the sustainability indicators, which have been taken out of the national budget. It is always very satisfactory to see how the policy is linked, because now we are discussing waste policy, which is important for both of the previous two issues. After all, it should also be a sustainable development objective to have as much reuse as possible and good recycling of both materials and energy. I'm no claw at remembering the words of wisdom, and therefore I remember very well the few that I like best. One is: ‘There’s no such thing as waste, there’s only resources in the wrong place’. So, garbage doesn't exist — there's only resources on the way, and that's the community's resources. I want to thank the interpellant for raising important questions, because although very much recovered, the SSB's figures show that the amount of waste increases more than the consumption. And while the industry can point to a decline in waste, we are throwing more and more into households. In addition, incineration and non-recovery exclude the increase in household waste. This gives reason to ask yourself if today's systems work well enough. In a good circular economy, waste is a resource that is optimally exploited. This involves material recycling, but also re-use and good energy use. At the same time, it is important to reduce waste as much as possible and not depend on too large quantities of waste. The Greens think it must be easier for individuals to reduce consumption. At the same time, we need systems to streamline resource use in the lifecycle of products. The question from the inter-pellant suggests that the waste industry has a good framework — perhaps too good. Waste itself has become a commodity, disconnected from production and consumption. In Norway today, different materials, such as glass, paper and metal, are sorted through different sectoral agreements. And as has been mentioned several times today, waste has become a commodity, which is transported to places where there are cheap recovery systems. Household waste goes to Sweden, but also electronics goes to Africa and Asia, and other fractions go to Eastern Europe. For several of these, health, environmental and safety challenges have also been reported. The real question, therefore, may be why we do not impose stricter requirements on the amount of waste a product should be able to generate through its life cycle. My impression is that packaging, disappearances and ecological footprints from the products that are being developed and consumed are increasing – not being reduced. Food waste — or food surplus, as it is actually in our part of the world — is a resource that can be exploited, among other things. for biogas production, which is again best used for transport. Still, only 40 psts are sorted. of household waste, and very much goes to incineration. When food waste is incinerated, it is reduced to a heat resource, while in biogas production, the resource is exploited better. Therefore, in a cycle accounting, it may be better for food waste to be transported to Sweden and included in biogas production than to be incinerated in Norway. On the other hand, exports of waste out of the country will reduce the possibility of ourselves developing technology and profitability in recovering and exploiting resources. With our knowledge and competence, Norway should also promote smart recovery technologies. Then we have to have a framework that distinguishes whether food waste is incinerated or whether it goes to biogas production. Many suggest that there is a lack of a comprehensive plan of clear objectives and instruments for how to organise waste markets and how best to use resources. The waste industry has gone from being a municipal waste management task to becoming part of large international markets, and they have a natural interest in increasing waste volumes. This travels a set of completely new issues that lie outside this interpellation. I would therefore encourage the government to take the recordings further from this interpellation. It could be, for example, a separate notification of waste, reflecting the development of the waste industry with a comprehensive plan to reduce the amount of waste. Such a notification could also examine the framework conditions for promoting technologies that increase resource use in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1529	I thank you for a good debate on this, a debate that actually makes me a little optimistic – perhaps with the exception of the comments of the representative Grimstad, who seems to be immerse himself in a crystal clear perception that there is no problem in the world that does not cause it in the red-green government, and not a solution in the world that does not come from the sitting government. Then I would like to say that it sounds like there is a broad consensus that the objectives we have in waste policy are going to be leading, and that we recognise that there are problems in the interaction between the market and policies that need to be reviewed here. I agree with the views of the representative Elvesuen, in particular the clarification that there is no one who wants cross-subsidies. It's illegal, it's been illegal, and it still has to be illegal. But there are a number of factors that determine the correct price of the use of free capacity in an installation that is financed in one way. There is a leeway that is also within EU and EEA law, which, in my opinion, does not take the current regulation into account, and thus has the effect of changing the regulation as a policy change. I am pleased that the Council of State has asked for the investigations she says she has requested from the Environment Directorate. These may be important assessments. Like the previous speakers, I also see a clear need to discuss this in a broader form than in an interpellation or as a single matter in the Stortinget. I would like to see a comprehensive communication on waste policy where these issues can be addressed and, as the Green Party's representative also says, the opportunities that exist in the future and the experiences that have been made so far can be taken up. We got a waste strategy, which was one of the last of the red-green governments, but it is important to get a good follow-up to it and to see it in the context of climate policy, environmental policy and other issues – and also industrial policy in it, for that matter – in order to get a good interaction between our environmental policy objectives with the waste policy and other objectives that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1542	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant, and I would also like to thank the debate. Again, only to clarify: the Norwegian waste management system has as its primary purpose the management of waste, so as to minimise the damage and disadvantage for humans and the environment, and the cost of waste treatment to be borne by the person responsible for the waste. That is what are the important principles underlying Norwegian waste policy, and my task is to ensure framework conditions that deliver a good result for people and the environment. As the debate has shown, the waste area has changed and is constantly evolving. Waste has gone from being a source of pollution to being also a resource. I am therefore pleased that I have had this opportunity to present the main lines of government's waste policy, to which we have also asked for more investigations, and that in this way in the debate we have highlighted key issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1552	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1566	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1575	In the proposal we are now considering, the Ministry is proposing a legislative amendment to facilitate the implementation of expulsion decisions on non-residents sentenced to forced care or mental health protection. The proposal refers to the fact that today the implementation of an expulsion decision against a foreigner who has been convicted of a particular criminal reaction seems to be very complicated. The result is that more people stay longer in an institution than necessary. The Ministry has therefore examined whether and, where appropriate, what changes to the rules may encourage the rapid and overall good implementation of the broadcast. Deportation is conditional on due consideration being given to the foreigner, the Norwegian community and the society to which it is to be repatriated. At the Committee's examination, we have said that we are responding to proposals for legislative changes to facilitate the implementation of precisely these expulsion decisions relating to those foreigners. It is a prerequisite that expulsion is carried out with due regard for the foreigner and, as I said, the Norwegian community, and the society to which he is going to return. The majority of the Committee has taken note of the fact that the Ministry has also examined whether and, where appropriate, what changes to the rules may encourage the rapid and overall smooth execution of the broadcast. Furthermore, the Committee is pleased that amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act are proposed which provide detailed guidance on the handling of cases of expulsion of foreigners that have been convicted of a criminal specific reaction. Furthermore, we have noticed that a change is proposed in the criminal law dealing with the temporary cessation of the specific criminal law reaction resulting from the expulsion, and that we, as the committee and the magnificence, are agreed that the transfer to the continued perpetuation of the special reaction in another country is in practice very difficult to obtain. We have also noticed that a special basis is proposed in the Health Care Act, which allows for the transfer of health information to the alien authorities in connection with the treatment of precisely this type of expulsion case, as well as to the health and care services in the country to which the foreigner is assigned. Furthermore, we agree that it may be essential for the implementation of the expulsion decision and also allow for the best follow-up of the conviction that this is the case. There is reason to stress that an expulsion decision is an administrative response that implies an obligation to leave the country. At the same time, there is a permanent or temporary ban on subsequent entry into Norway. The majority of the Committee has also noted that the Ministry considers that it can contribute positively to the social inclusion of the large majority of law-abiding immigrants that there are opportunities to react to the relatively few who break the conditions for residence in Norway. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that access to expulsion may also have a general preventive effect and that the threat of expulsion itself can prevent disorder and crime. Furthermore, we are aware that expulsion is not a criminal reaction and that the grounds behind expulsion are not the same as those that apply in assessing the criminality issue. It is such that the Committee has also taken note of the Ministry's assessment that compulsory mental health protection and compulsory care cease either by judgment or by decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In contrast to the mandatory psychological health protection imposed by civil law, healthcare is not empowered to adopt an end to the compulsory protection established by the judgment. There is also reason to stress that the starting point of international criminal law is that punishment is to be enforced in the State in which the judgment is given, and that means that a sentence sentenced in Norway is to be served here. If the jurisdiction is a final foreigner, he shall normally leave the country after an end of residence. Rehabilitation and social conditions make it appropriate to transfer sentences for continued criminal execution in his or her home country or another country to which he or she relates. I therefore recommend the setting made by the Committee in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1603	In this case, the challenge is how we should respond to two forms of reaction against criminal foreigners who themselves have measures that are initially difficult to reconcile. Judgments that conclude, on the one hand, with expulsion decisions and, on the other hand, with compulsory care or with compulsory mental health protection are not easy to implement in a way that meets both challenges. The proposals in Prop. 34 L for 2014-2015 has been approved by a unanimous committee. It is an expression that an appropriate and acceptable way of weighing the different responses has been found. In many cases relating to the legal testing of residence permits for foreign nationals, we are part of an international agency that provides a framework for what we can and should do. As regards the transfer of the convictions to their country of origin, according to the Ministry, there are no international agreements that tell us how to resolve these cases. The Ministry points out in its proposal that in some cases, security psychiatry may become a place of collection for persons who are not legally resident in Norway but who have been sentenced to forced health protection following a criminal offence. Forced care or mandatory mental health protection is provided to protect society from the risk of recurrence of serious criminal offences. The current provisions of the Health Personnel Act prevent the exchange of information on displaced aliens who have been subject to forced treatment in Norway to their country of residence. A unanimous committee agrees with a legislative amendment that provides that the obligation of professional secrecy does not preclude the provision of the necessary information on the particular reaction of non-residents to the foreign authorities for the purposes of expulsion proceedings. In the case of expulsion, the authorities shall take into account the security of the jurisdiction of the society to which they are assigned. Some treatment periods in Norway will in most cases be required, according to the proposal, where reference is also made to the assumption that the European Court of Human Rights requires the authorities to have a certain overview of the need for health services and the possibilities for them to be covered in the country to which they are addressed. This would be best both for the expelled person to receive adequate health care in the home country and, of course, for the country of destination to have the necessary information about his criminal past and the potential for danger. It has not been difficult, on the part of the Centre Party, to endorse the legislative changes resulting from the proposal submitted. On the part of society, and very often also of the judiciary, it would be right to be able to implement an expulsion decision that has been taken but which today’s legislation makes it difficult to implement. Then there is at the same time a relationship that must be safeguarded on the part of both the court and the society to which he is to be assigned. Firstly, we have a responsibility to ensure that the necessary health care is not interrupted without it being able to be reinstated in the home country. Secondly, we are responsible for the fact that dangerous sentences are not sent out of the country to a place of residence that does not have the means to protect itself against the recurrence of dangerous crime. I therefore stress the Committee's comment that the government is asked to follow closely the developments following the amendment, with a view to speeding up legislative correction if there were to be unreasonable consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1622	I refer you to the excellent statement by the rapporteur on the matter. I would also like to note that there is a broad consensus on the matter as such. The left and SV have mentioned a proposal from the minority. I'm addressing the proposal on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1627	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1630	I will be very brief and thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for its unanimous support for the government's proposal. This, as well as the rapporteur of the case, intends to clear up a code that has made it disproportionately difficult to send out persons who have been convicted of a specific criminal law reaction. With this code, this will be easier. It is also important to stress that the purpose of the temporary cessation of the special reaction is that one should have the possibility to resume the special reaction if he comes back. Then, of course, it should be easier to have agreements with different countries on the return of persons who are also sentenced to a specific criminal reaction. It turns out to be quite demanding in practice. Therefore, this will be an important tool to ensure that we have a real opportunity to send out also special sentencing judges. With regard to the last proposal made by the representative of Skkelstad, there are no changes to the legal aid offer in the proposal by the government, and it is simply because the foreign matter for him was then dealt with in accordance with the ordinary law of the legal aid arrangements in place there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1644	The changes in the laws we are now implementing mean that convictions can be released before time and before processing is completed. Some hearing bodies have been critical of this and believe that the best solution would be to transfer, in agreement with the country of destination, to which the Council of State was committed. I understand that the Department basically supports this view and that such agreements are being worked out with several EEA countries. Is the problem related to the conclusion of this type of agreement linked to the capacity and progress of the Norwegian side, or is there scepticism about concluding this type of return agreement in the recipient countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1651	I'm afraid it's the last thing that makes the most demanding. As the representative was inside, we already have agreements with some countries, and it is still working to get it done. However, it is difficult to put into practice. Therefore, the possibility now offered by this amendment is, in fact, a chance to return people who have been convicted of a special reaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1658	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1674	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to six lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1681	In this proposition, the Ministry proposes to lower the penalty requirement in point (h) of the first paragraph of Section 17 from ‘prison sentence for 10 years or more’ to ‘prison sentence for five years or more’. In this case, there is evidence that there are several very serious criminal offences which have a criminal sentence of between five and ten years in prison but which, under current legislation, cannot provide a basis for assessing whether entry or stay should be refused. Only so we have an image of what this is actually about: examples of criminal offences that are not covered by today’s provision but will be covered by the provision currently proposed are: call, recruitment and training for acts of terrorism, etc. in a terrorist organisation foreclosure human trafficking physical abuse in close relationships sexual harassment sexual intercourse with children between 14 and 16 years of age That's how I could keep ramming up – but these are the main areas. In the view of the Ministry, these matters and other matters with a similar penalty framework should be covered by point (h) of the first paragraph of Section 17 of the Foreign Act. That's the proposition we've been dealing with, to which a unanimous committee has agreed. The Committee has noted that the change involves a lower penalty requirement in order to expel a non-resident on the basis that he has been penalised for serious matters abroad, regardless of the time lag of the relationship. We are aware that the purpose of the Foreign Affairs Act in Section 1, first paragraph, states that: ‘The law shall provide the basis for the regulation and control of immigration and the residence of non-residents in the Kingdom, in accordance with Norwegian immigration policy and national obligations.’;» It is a fundamental part of immigration regulation to be able to keep outside the borders of the country persons who are undesirable here because of crime or certain other circumstances. An expulsion decision imposes an obligation to leave the kingdom and may be enforced by coercion. In contrast to a decision on expulsion, contrary to Chapter 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act, a decision on expulsion does not impose a ban on future entry. According to Section 17, first paragraph, point (h) of the Foreign Act, a foreigner may be expelled from the State: ‘when the foreigner is punished or subjected to a special reaction to a condition which under Norwegian law may result in a prison sentence for 10 years or more’. The Committee has noted that this is the provision proposed by the government to change, and that the government proposes in the proposal to lower the penalty requirement in Section 17, as I have mentioned earlier, from the ‘prison sentence for ten years or more’ to ‘prison sentence for five years or more’. There are several very serious, criminal cases that have a criminal record of between five and ten years of imprisonment, which I have mentioned at the outset. Furthermore, the Committee sees that these assessments made by the government and the ministry are also supported by the Police Directorate, the Police Security Service and the National Attorney that a reduction in the requirement for a criminal penalty framework could also have a certain preventive effect. Furthermore, the government has also underlined that there is no automatic means of taking a decision on expulsion, even if the objective basis for doing so is present. It must be an individual treatment. The position of the Committee is unanimous. This does not promote other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1736	The Central Party supports the proposal to lower the penalty requirement from 10 to 5 years in order to expel a non-resident when he has been punished for serious offences abroad. Criminal matters that we experience as very serious, such as: abuse in close relationships, incitement and recruitment to acts of terrorism, or trafficking in human beings, to name a few, has criminal limits in Norway which do not justify refusal of entry or residence in the country per day. This is not reasonable and a reduction in the requirement for a criminal framework could have a criminal prevention effect. The Ministry and the Committee stress that the lower penalties proposed are a rule of chance. Refusal of entry or stay shall be subject to an individual assessment. Heavy-weight reasons for staying in the country may lead to the foreigner not being expelled, even if there is a legal basis for doing so. It is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal for lower penalties in the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act on the possibility of expulsion from abroad due to penalties. SV has its own comment where they point out that the right to apply for asylum cannot be affected by the amendment here. I believe that they are right, of course, but the right to asylum is not a matter directly affected by whether we set the framework for the possibility of a ten- or five-year ban. We have underlined that the provision on the right of expulsion due to punishment abroad is a cant determination. An individual assessment shall be carried out by the Norwegian authorities and the right of asylum shall be respected through the individual assessment. Through the EEA Agreement, we have had open borders with EU citizens. There are jobseekers who represent the absolute majority of immigrants, but open borders have also made it attractive to people with less honest intentions. Norway needs a foreign law that gives us the opportunity to stop criminals at the border. The tightening up that we are doing today through today's legal adjustment gives governments a little better response possibilities. That's why the law change is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1765	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1772	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. We have considered proposals for a new law on missing persons and proposals for changes to the inheritance law that involve the liquidation of the State's right to inheritance, so that in cases where there are no heirs after the deceased, the property is to be allocated to voluntary activities for the benefit of children and young people. With regard to the amendment of the law on missing persons, a unanimous committee is in favour of the bill. Since the law was passed in 1961, there have been major changes in society. Travel activity is higher, while new technology allows you to communicate with each other in a much easier way than before. The flood disaster in Southeast Asia in 2004 showed that the current law on missing persons was mature for revision. The Shifting Law Committee, set up in 2005, was clear in its feedback that the 1961 rules should be amended in line with the current proposed legislation. With regard to the removal of the right of inheritance of the State for the benefit of voluntary activities, there is a shared committee. I expect the Labour Party to explain its position on this matter. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party support the government's proposal to abolish the State's right of inheritance in favour of voluntary activities for children and young people. The proposal has been widely consulted, and none of the hearing bodies opposed this change. Voluntary organisations and voluntary efforts have played an important role in the construction of Norwegian society, and the aim is broad support and support for the people. Activities of non-governmental organisations are among the main recreational activities of children and young people. The mechanism for allocating the funds outlined in the proposal also ensures a small bureaucratic organisation of the funds, so that the funds go as far as possible for the purpose. For teams and associations engaged in activities for children and young people, these means are likely to be used well. «Many streams of young people give a big to», is what is called, and I am pleased that the government, in addition to investing in measures for children and young people in other areas, is pleased that the country's heritage goes for this good purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1798	The system we have today with masterless inheritance, is good, unbureaucratic and benefits everyone. The heirloove selection, which was named at kgl. Resolution of 15 April 2011, was mandated to assess the rules on the country’s inheritance rights. The selection took place, among others: asked to look at the question of whether a scheme should be put in place to ensure that funds from fallen inheritance benefit voluntary organisations. In the NOU on new inheritance law, the Inheritance Selection concluded that they would not propose changes to the current state inheritance law. One argument was that the scheme would be cost-intensive and bureaucratic, and it was also shown that the amount involved per year was relatively small. Nevertheless, it is not the practical challenges of the proposal that the Workers' Party is opposed to the changes in the archova, but the principle and more challenging by finding a common purpose that could take care of the needs of the heir. If an orphanage is to go to voluntary organisations, it cannot ignore the fact that it may conflict with the heir's wishes. For example, if an heir If our human ethicists are alive, he would probably want the inheritance to go to, for example. Christian youth work, or vice versa — an heir to our religion, would undoubtedly want the inheritance to go to a voluntary organization working for or with a humanistic view of life. I also want to refer to the Arvelov selection's argument against such an arrangement, and quote from the proposition on page 8 under item. 2.2: «Previous proposals have linked the Fund to the aims of children and young people. This might be in line with the wishes of most heirs in the past, but today it may as well be a presumption that the funds should be used to help the elderly. The heirates in question will be in very different situations of life. It is hardly possible to find purposes for which everyone would be satisfied.» The Labour Party believes it is very important to strengthen the voluntary organisations, and we would like to continue with the Cultural Promise. We are still in our budget to strengthen the promises of culture and voluntary organisations, as we did for 2015. We believe that changing archova so that masterless inheritance is to be distributed to voluntary organizations, is in principle crazy, on the basis that it could be contrary to the wishes of the heir, and will therefore go against proposal B to the law of changes in the archova. Rather, we want to encourage the government to increase the value of the cultural budget and strengthen the voluntary organisations there. The Labour Party supports proposal A to the law on missing persons, I refer here only to the joint committee comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1816	It's a joy, what's being presented that masterless inheritance is now to go to non-governmental organisations. This was also part of the agreement that the four cooperation parties signed – an important point there – that I believe, among other things. has been very important to the Christian People's Party, but it is also something that the Party of Advancement, Right and Left have supported. It is therefore gratifying to note that the Central Party in the Committee also supports this matter. Several of us have previously suggested this in different settings, but have been voted down under the former government, which ran for eight years. It is gratifying to see that what has previously disappeared into the main, as some might call the State budget, will now be earmarked for voluntary work for children and young people and will be handled by the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council, LNU, an organisation that has extensive experience in allocating support to different types of children’s and youth organisations, and which does so in an excellent way. So the Progress Party is very happy that today we have got this matter so quickly from the government, and that we now get the necessary legislative changes in place. But the reason why I drew myself, is really the reason of the Workers' Party to say no. I record that the Workers' Party refers to the fact that in its alternative state budget they would grant more money for culture and voluntary work than the government, but the consequences of today's vote are that cultural life, voluntary work, will be worth between 10 and 20 million. kr less than the majority voting for today. That's the consequence of that voting. Then it's a little strange to use the argument that the system of distribution of funds by LNU will be a cost-intensive and bureaucratic system. If you think so, then you believe that the system of all the millions you already allocate to voluntary work before this amendment, for example. LNU, is bureaucratic and cost-intensive. Then I wonder: how have you really thought that this kind of money should be allocated to voluntary work? Because I guess it's no less costly or less bureaucratic to distribute a few hundred million than to distribute 10 to 20 million. kr. It's the same system that's going to do it. But what really bothered me the most was the argument that it would be very special that you could risk having a masterless inheritance used for something that the one who has gone away, didn't want. It could be a very exciting debate if we also took it in the context of the tax system. Because there is quite a lot of what the state takes of my tax money that is used for something I don't agree with. But that's not what I get for, necessarily, unless I go into politics. Then I might get a little bit of insight, and that's why I went into the politics. There's a lot of money you take in, I guess that's something like 700-800 billion. kr every year that the government collects taxes and taxes without asking the people if it's okay that we use it for that purpose or that purpose. So that debate and that argument is really quite festive, as I see it, that it could be 'in conflict with the wishes of heirs', as it says in the remarks. So it's like in Norway that we take considerable money from a lot of people and use it for the purposes that the majority of the population and the majority in municipalities and county councils think are right. That's how you do it the same way in this case. What's most enjoyable about the case is that now will be between 10 and 20 million. can go to increased work for non-governmental organisations for children and young people every year. That's why this is a joyous thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1831	Let me first link some words to the unanimity. We are all pleased that the errors and deficiencies that were pointed out after the tragic disaster of Christmas 2004 are now being corrected. I think that can help relatives not only in their grief process, but also financially and legally – so that bit is okay. Like the previous speaker, I would like to link some comments to the comments from the Labour Party on this matter. I'll quote: «These members would point out that an heir who, for example, has our humaneists would undoubtedly want inheritance to go to Christian youth work, or, contrary to the fact that an heir who has our religious, would dubiously want inheritance to go to the work of a voluntary organization for a humane or atheistic view of life.» For me, this issue is about the state's inheritance rights going to non-governmental organisations, and about the view of society – and my view of society is that civil society, non-governmental organisations, add something of value to society as a whole. A society that is a strong civil society is a better society than a society that is a weak civil society. Being part of the state and facilitating the flourishing of non-governmental organisations, and not least child and youth work, is an important value in itself, and therefore I am pleased with this change, where a very wide majority actually wants masterless inheritance to go to non-governmental organisations. That LNU should manage the scheme, I think is a good thing. They shall be awarded to children’s and youth organisations. I could also perhaps have seen that one could choose the model with a separate fund that had been built up over time, and then with a return as one had got a larger structure and a greater long-termity in the fund. I think that might have been good, but I also think this solution is good. That's why I'm reacting to the way it's argued, and against that argument, one might also say that some heirs would have reacted to how the inheritance is used by the state today, because there are some things that one does not automatically say. What we're doing here is something that has been very much agreed on, that's something that has been wanted by the volunteer organizations, and there are people who are very happy that it's being voted through today. It's a day of joy because it's helping to strengthen civil society, and it's helping to strengthen child and youth work in this country, and it's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1845	Let me first thank the committee and the rapporteur for a good piece of work. I can join the brother of the post of the case rapporteur and the previous speakers, with the exception of Mr. Wagslid's post. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal for the law on missing persons and that a majority of the committee also supports the proposal for the law on amendments to the succession law on the winding-up of the State's succession for the benefit of voluntary activities. The law in force dates back to 1961. Since then, there have been quite considerable changes in society, and there are several reasons why the 1961 law on missing persons is now ripe for revision. Travel activity in the population has increased. New technology makes us communicate today in a completely different way from what we did before, and our ability to identify the dead has also improved significantly. Major natural disasters, such as: The representative of Ropstad was involved and terrorist attacks have also contributed to increased attention to the legislation on missing persons and illustrated the need for audit. The proposal for a new law on missing persons is adapted to the time we live in. In the bill, the time limit for a person to be considered dead is shortened. The time-limits will now be one year or five years. The 10-year period shall be removed. Another important change is that relatives will now release the burden of suing the missing person for the decision of the court. Otherwise, the proposal for the new law contains rules on the management of the assets of a missing person, rules on how to proceed to determine whether a person should be counted as dead, rules on the effects of such a decision and rules on the return of the person’s assets if the person is subsequently settled. With regard to the proposal for the winding-up of the country's inheritance rights, which has contributed to the greatest discussion today, there has been a strong desire of non-governmental organisations to amend these rules over time. There has been a strong political desire from large parts of this room, it also shows the position, and it is part of the government statement. What is now being proposed is to have a simple model for the distribution of funds through LNU. I note that in its time the Committee on Arvelov said that they were skeptical of a system, which was also in the hands of the representative, who would lead to a large degree of administration, because the total amount of money this is talking about is relatively low from year to year. That is exactly why it is a great advantage that LNU should do this job. Then you do not build a new bureaucracy. This does not create new difficulties, but ensures that an umbrella organisation with a long and good tradition of allocating public funds will also distribute these funds. I also think the discussion about the use of the funds by heirloors is a bit artificial. I would like to stress that all, including those who do not have heirs, can have their assets through the use of will. If one is concerned that one’s assets and values should go for specific purposes, creating a will is something that everyone can do. Then you want to have control of what the funds are used for. Then one might say a little superficially that when the state receives inheritance, atheists will also pay for the financing of religious organizations by means of religious organizations getting funds from the state. There will also be pacifists who would never fund anything in a defence, who contribute their share into the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1860	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1863	I would also like to thank the case manager for a good job. I also believe that LNU is fine at handling this in a good way, and I said in my post that it is not essentially the practical challenges that make us vote against the proposal. I would like to associate a few comments with this article with Ulf Leirstein. It's an interesting consideration we're saying -- that until now, the money has disappeared into ‘nothing’. It might say a little bit about the vision that the representative has in his community. I think there's a significant difference between whether the funds go to everyone, or whether they go to volunteer organizations that have a value point. So I also mean that it's special to think that today's Labour Party is going to go from 10 to 20 million. kr less for culture. The working party proposed 600 million. kr more to voluntary organisations in their alternative government budget. I would have liked that to have been passed on. It would be a happy day. So I also notice that there is a slightly different view of tax. There is not unknown in this room. We're probably not going to get any of that either, but I think it's a little special to compare inheritance and tax. In any case, I believe that the promises of voluntary organisations and culture should be strengthened. It should be done through the cultural budget. It has been said very much from many people about the value of cultural life and the role of voluntary organisations. That is what I hope to right and see in the debate on the cultural budget for next year, where the strengthening of these organisations really belongs to home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1874	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1888	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three lines be given, with replies from a member of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1895	First, I would like to say that there is an overall committee that joins the amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act § 222a, first paragraph, which relates to a restraining order. In its observations, the Committee stresses that the purpose of the proposal is to clarify in the legislative text that the prohibition of visits may be imposed in order to protect individuals, but also the circulation of individuals who may be at risk. The Committee agrees that this is a legislative act of the law already in force and that, in the context of a football or other sporting event, the prosecution authority may prohibit an individual or groups of persons from staying at and in the immediate vicinity of a stadium, at specified points of interest or in a municipality during the days of a particular club. This is based on the experience of many sporting events around the world, where individuals and groups use the opportunity to engage in violence instead of being involved in the sporting event itself, and thus expose the audience – children, young people and the elderly – to great danger. We have seen that in several countries human lives have been lost and many hundreds have been injured because one has not been able to stop those kinds of acts and riots. These are measures that can be taken if one suspects that adverse episodes that could put others at risk may occur. However, there must be a risk of violence as part of a mutual settlement between groups of individuals, or the use of violent means. It is not that a person can be denied a stay here in Oslo because it poses a danger to everyone who is here, that he is going to a sports event. There must be specific groups and locations and linked to specific conditions. It is important that this is not taken too long. But it is very important that both the police and, not least, those who arrange, follow closely when there are football matches or ice hockey matches or what they should be, and that good measures are put in place to protect the audience and possibly those who are at the sports arena. We've seen in recent years that there have been groups of people who support a particular team, and who, under the cover of this, have as their object the use of violence to injure groups that support the second team, as part of a restitution. Therefore, it is important that this paragraph is now properly enforced. Otherwise, the Committee will refer to Prop. 43 L, which is adequate for the Committee's view in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1910	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1925	The Committee has examined proposals for amendments to the Law on Compensation for Damage and the Law on Compensation for Victims. I am very pleased that it is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal for this legislative amendment promoted by the government. In this proposition, the Ministry proposes that life expectancy forecasts of the injured party likely to be returned to the event of liability should no longer be able to justify the future payment of men’s compensation. Furthermore, it is proposed that such predictions should not be taken into account in the measurement of men’s compensation under the Damage Compensation Act §3-2. The proposal shall apply mutatis mutandis to the measurement of men’s compensation under the Act on the Compensation of Victims of Violence, Section 5. This is a matter that the representatives of the Right also raised in 2010, but they did not get a majority in the Stortinget proceedings. The Patient Compensation Scheme was established in due time to ensure that patients who have suffered injury after failure of the healthcare system are properly compensated. Substitution is a compensation for loss of life, and the general rule is that the patient receives a one-off payment. On the basis of several media reviews showing that Norwegian patients’ compensation had in some cases adopted forward-looking payments of men’s allowances because the patient had a short life expectancy again, three of the Right’s representatives in 2009 promoted a proposal that men’s compensation should initially be set at a one-off sum. That proposal was then only supported by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The law was not clear enough, and it was considered very unreasonable that the severity of the damage was used as an argument for shortening the amount of men's compensation. With the amendment that is now available to the laws, the government has taken responsibility for correcting what was perceived as an unfairness. The legislator now takes responsibility, and I am glad that there will be a unanimous decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1945	This is a bill that sounds very technical. The purpose is, therefore, that predictions of the shortened life of the injured party who can be returned to the event of liability should no longer be able to justify the future payment of men’s compensation. But what is really going on is – as the rapporteur pointed out – that if, for example: a hospital commits a loss that leads to a shortening of the patient's life, the current rule regime will result in a risk of a future payment, i.e. that the injured person, who gets his life shortened by the hospital's mistreatment, will receive far, far less compensation than if the damage had not happened. So if the damage hadn't happened, it wouldn't have been a shorter life span for him. What has appeared to be so unreasonable, namely that the person who causes the damage is to ‘remove cheaper’ because the damage is so dramatic that life span is shortened, is now changed by this bill. I am very pleased that there has been a significant political movement since 2010, and that this bill is now being adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1952	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 12 and 13 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1981	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e1995	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2002	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. It is very gratifying that we can promote a unanimous attitude for Stortinget. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Klinge and Mr Heidi Greni, from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, for promoting this proposal. On Thursday 3 April 2014, the Stortinget decided to enter in order to remove the limitation period for offences against the murder, rape and child abuse provisions of the Criminal Code, on a proposal from the Christian People's Party. The reason for this change was that one could investigate and prosecute perpetrators who have committed serious criminal acts such as killing, rape and assault against children, and that they should not feel secure that they could not be held responsible for their actions because of the limitation period. Cases that are already outdated will not be covered, because the Constitution prohibits the giving of laws retroactively. It is important to stress that the Committee is committed to the maintenance of the retirement institution and that it will continue to apply to the vast majority of criminal offences committed in that country. When the committee now wants to amend the first paragraph of Section 148 of the Penal Code, we believe that this should have been included as early as 2014, when the Stortinget amended the penal code. The proposers point out in their proposal that acts covered by the arson paragraph, acts in which human lives are lost, and where one in addition has considerable material costs, can be complicated and demanding to investigate. They also point out that there may be different motives that may be behind, such as: economic motives and, where appropriate, covering other criminal acts already committed, such as killing. There will now be no final limit to when one can be tried for such serious crimes. This means that if new evidence emerges in a case or new methods of assessing evidence, a new criminal procedure may be initiated. I would also like to refer to the Government's response to the draft representative, Document 8:4 L, of 7 January 2015. The Committee agrees with the proposers that this is a natural follow-up to previous decisions of the Stortinget. I therefore recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2028	Today, we are adopting a necessary and fair change in our penal code. There is good reason to thank the proposers who have brought the matter to Stortinget. Our clear starting point is that criminal cases in Norway must have their end at some point. It's a little bit about the need to put a dot, both for society, for the victim and for the perpetrator. But there are some actions that you just can't set a dot for. There are some actions that you just can't put in the drawer and get done with. That is why we are voting today to remove the limitation period for annihilation fires. After years of talking about removing limitation periods, it finally took a little time to do that work, and we recently decided to remove the limitation period for killing, for rape and for incest. It's very reasonable, in our opinion, to add arson to that list. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the legislation is not too fragmented and inconsistent, and that is why we want to review all the limitation periods for penalties with death as a result. It is very gratifying that the Storting can give its support to it today. What we know is that the change that we are adopting today has a slightly special significance for the survivors of a case that we all know well, namely the Scandinavian Star case. It's good to know that what we're doing today has the meaning that we might once in the future be able to hold a perpetrator responsible. At the same time, it is also important to stress that this change is made on a principle basis, with a fundamental justification. It will also have an impact on many other murder fires that are not yet out of date. It makes sense to do this from a justice point of view, but it also makes sense for purely practical reasons. The reason is that technology has become so much better today that it's much easier to figure out what the truth actually is. Then there is no good reason to let a stiff leg and A4-like rule and time limit determine whether or not a guilty perpetrator should go free from what he has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2041	If you say that there is a weakness in this matter that is now being dealt with, it should have been dealt with last year. Then Stortinget took hold of matters of the most serious nature. And probably, in the light of the postwar, you should have made the change you're making today, at that time. You didn't, but now you're at the point of gripping, and that's the most important thing. I want to join those who have given tribute to the proposers because they have seen it and proposed it, and have now got a big deal with them. As the previous speaker pointed out, one of the main reasons for doing this is the ‘Scandinavian Star’ case. I want from this pulpit to express honor and respect for the way the indulgence group has worked against Stortinget. It's probably been tough, and it's certainly been hard to understand what you've been through after a disaster. Today, I would say that the effort they have made ends with a change of law that allows those who stood behind that time to be punished and a beautiful day will be able to face the punishment for the action they actually committed. Like others from the pulpit, there are some things that we shouldn't stop looking for perpetrators. Those who suffer the worst, the weakest of the weak, must be able to expect that a beautiful day will help the perpetrators to cope with what they have done. In such a case, the Court of Justice will certainly take it into account in the criminal investigation, but too many relatives are concerned with finding out what happened, the motive for it, and not least the course of events in order to get a conclusion – get answers to the questions that have been raised when one has had to go through such a situation. I don't think it's possible to understand it for the rest of us, but that the need is there, is raised above any doubt. In that way, Stortinget is doing a good job today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2050	It has not been long since the Stortinge treated and adopted the proposal of the Christian People's Party to repeal the rules of limitation on killing and sexual assault. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it should be a high threshold to repeal the rules on the limitation of criminal offences. The proposal under consideration today differs to some extent from the proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party, but the outcome of the action is nevertheless the same, namely killing. Drapp is a very serious crime, and the grounds behind the rules of custody are of less importance in this respect. There are several provisions in the penal code that punish acts of death, such as punishment and bodily damage. These are very serious acts which in some areas can be equated with arson, but such cases are still not adopted obsoletely today. The Christian People's Party believes that it is right and important to consider whether these rules should also be exempted from the limitation period. It is therefore positive that a Joint Committee is in favour of a review of the rules on the limitation of intentional acts resulting in death. It is important for example: to ensure a consistent legal framework. The rules of limitation restrict the possibility of criminal proceedings and, as a result, of the conviction of the offender. The justification for the maintenance of the rules of limitation in the event of killing, and in this case of arson, becomes minor in this respect. Enforcement of the law in such cases is more important both for individuals and for society in general than the retention of the limitation period. The amendment of the rules on limitation does not alter the conditions of criminality. This means that even if there is a long delay after the incident, the legal certainty of the individual will be equally strong, and the risk of murder will not increase. Part of the justification for the limitation rules is that they should ensure that the prosecution authority investigates criminal offences within reasonable limits, both in the interests of the victim and society in general. Today, we are deciding to remove the limitation period for annihilation fire, i.e. a criminal offence that has had fatal outcomes. Such serious criminal offences shall be the priority of the prosecution authority, irrespective of the rules on limitation. This is therefore in favour of abolishing the rules on the limitation of the use of arson. Another argument for maintaining the rules on limitation is that the need for penalties decreases over the years. If the guilty person has not committed new offences, the need to punish the offender will be reduced and if the offender has committed new criminal offences, he may be punished for them. This consideration may apply in several cases, but the need for punishment will not necessarily diminish over the years in the case of such serious acts as for example. Murder fire. It may be disproportionate, both for the culprit and his family, if the culprit is punished many years after the offence has been committed, but by killing this argument cannot be given the same weight. If the offender is to be able to put the matter behind him, it will be vital for many people to be held responsible for their actions. It makes this an important day for many and can help people who would have escaped the most serious crimes now be held responsible for their actions, even after a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2069	For me as the proposer, it is very gratifying that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is tabling a unanimous position on this matter to end the limitation period for arson. The legislative changes will contribute to the harmonisation of parental rules linked to the most serious crime. No person who has committed or contributed to such criminal acts shall feel secure that they are not taken. Penalty Felova § 148, also called the murder fire paragraph, makes it criminal to kill by means of, among other things. fire extinguisher. The sentence period is 21 years in prison, and the high sentence frame underlines the seriousness of the offence. At regular intervals, we hear about applying fires in the news, and it is reported about individuals or families as being related to the actions. In 2014, the Storting eliminates the limitation period for some serious types of crime. Kill was among them. In the light of that amendment of the law, it is unfortunate if not murderous fires are also included. The central party's approach in this matter is that a killing is a killing, and that killing should be treated equally, of course, with a limit to the indiscriminate cases. The question the Storting must ask is, if someone shoots another person or stabs him with a knife, so that he dies, should have other parental rules than if the person had lit up a house where he had to understand that it happened to people. No, I mean, the exact same parenting rules are going to apply. I am therefore pleased that the Storting is taking action when it concerns this issue, and is correcting the legal inequality that exists today. The violation of the penal code § 148 is often demanding to investigate. But the consequences of the actions are very large. In such fires, many innocent human lives can be lost, and in addition, great material damage occurs. In some cases, there may also be strong forces that counteract the investigation and have a great interest in the fact that the relationship is not being resolved. Removing the parental control allows the police to continue the investigation or to resume the investigation if new information or new evidence is received. This may also happen very long after the operation has taken place. The legislative amendment proposal is not related to individual matters. Nevertheless, there is one event that is easy to relate to the law change we are going to make. What I'm thinking about is the tragedy of Scandinavian Star, which is an illustrative example. 159 lives were lost almost 25 years ago, and the case is still under investigation. Without a change in law, the relationship will expire on 7 April this year, and any perpetrators will not be able to be held liable in accordance with criminal law. As one of two proposers who submitted this proposal for a representative to end the limitation period for arson fires already in the autumn of 2014, I am naturally very busy with the amendment of the law being signed and completed by the government before 7 April. I have received insurance from members of the government party that this is going to work out, and I therefore assume that it does. It is not the ‘Scandinavian Star’ disaster and the fact that he happened almost 25 years ago, which is the reason for the proposed legislative change. In any case of arson, regardless of the extent, it is right to suspend the limitation period. But it would be unthinkable if collapse and government were not to be able to make the changes in the law valid in time for such a big case, which is just a murder fire, to become obsolete. This case shows how difficult things are here. Burn-out houses, boats and – for that matter – cars, make on-site searches necessary, but there may also be other tracks that can lead to the perpetrator. It goes without saying that this work is both time- and resource-consuming. As lawmakers, we are now giving the police the opportunity to continue their search for perpetrators, and no one should feel confident that they will not be taken for the worst. It is important to stress that even if we remove the parental rules, the same strict evidence requirements will apply in court proceedings. Would you like to apply this change to the expiry date? I can see that a whole bunch of this stuff is busy. Removing the limitation period should and must be limited to the most serious cases. For most types of crime, it would be necessary to put a dot, but the kind of crime we're talking about here is in a special position, which is also underlined by the penal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2086	The proposers and the vote have a fundamental starting point, but there is no doubt that the decision taken today will mean too many, as part of the speakers have also been. I'll be very short. I would like to thank the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of This is a kind of problem that the Storting has addressed recently, and where limitation in matters of murder, rape and sexual intercourse with children under 14 years of age and 16 years of age was exempted from the parental provisions. I also think it is a fundamental discussion that the Storting has now taken, relating to which crimes should be exempted from limitation. That is why I am particularly pleased that the Storting today, in addition to deciding that the burning of murder is exempted from oblivion, also asks the government to come back with an overall assessment of the other cases where there is a penalty in which there is a death penalty. I think it might make sense now in the wake of the changes that the Storting has adopted and the change that the Storting now decides that we will have an overall review of what remains, so that a person gets a fundamental demarcation in view of the criminal acts that one believes should be exempt from limitation. In all, I am very pleased with the conclusion of a unanimous big deal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2097	The rules of criminal law relate to the right to bring an action before the courts and to the fact that some people in criminal law may be held responsible for acts they have committed. As the proposer, of course, I am very pleased that the Stortinge decides today to remove the limitation period also in the case of arson cases. The amendment will relate to new cases as well as the events that have occurred before but that are not obsolete. Those who carry out actions that result in violent human suffering and the loss of human life should not feel confident that they are not held responsible for this. Nor should it be that if someone tries to destroy evidence, hide traces and make the investigation difficult, you can feel confident that you will not be held responsible for the action only 25 years have passed. Many of us still remember the incident when 159 people died in the fire on board "Scandinavian Star". Families were hit hard, communities were hit hard. Survivors and survivors have since then done a good job of getting answers to what was really happening, an engagement that has led the police today to investigate some parts of the incident. On April 7th this year, the event would have expired, if the Storting hadn't changed the rules. In the light of this deeply tragic event, you can see the need for legislative change. This is one of many events – events that are not solved, and how many are left with more questions than answers. Now the police are given the opportunity to continue working on these matters, and if there is any new information, these can be followed up and possibly lead to some being held responsible for the actions. Hopefully, most of the cases the police are investigating will be resolved long before 25 years have passed, but for those affected in the few individual cases that are not, this is a joyous day. Removing the rules of limitation is not something that can or should be done in all kinds of cases. But since last year's Storting decided by overwhelming majority to remove the limitation period for some types of serious crime such as killing, incest, etc., there are no longer compelling arguments to avoid removing the limitation period in Section 148 of the Penal Code. There are arguments both for and against lifting limitation periods, but there is no doubt that as the years go by it becomes more difficult to investigate. However, it is not crucial as long as this could lead to some being held responsible for their criminal offences and having to take their punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2116	The Judicial Committee has put forward a unanimous position to end the limitation period in criminal matters relating to arson. The left will inform us that we will vote against that proposal today, as we did when the Stortinget dealt with the limitation period in Section 192, first paragraph, and Sections 196 and 233. The limitation of criminal offences is a fundamental principle in our liberal state of law. We have, in fact, lifted the limitation period for some criminal acts, but we must guard against doing what the majority intends to do today, namely to lower the threshold even more to eliminate the limitation period for other criminal acts. Evidence is weakened over time, and the risk of errors and murders of the judiciary is increasing. Just because the requirement of proof must be as strict after a long period of time, it is difficult to imagine that it would be appropriate to commit criminal proceedings more than 25 years after a serious act has been carried out. The need for punishment in society and among the closest relatives decreases as time passes. Many offended people will need to put the matter behind them. The penalty will also have little or no effect on the culprit who may be held responsible for a relationship far back in time as she or he approaches the end of a long life — perhaps 50 years later. It's also hard to imagine cases where a person suddenly gets enough evidence to judge someone. On the other hand, there are examples of cases in which an offender has stood up and admitted after a very long time, precisely because the limitation period exists. We will dare to claim that there is no offended person who has been sorry that this happened, or as the Association of Lawyers wrote in a hearing in a similar case in Stortinget: ‘Of course, you can imagine cases where a perpetrator admits a killing after a long time, and there is no doubt that the confession is correct. In any event, the perpetrator's confession will have an effect on the survivors, and the absence of criminal liability may increase the possibility of such a confession, thereby clarifying the case to the survivors.» Overall, it is crucial for the Left that counter-criminals increase as time goes by, and that the danger of hitting innocents cannot overshadow any criminal need in such cases. When our current penal code of 1902 was passed, the then criminal law commission stated: "A legal investigation after perhaps half an century's course would itself, by reason of the greatest crime, be a deed without real profit, almost fit to bring sorrow and mischief upon the innocent as guilty." Despite the fact that it has been a long time since 1902, this is an assessment that stands out quite well today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2153	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2160	The representative proposal is promoted by the Left and describes a solution to a problem for many, and probably for an increasing number of traders, by misleading companies into contracts they do not need. The Committee shares the situation description and the intention of the proposers. We think it is gratifying that the government has already started work in cooperation with business organisations to solve this particular problem. An overall committee has therefore asked the government to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner on this matter in the light of the discussions and the process that has now begun with business organisations. There is also a proposal from the Left in the case, which addresses the original proposal in the case. From the Right and the Advance Party, I signal that we are not going to support this proposal, but are voting for the Committee's position because we believe that both intention and approach are being resolved in the ongoing work of the government – which is coming back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2169	I don't need to elaborate on this. I agree with the case rapporteur, and he has done a good job in this matter. I can only say from experience that I have reported such catalogue sharks myself. When it had been a while, I was called in. Then I was witnessing 350 or something like that – so this is a big problem, there is no doubt about it. As far as the process is concerned, the Minister of Justice — if he takes the floor — may be able to explain whether this meeting has been held, if necessary when it is to be held, and whether there has been anything that he can signal to the European Parliament at this stage. If not, we recommend that the Labour Party should not vote in favour of the Left's proposal. We believe the setting is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2176	The previous speakers, not least the last speakers, have, as the proposers, both described and recognised the issue for SMEs in particular. Unlike the withdrawal period that we as private consumers have, a legal company does not have a corresponding right of withdrawal. We believe that this is important to change. I hear more people agree. We're excited about the work that's going on in the government, and we're looking for proposals back to the Storting that solves the challenge that we're facing here. There is also a limited right of withdrawal we propose, and we stand firm that this can be decided by the Storting. I hope that it is real will to give the small actors in particular a handshake here, because it is time to be concerned that they do not have today. They do not have the money to buy legal assistance, they need time to check that they have actually entered into an agreement, and in many cases they have not. If they have entered into something, they have often been tricked into the agreement to which it is referred. It's important that they get help. How this is to be resolved, we believe that our proposal is so open that it is fully possible for the Storting to take this decision here today. The proposal we are promoting again is: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a limited right of withdrawal for traders in the case of telephone sales of advertising services and the like where a provision to that effect is proposed in the contract law or where the Ministry is authorised to provide for such a limited right of withdrawal in the regulation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2188	Before the President-in-Office of the Council of State Anders Anundsen gets the floor, the question to the representative Kjenseth is whether he takes up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2191	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2196	Then the representative Ketil Kjenseth mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2199	I think the reality description is quite agreed, and we also hear that from the posts that have been. None of us have anything to do with scammers or catalogue sharks. I have a great deal of understanding that it is easy to get caught up in the conflicts, which the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, was also involved in. It is also the case that rules protecting recipients are already in place in the contract law and in general contract law principles, in such a way that no obligation to pay any claim arises without the consent of the recipient. The problem, of course, is that recipients believe that the requirement has a background in a previously granted consent, and pay in actual and legal error about the existence of the contract and the payment obligation, respectively. At other times, there is a claim against the claim, where the invoicer believes that an agreement has never been concluded, and sometimes, unfortunately, it is felt by the trader that it is easier to accept a manifestly unfair claim than to go into the process of having his right handled. This is a major challenge, because this also increases the problem, because the scammer has achieved what he wanted to achieve, and the method has proved to be successful. So I think that if we're going to be able to resist these kinds of challenges, one must think broadly and completely. I am not sure that a limited right of withdrawal for business is the measure that alone will solve this problem. It may be a contribution, but we have a situation in these cases where there is initially no agreement. I am not convinced that fraudsters will have more respect for a right of withdrawal than for the contract law as such. There is also some disagreement between the sole proprietor. The business association supports the introduction of a limited right of withdrawal for traders, while the NHO does not support such a proposal. That is why it is important, I think, that this is a good input into one of several actions that you should consider. As others have been involved, there is a work in the government in collaboration with several. On 29 January this year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion, the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries met to discuss possible measures. A number of different proposals were made for actions to be assessed, where a limited right of withdrawal is one of the measures under assessment. I think it is wise, as the majority of the Committee has also indicated, to await the overall assessment, which is now being followed up by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries in cooperation with the interested parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2210	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2213	I thank the Council of State for the contribution, but it also showed that this citizen is actually a political disagreement. And it surprises me a little bit that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights agrees so politically that this is probably not one of the tools that can give small businesses and individual companies a real handshake, and that there are a number of other instruments that one would consider looking at. I fully agree that information here is an important tool to help them, and that one should not pay in these cases, but it is also a demanding exercise to reach out with this information. Here it is important to facilitate the inclusion of the information we are asking for, and the 14 days such a withdrawal period will refer to, we believe is an important measure. So I hope we get this case back, with also this as one of the tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2221	I am a little uncertain as to whether the interpretation of my statement was very precisely reproduced by the representative Kjenseth when he said that there is too much political disagreement here when the committee as such agrees. That was not the purpose of my post. My installation probably intended to say that I am not sure that this alone will help to solve this challenge, and that it is therefore necessary to see these measures in the context. It does not reduce the value of the proposal that the Left has made, but I think it is important that a user of the time that one now has to complete the work that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has done with the parties to see how a best solution to this problem can be found. In this respect, there are more instruments than just a limited right of withdrawal that should be considered in this respect. And then you have to consider what's most appropriate to deal with a problem that we all agree is that is there, and that we're going to do what we can to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2226	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2240	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2247	The issue of authorisation, or dual authorisation, of manual therapists has been debated several times, including during the current majority period. In this proposal for a representative, the majority proposes to reject the case. One of the reasons for this is that a person is now faced with a series of large-scale messages and a review of the health care system, and it is not natural to address the question of competence, the issue of authorisation, for a single group in advance of such a review. It may guarantee that it is possible to look at it afterwards, but this is also reflected in the debate on specialist training by a number of health professionals. Some health professionals already have two authorisations, so the debate is as appropriate. The question is whether manual therapists do such a special treatment that they need their own authorisation for that part. Today, physiotherapists have the authorisation — and physiotherapy is the basic training of manual therapists. There have been a number of hearings here, including from previous rounds. One of the interesting ones is related to both the Consumer Ombudsman and Norwegian patients’ compensation, which in itself says that manual therapists carry out such advanced treatment that injuries occur more often than in physiotherapists, and there is a good reason to discuss further on whether that training should have its own authorisation. So the majority don't mean it per day. One of the reasons used to grant a double authorisation to manual therapists is that patients are not detected. It's not necessarily about authorization, it's about information. It is a debate we should have regularly, but the health professionals group itself must discuss how to participate in the best possible organisation and also contribute to providing it with information to patients so that they can find the right skills. Part of the debate has also been that there are misunderstandings both in patients and in the authorities, and that one who has lost his authorization as a physiotherapist may continue to practice as a manual therapist. I believe that it is essentially a supervisory challenge to ensure that those who have lost the authorisation are not allowed to practise. It's a resource question we have to look at, and also a system question that we have to go into. However, I would like to sum up by saying that this debate is about both authorisation and further training, specialist training, and also the authorisation debate after we have been through the major health care reports that we are now facing. We'll have such a debate in retrospect – if it'll be in a year or three years' time, we'll have to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2262	Patients with musculoskeletal disorders should have access to good and proper treatment and follow-up rapidly. That is the background to the draft representative that we are debating here today. This may mean, for example: workers who have been sickly reported will be able to return to work more quickly, which is both positive for the individual and for the community. Authorised manual therapists can make a difference. The working party considers that the authorisation system can ensure that health professionals have the necessary qualifications to hold a specific professional role and that it is made clear that personnel with a specific title have a specific competence. In this case, it has been crucial for us what is appropriate for patients, and how society can better reduce the consequences of the major problem that muscle and skeletal disorders represent. We believe that the concern for patients and for society must outweigh the views of various professionals who may not be so enthusiastic about this proposal. Muscle and skeletal disorders represent the largest single cause of sick leave in the workplace. So much as about 40 pst. all medical messages are attributed to such disorders. In addition, there are self-inflictions about acute and often recurring plagues. For many, it means a life of pain, loss of function and reduced quality of life. For society, this means that competent and competent people are left out of work and that considerable resources are spent on health and social security. It is therefore important that we be able to reduce the extent of musculoskeletal disorders in the entire population, not least in people of working age. Manual therapists are physiotherapists who have advanced training in manual therapy – they are specialists in muscle and skeletal disorders. But today they don't have authorization as a health care professional. In 2005, the Stortinget decided that manual therapists should have similar rights and obligations in relation to muscle and bone. Both chiropractors and manual therapists have the right to treat without referral from a doctor, report their patients for up to eight weeks, refer to a medical specialist and to physical treatment. So manual therapists are some kind of gatekeepers in the health care system, along with regular doctors and chiropractors. The other two health professionals groups are authorised in accordance with this responsibility. An authorisation of manual therapists will clarify the more independent professional role of manual therapists towards patients and clarify the role of manual therapists in relation to other healthcare professionals. At the same time, it will ensure better patient safety. Examples are that references and medical messages from manual therapists have been returned from hospitals and from Nav, with the reason that physiotherapists cannot refer or report disease. Such misunderstandings disrupt patient processes and weaken patient safety. For the benefit of all patients who will recover and who will return to work, manual therapists should be authorised now. I think it is a pity that a majority in the Grand Duchy does not meet this most reasonable requirement of treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2277	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen might want to make some suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2280	Then I take up the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2285	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2288	The case-rapporteur was just saying that this is a matter that has been discussed and investigated several times in the past. Today there are 29 personnel groups that have been authorised under the Health Care Professional Act. The preparatory work of the law refers to the fact that decisions to grant authorisation to new personnel groups shall focus on patient safety, the content and purpose of the training and the extent to which the profession is self-employed. At the same time, harmonisation with other countries must also be taken into account. The right agrees with the proposers, which suggest a general scepticism for additional health authorisation. However, we do not consider the manual therapists to be in a special position compared to other authorised personnel groups who have further training. There are a number of authorised personnel groups with advanced training levels similar to those of manual therapists, but they have not been granted their own authorisation as a result of such continuing training. It has previously been sent to the consultation proposal to authorise manual therapists. In this context, there was considerable opposition from several teams to the provision of dual authorization to physiotherapists with advanced training in manual therapy, including: was Norwegian Physiotherapist-associated opponent. Several suggested that manual therapy is to be regarded as an ongoing training based on physiotherapy, rather than an independent basic authorisation training. It was also argued that manual therapists already have authorisation as physiotherapists, and that the patient safety was then fully respected. The right considers that patient safety will be as well protected without dual authorisation of the manual therapists, as these are already authorised as physiotherapists. Manual therapy is internationally defined as continuing training in physiotherapy and the personnel group is not authorised as its own profession in any comparable country. In this way, this proposal does not harmonise – with what is in the preparatory work of the former mentioned law – with legislation in other countries. The representative, Mr. Kjeseth, was aware that there are going to be more large-scale messages where it might be relevant to discuss this issue, and I would also like to point out that the Minister of Health has announced that he will come back to the question of the possible extension of today's specialist authorisation system in the paper on the primary health service of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2301	The working party today proposes to introduce a double authorisation for manual therapists. Since this is a matter that has been going on for years, without the Workers' Party getting this in place while they were in government, I have looked for the new arguments that make the Workers' Party now, after so many years, suddenly feel that this is right. I can't find these arguments, rather on the contrary. I myself have gone from being in favour of being opposed as the arguments have become more evident in the light. The first time I had met on this topic, I had a simple approach to the matter. A double authorisation to distinguish between physiotherapy and manual therapy was sounding well. I was therefore a little surprised by the enormous resistance this aroused. Opposition came from both user organisations, employers’ organisations and professional organisations. There is also reason to note that manual therapists do not have their own authorisation in other Nordic countries, nor in the EU. Harmonisation with other countries, which is the subject of the law for the assessment of authorisation, is therefore a long way away. After going into the contradictions and practices from other countries, I see much better that dual authorisation is not the best device. The best solution seems to be to a greater extent to follow the intention that basic training may grant authorisation and that continuing training may grant a specialist authorisation. A manual therapist is a physiotherapist with advanced training in manual therapy at master level. It is a requirement to become a manual therapist that he already has training and authorisation as a physiotherapist. An authorisation shall ensure quality and competence and shall be based on basic training and not on further training. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health wrote in his letter of 30 January that, in connection with the work on the primary health notification, the question of a possible extension of the current specialist approval system will be brought back to my mind. There is reason to question whether the case is being promoted for Stortinget. The authority to settle such cases was given by Stortinget to the Ministry in 1999. If we were to try this out in this room today, we would also have to consider any other authorization applications that are at any time under consideration. Choosing one for special treatment, without wanting to take anyone else, would at least not be a good way to do it for the Progress Party. For these reasons, the Progress Party does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2316	In this case, the Center Party is something as unusual as agreeing with Right, the Progress Party and the Left. This is not a new case. We were well aware of this matter when we joined the government, and this question has been assessed many times. It's an important thing, because manual therapists are a very important health professionals, especially when we know how widespread muscle and skeletal disorders are, and there they can contribute. The question of authorisation has been assessed. Manual therapists are in a special position because they have a gatekeeper function and are allowed to diagnose, report disease, obtain and refer to them. But we're generally sceptical that one should give additional authorization. The case was sent on a ring in the autumn of 2013. We've looked carefully at the hearing signals that came in, and that's what they say, that there's extreme resistance to the hearing proposal. The most important argument in my view is that it is not established that this is necessary to ensure patient safety. So I think it would be wiser and more reasonable to consider what is said in the response from the Council of State, that the manual therapists are covered by the specialist approval scheme that follows from the health care staff section 51.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2323	In my opinion to the Health and Care Committee of 30 January I have not advised that a decision was taken in accordance with the draft representative in Document 8:44 S for 2014-2015. I notice that the majority of the committee supports this. As the majority of the Committee also refers to, there was great opposition to the Ministry’s previous consultation proposal of 9 October 2013 to grant dual authorisation to physiotherapists with advanced manual therapy training. As indicated in my opinion to the Committee, patient safety considerations will be as well taken into account without dual authorisation of the manual therapists, who are already known to be authorised as physiotherapists under the Health Care Act. Consequently, practitioners will be subject to public oversight and due diligence, and the Patient and User Rights Act is fully applicable. The argument that a double authorisation for manual therapists would provide a title protection and thus make it clearer to patients and users what kind of competence the performer actually has, I believe that only limited emphasis can be given. To the extent that there is a ambiguity related to the competence of manual therapists, this could be solved in ways other than granting a new authorisation. In addition, in my opinion, it is also more appropriate to consider manual therapy as an ongoing training based on an authorisation-giving basic training. I do not agree that the manual therapists, through their continuing training, have qualified for a professional course that differs substantially from the professional course resulting from the basic training in physiotherapy. There is already extensive cooperation between human resources groups in the provision of health care. In future health and care services, such cooperation will be at least as important, and there will probably also be a need for skills that today’s professionals hold to a low degree. New personnel groups are regularly appearing for authorisation, but the development of increasingly new authorised groups may involve a risk of a more fragmented and professional health and care services. I also point out that the proposers themselves are initially sceptical about additional health authorisation – this is because the health care service is moving towards more multidisciplinary, and because it is not desirable to have more breakdowns than strictly required. I agree with this. On a more general basis, a relatively restrictive practice can also be argued in favour of granting a new authorisation to health-care professionals groups with continuing training based on basic authorisation training. There are a number of professional continuing and continuing training schemes of different levels and sizes among different categories of staff. If manual therapists were to be authorised on the basis of the continuing training they have received, non-discrimination reasons would make it more difficult later on to refuse authorisation from other personnel groups with further training equivalent to manual therapists. This will allow for the development of ever-increasing dual-authorised personnel groups. I refer to recent initiatives in the EU to review regulated professions, including: having regard to the fact that developments have led to increased red tape and administrative costs. In the extension of this, I would like to point out that after what I am familiar with, manual therapists are also not authorised as their own profession in comparable countries. As my opinion to the Committee shows, I have not made a final assessment as to whether physiotherapists with further training in manual therapy should be covered by the public specialist authorisation scheme provided for by the Health Care Act. In the upcoming announcement of the future primary health service, I will return to the question of a possible extension of the current specialist approval system. In the message I will also come back to the question of direct access to physiotherapists in general without referral from a doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2346	The Minister of Health just said here what he said before that, if manual therapists are to be authorised on the basis of the training they have received, non-discrimination reasons will make it more difficult later to refuse authorisation from other personnel groups with further training equivalent to manual therapists. Can the Council of State see that the manual therapists, as one of three professionals with referral and medical rights, may be in a special position compared with others with regard to authorisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2353	Manual therapists have authorisation, so all the conditions that authorization provides for the benefit of the practitioner, but not least for the patient – which is the most important – are protected by the fact that the manual therapist already has an authorization as physiotherapist.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2358	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2374	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2381	The Committee has addressed the message on quality and patient safety in the health and care services for 2013. This is the first time such a message will appear in Storting. The notification is based on the annual reports from the patient and user environment, the State Health Authority, Norwegian patient damages, what comes through the Knowledge Centre's reporting system, and the final report of the national patient safety campaign. The Committee is politically committed to measures to strengthen quality and patient safety in Norway. In this option, most recommendations are from a single committee. The message is about the entire specialist services and the entire community health service, including care for the elderly, and the committee, as the government writes in the message, would stress that much is good in Norwegian healthcare. The health service represents a knowledge-intensive activity with many competent professionals, and we achieve good results in many important areas. Among other things, we do well when it comes to survival after acute myocardial infarction, stroke and cancerous cervical cancer, breast cancer and colorectal cancer. But the quality varies too much, and too many people are injured or die early as a result of failures and unfortunate events. Infections and misuses of medicinal products are two common causes of harm. Health services are also not good enough at information flow, communication and interaction. The hospital outsourcing situation is also a very vulnerable area. Waiting times for disposal, diagnosis and treatment have also been too long for too many. The Committee attaches great importance to the priority given to quality and patient safety and to the follow-up of the Quality and Safety Notice. The Committee believes that annual messages, as the government puts it, are important. Furthermore, the Committee points out that good and clear leadership is important at all levels of health services, and it is a responsibility of the leader to ensure a culture that promotes patient safety at all stages – a culture in which a person reports errors, where a teacher of his own faults, and there of course must not be afraid to take matters up internally and to express himself publicly. The Committee believes that patient-experienced quality must be focused on, and that better information, communication and involvement of the patient and their relatives must be at the heart of the work in order to create good services. The Committee shares the concern of the government that we have a lack of knowledge of the quality of services at municipal level and looks forward to the development of a municipal health and care register and quality indicators for municipal services. The Committee also highlights the concerns of patients and users about the capacity and quality of elderly care. A majority in the Committee suggests that questions are asked whether the services are sufficiently dimensioned in municipalities to meet the challenges of the elderly. The majority of the Committee also believe that this area needs to be given a lot of attention, and asks that the next quality report should give a more detailed description of the situation in this area. The Committee also refers to the State Health Authority’s Supervisory Communication for 2013 and a Joint Committee emphasises in particular the need to increase the quality and capacity of the health centre work and the medical care service. In the case of the Knowledge Centre's notification system, a Joint Committee considers that there is a need for a similar notification system for the Local Health Service. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, point to the need for today's right to the coordinator for patients who need long-term or coordinated services to be a real one at all hospitals and in all municipalities. The Committee also points to the great need for better communication within the healthcare establishment, communication with patients and relatives and communication between the different healthcare providers and between healthcare providers and municipalities. A single committee points to the preparation of an action plan in the health service against the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In addition, the centre party has focused on the fact that Norwegian hospitals today have a high occupancy rate, where the average in 2014 was about. 93 pst., and suggests a limit to what is defensive, 85 pst. evidence, as decided by the Health Authority and the UK authorities. We could have made a lot of proposals on this matter, which is so extensive, but the committee has not. We have chosen to gather on important common themes in the comments on this annual report submitted by the government, and the Committee takes the view that the Council of State and the Department read our comments carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2411	When discussing quality and patient safety in the Norwegian healthcare system, it is important to include the full picture. Much works well, and an amazing job is done by employees in the sector. Care, commitment, idealism and good competence are some of the characteristics of health care employees. It is therefore important, when you look critically at this complex and complex sector, that you do not talk down on the good offer and the good job that is mainly done in the healthcare sector. It is also important that, in our efforts to improve healthcare, we develop systems that are simple and not bureaucratic. Quality measurement is positive, but it is not certain that absolute everything can be measured. The most important thing we can do to improve health care is to listen more to patients, relatives and health workers when they tell us where the shoe prints. Not least, the information needs to be worked even harder to obtain unfiltered information for decision-makers. Unfortunately, we hear too many stories from both specialist health and primary health services about how patients, relatives and perhaps special employees who are very committed to their patients are being discouraged from saying something, and sometimes are told to keep their mouths shut about critical matters. This, of course, is totally unacceptable, and this obscenity must be put to life. It's not good management either. Good management is an important key. Good management stimulates transparency. Transparency, both indoor and outdoor, provides a positive learning effect and is a prerequisite for good quality in healthcare. As I said, Norwegian healthcare is very good, but a person also experiences some differences, and not everyone gets the help they should get. It is therefore of little comfort to those who experience having to fight the system, that most people get good follow-up and help. So we need to focus on transparency, good management and systems that capture flaws and put patients in the center. There is also a need to look at how the supervision of services works. My impression is that there's also a lot of variation here. I think we should discuss this in more detail and not least look at how supervision can get tougher in order to ensure better health care. We also need to look at the scope of action that legislators provide for supervision. An example of this issue is the concept of ‘professionally sound’ and its management from both healthcare and supervision. We agree that the systems need to be further developed in such a way that they work for the benefit of patients, relatives and health care staff, and I look forward to further discussions on this important topic – not only in this matter, but also in many other important health issues that come to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2432	Security of assistance and care when needed is the cornerstone of our welfare society. Ensuring good health and care services to all is the responsibility of the public. The message we are dealing with identifies quality and patient safety challenges in healthcare, in particular related to participation, interaction and patient injury. It tells us that there is still a lack of knowledge about the status of large parts of healthcare services, particularly in municipal health and care services. Norwegian health and care services are very well developed in most areas. Internationally, Norway scores high on survival for diseases such as cancer, heart failure and stroke. At the same time, we know that we have a significant potential for improvement, both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service. The quality of services varies too much, and we have a lot to pick up on waiting time, competence, better organisation, cooperation, service and communication. Increased focus on quality and patient safety is one of the main areas of government concern in health and care. It is therefore very positive that the Minister of Health will come to Stortinget every year with a communication on quality and patient safety. An annual notification will hopefully show good change results, in the wake of the government being presented and put into practice all its communications and plans to improve health and care services across levels. It is a major challenge to experience that people with a high need for help do not always get the help they need and are entitled to. It is serious that many are injured or die prematurely as a result of failure and adverse events in the health and care services. We simply can't be aware of this, either defender. The government's goal is to create the patient's healthcare. In order for us to succeed, and to learn from our own and each other's mistakes, both employees and patients must be able to report critical facts and mistakes that are being made. It is a management responsibility to manage the business and develop a culture that promotes transparency and increased patient safety at all stages of the organisation. Better information and communication with patients and relatives, and their better involvement, are central to the government’s efforts to create the patient’s healthcare. Improved quality and secure services must be ensured by changing and improving both systems, management and culture. The establishment by the government of a municipal health and care register and increased awareness of ICT and communication will also be of great importance for the success of this important work. In order to reduce waiting lists, the government introduces free treatment options and provides faster diagnosis and reduced waiting time for cancer patients. We make a stepping-up plan for the drug field and build up the mental health service in the municipalities. In the last two state budgets, government and cooperation parties have increased the country's financial responsibility for ensuring the quality and capacity of municipalities. Furthermore, the government will promote a public health message, a primary health message, a youth health strategy, a dementia plan and a national health and hospital plan – all important contributions to better planning a healthcare service with capacity and competence to meet future needs. The government opted to create the patient’s healthcare, with an increased focus on better quality and patient safety. The patient's needs shall be centred. We want to create a healthcare service that is characterised by transparency, because transparency is a prerequisite for good quality. The communication on quality and patient safety contributes to this and is necessary to ensure an equivalent and good health provision for all in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2453	For the first time, Stortinget presents a big message about quality and patient safety in our healthcare. This is the first in the series of annual communications that will come to shed light on the quality of Norwegian health services. Knowledge of the quality of Norwegian healthcare is essential for the development of hospitals. We need to learn from the services that work and from those that provide good services. At the same time, we need to know and improve parts of the health services that are failing. This knowledge is essential for creating the patient’s healthcare. It is a pleasure to see that Norwegian healthcare is very good. Norway is doing better than the OECD average in several areas. At the same time, it is worrying that we cut worse than the average waiting time, help coordinate treatment and experience the quality of medical care received. At the same time, it is worth noting that this review dates from 2013, when Norwegian hospitals ran into red-green budgets and red-green policies. Norwegian health services shall be developed on the basis of professional guidance, but shall also be shaped in the light of patients, users and relatives’ experience in dealing with hospitals. Ensuring that you receive good health services when the disease occurs is essential to maintain confidence in our health services. Most people experience Norwegian health services as well. At the same time, too many people wait unnecessarily long for treatment in our hospitals. Over eight years with a red-green government, we saw that the waiting times grew, and the queues were longer. Many experience waiting time and ignorance that often follow, as frustrating, and it can create insecurity. For many, it is difficult or impossible to carry out work and everyday tasks during this waiting period. For others, injury or disease may worsen when waiting time is too long. The progress party went to the elections to reduce the waiting times, and we are happy that the waiting times are now finally coming down. There is a result of two government budgets from the Right-Fremskrit party government with the health effort of time. In the state budget for the current year, we allocated 2 billion. For increased patient care. The right-wing Party government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment in our first two budgets, compared to what the red-greens were adopted over their eight years. Reducing waiting times is good for the individual who escapes the additional stress that waiting time can bring: concerns, worsening of disease and, in the worst case, death. The socio-economic impact of shorter waiting times is that more people are returning to work more quickly and the need to report disease decreases. The more people we work, the more money we want to fund our healthcare. It is therefore essential that workers return to work quickly. The red-green government helped develop a two-part healthcare service, where they can buy themselves out of the queue with good advice, while they have to wait with poor advice. We therefore introduce free treatment options. Patients entitled to health care should be able to choose where to treat them from among approved institutions — on public account. The free choice of treatment should provide for faster treatment and freedom of choice in Norwegian hospitals. The Government will present a national health and hospital plan. This plan shall contribute to the better management of the quality of specialist health services — and patient-experienced quality shall be equivalent to medical quality. The plan will be the government's main tool for designing the future hospital and specialist health service. The Progress Party will continue to strengthen our health services – for our objective is a healthcare service that provides us with all security, with high quality and good accessibility. Wherever you live, whether you are a woman or a man with a high income or if you are unemployed, you should always be sure that you get good treatment in Norwegian health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2476	The Quality and Patient Safety Communication facilitates a broad and open discussion on the status and challenges of Norwegian healthcare. The left is very pleased that from now on we get such annual messages to the Stortinget that brings these debates into a system. The notification identifies quality and patient safety challenges in healthcare services. The challenges are particularly related to participation, communication, interaction and patient damage. In this way, it is alarming that Norway scores worse than the average in the annual health system survey conducted by The Commonwealth Fund. This applies, inter alia, to: waiting time for specialist health services, user orientation of prescribers, experienced quality of health care received and, in particular, mismedication and mistreatment. We have a good health service in Norway, but we also need to take the challenges seriously. Patient and user representatives are thus important, and it is also the patient organisations and user interests. We must listen carefully to these actors. In particular, the patient and user representatives promote mental health protection and treatment of drug addicts and indicate that hospital/municipal outsourcing and cooperation are frequent causes of referrals, followed by referrals to medication. Patients often have no knowledge of or have been offered an individual level. In this way, it is a key word to much of the lack of participation and communication that we are talking about. A recent report from the National Knowledge Centre on in-patients in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment shows that ruspacers are the group of patients who are least satisfied with the treatment they receive in the Norwegian healthcare system. Today, addicts do not get a good enough offer. Among other things, the Left has promoted a proposal in the Stortinget on a more humane care for drug users. Furthermore, this underlines the need for an escalating plan in the field of drugs that I am pleased that the cooperation parties, with the government parties, have agreed on in the front. It is also worth noting that the ombudsmen raise questions about whether the health and care services in municipalities are sufficiently dimensioned to meet the challenges of care for the elderly. It is therefore important to build a capacity in the future. The threshold for long-term hospitalisation is very high in many municipalities, and the supply of relief and rehabilitation is not available. Many relatives are dissatisfied with the content of treatment, care and care. Some of this is also due to a lack of dialogue and communication, but it is also about a lack of time. The left shares the government's concern that we have a lack of knowledge about the quality of services at municipal level. We therefore look forward to the establishment of a municipal health and care register and quality indicators for municipal services. In the case of municipal services, we are also concerned that there are deficiencies in the supervision of health centres. There is a major cause for concern because in many cases it is about children and young people. Health stations thus play a unique role in following up children and young people, and are a wide range of low-threshold services that are important for both capacity and quality. Among other things, we have therefore, the number of health sisters in health centres has been highlighted as one important instrument, but it is also important to emphasise that there must be other health professionals in health centres and that capacity must be built there as well. Finally, I would like to focus my attention on the training of those who currently have a special user responsibility – there are user councils in regional health companies, and also in health companies, linked to individual hospitals. The training is different today, and the FFO and the other actors have a responsibility to contribute to the schooling. I also think that the authorities need to take a little more responsibility for contributing to that schooling, both in terms of the number and quality of training. We're getting a complicated system, and that system skills is very central to the user representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2493	The government has provided its first Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard, and it is now scheduled to take place every year. Today – as the Storting will deal with the message – I have been looking forward to many years. This is an important milestone. The notification shall summarise the status and challenges of quality and patient safety across the healthcare service, based on existing sources. I got the idea of such a message in 2011 when I was on the Health and Care Committee. It was based on my experience from the municipal committee a few years earlier, where we received annual reports of, among other things, privacy protection for treatment in Stortinget. The government's ambition is to create the patient's healthcare. Ensuring safe and good services and avoiding damage and adverse events are fundamental to the patient’s health care. Good management anchoring at all levels and a system and a culture that stimulates learning and improvement are essential for success. In 2011, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left promoted a number of measures on quality and patient safety. One of the proposals was that the annual supervisory notification from the State Health Authority and the national reports on patient and user representatives should be transformed into a quality and patient safety notification, using the model from the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Officer, which are treated as a wholesale notification every year. The proposal was not supported by the government parties at the time, nor was it supported by a majority in the Stortinget. When we joined the government in 2013, the work on the quality report was something we started immediately. Today, I am very pleased that an overall committee supports the lifting of annual reports on quality and patient safety up to an annual debate in the Grand Duchy, as is done with the financial framework conditions for healthcare through the State budget. Norwegian health services achieve good results in many areas. We're lying, for example. high on survival for diseases such as cancer, heart failure and stroke. At the same time, we can get better. The Storing Communication provides a picture of the status and challenges of quality and patient safety in the entire healthcare service, as expressed in annual reports from the patient and user representatives and from the State Health Authority. In addition, the notification contains a broad range from the annual report to Norwegian patients’ compensation, the Knowledge Centre’s reporting system on adverse events, the final report of the patient safety campaign and national and international quality indicators. Through these sources, we are informed of the challenges and cases of failure, and we are told where action needs to be taken. Health surveillance, patient and user representatives have identified challenges in information, participation and communication, lack of coordination, cooperation and competence, capacity and waiting time. Health surveillance has also highlighted unclear responsibilities, lack of agreements and lack of cooperation practices between the health centre and the permanent staff. Childbirth care failures have been identified through the alert mechanism and event-based supervision. The patient and user representatives are particularly concerned about the capacity and quality of elderly care. We still have some work to do to create good patient outcomes and improve interaction between health care levels. Patients are not sufficiently involved in decisions concerning them as individuals or as a group. This is also confirmed by the Knowledge Centre's patient experience study and The Commonwealth Fund's studies. International comparisons do not give a precise and complementary picture, but are nevertheless a source of knowledge that we need to use for improvement. The first annual notification of quality and patient safety does not contain proposals for new measures. In the forthcoming public health, primary health, medicinal products and national health and hospital plans, the government will propose measures in many areas in the health and care sector. The patient’s healthcare is the overall guide in these notifications, and the objective of creating good and safe health and care services is continuous. The fact that we have now summarised sources and obtained quality and patient safety status provides us with an important basis for setting targets and proposing measures in the communications coming this year. A number of measures have been taken in recent years, including: as part of the follow-up to the Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard submitted in 2012. This work we follow up. In the area of mental health protection and drugs, cancer treatment and care services, we have implemented a number of measures to improve quality, strengthen interaction and reduce waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2522	In the evening post on 11 March we could read about the 73-year-old patient who died after he did not have enough food at the hospital of Aarhus – a weight loss of 21 kg resulting in death, a serious system failure that should not occur in the Norwegian health system. I will therefore ask the Council of State the following questions: How in the world could this happen? What has the Council of State done to ensure that such things do not happen, and what will the Council of State do in the future to prevent such things from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2527	That event has been assessed by the Health Authority, and unfortunately that event confirms the challenges that are clearly identified in this Storing Communication. It is very much about the lack of coordination of services, the lack of cooperation and the poor transmission of information in the service. We are now implementing the kind of concrete action to meet these challenges. We do that by introducing a cancer package, which is just about coordinated services, with a responsible coordinator who follows the patient through the service. This is a locomotive for the way to think for the rest of the healthcare system. We have also sent a proposal at the hearing that the individual patient with serious hospital illnesses should have the right to a permanent contact doctor, what Per Fugelli calls the hospital hospital emergency doctor. It is also a concrete measure aimed at improving such conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2535	We have a lot of common thought to strengthen healthcare, both primary and specialist healthcare. But there's one thing that surprises me, and that also the representative Toppe so far was involved in his post, and that's the coordinator role. There is no doubt that many of those most in need of the healthcare system, both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service, need a coordinator, a coordinator who works independently of the service, and who can help to find out and not least coordinate. We know that there are varying quality among the coordinators. We know that many are fighting a fight against the system. We also know that a good coordinator may be able to work more effectively in terms of coordination of services. Why is it so hard to get the government to strengthen the coordinator function? That's my question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2540	I think it's a strange question, that it's going to be hard for the government to help strengthen the coordinate role. We may be doing the most systematic work that has ever been done to ensure the co-ordinator's role, through what we do with a cancer package. There we already see that it gives positive, concrete results. Then I would also like to remind you that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left repeatedly in the previous period suggested that the individual patient should also have a personal right to have a permanent contact doctor in the hospital. This was something that the Workers' Party voted down, and as they thought it was not necessary for the patient to have. Now it's a bill on this at the hearing, and we have the intention to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2547	It has been raised beyond any doubt that there is a statutory right to the coordinator today, especially in the primary health service, but that it works very differently from the municipality to the municipality. So the council has just done something in some parts of the somatic environment, but the picture out there is very clear that this is a service that works well somewhere and weakly elsewhere. It might go first and foremost against those with complex disorders and those who need the most help and follow-up. So I would like to ask again: what does the government think to do for these groups, perhaps with particular emphasis on primary health services, to strengthen the coordinating role and to ensure an equivalent offer in that way, no matter where you live in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2552	The system entitled to the coordinator of the primary health service is a system that was introduced as a statutory obligation in the context of the revision of the municipal health and care services law. We see that in the same way as the system of individual plans, which is a system that was introduced even longer ago, and which was to remedy these conditions, there is a wide variation between municipalities in how to use these tools. There is some background for us to now promote a globalisation of primary health services, which should address just how to ensure more complex, coherent and team-based primary health services. What we now see is that the form of interaction, to which there was a lot of attention, was very much about interaction between primary health services and specialist health services, but it had little attention to it that the health services in the municipalities are very much silo-organised, and that it is missing there. It is precisely what the new message is about to grasp.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2557	Right and Progress are not included in a note to secure all a patient coordinator. Then I know that the state council as an opposition politician was very concerned with the patient coordinator. In an interpellation on 3 June 2013, questions were asked to the then Minister of Health Gahr Støre when the Council of State said that all patients should be given a patient coordinator. The representative, Höie, said at the time that he had not met one health care company that had introduced it, and he was very impatient about the patients getting this offer. I would like to ask the Council of State, just as he asked the previous Council of State: when do my Höie say that patients in Norwegian hospitals are to be offered a patient coordinator?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2562	Patients need a coordinator, and that means we're now working in a systematic way, which I also answered the previous question, to make sure patients get it. I believe that what we are doing in the field of cancer is a locomotive for the way we are going to organise services in other areas of the future. I believe that what one will discover is that that role is absolutely central, that it is important for the individual patient, and that it is important for the individual patient to get good information, but that it is also actually important for the hospitals, for the healthcare companies, in order to ensure a good use of their resources. I am absolutely convinced that more people will see the light – and the significance of that role. My question to the previous health minister was also that the hospitals had a duty to have that role, but that patients did not have a right. We have now sent to the hearing a proposal that means that a rights-holding system of contact doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2569	First of all, I think it's right to use this opportunity to commend the Council of State for his commitment to this debate and to transparency in the healthcare system over a long time, and that we have politicians who have a continuity and who have been in several committees. I am particularly concerned about the municipal work and the quality work there. Today, we have supervisory functions that have been added to the Health Authority and the county officials, who supervise the municipalities. Some municipalities do some supervisory work and quality work on their own keel, but it is very different organized. The municipality of Oslo has supervisory boards in the districts, among others, while the municipality of Trondheim uses the municipal audit, which I also think is a good approach, because they then acquire a systematics and a knowledge of their own business to run supervision. But I want to hear the thoughts of the Council of State on how we can put in place a more systematic supervision and quality work locally, with our own services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2578	I think that's a very important and good question, and that's also one of the reasons why, when we took over government responsibility, we changed the mandate to what was then called the Syse Committee, but now called the Arianson Committee, which is going to make its recommendations in a NOU during the fall. There we will, among other things: to assess whether the notification and alert obligation under the Special Health Service Act should also cover municipal health and care services. I believe that there is a lot of good supervisory work done by the Health Authority. Patients are doing a lot of good, and good reports are being made. Unfortunately, we see that those reports are not used well enough by the political level of management in municipalities in following up their services. I believe that, with what the Storting does today, we are going ahead with that thinking, and I hope that the municipalities will follow in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2585	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2590	Just a very brief remark: the council is constantly grabbing back to what happened on the red-green watch, and then I really want to do the same. In this debate, it may sound as if this is the first news of patient safety and quality, but it is not. For general information, I have to say – and as I heard the Council of State say in a petition, and it was very good – that the first stuttering message came from the Stoltenberg II government, Meld. St. 10 for 2012-213, Good quality – secure services. I want to mention this big message, because it was built on a multi-annual campaign for quality and patient safety called in safe hands, under the auspices of the Health Services Knowledge Centre. Once I've traveled around, for example. on hospital visits, I have heard a lot about that this campaign meant a lot to awareness of quality and patient safety. It is very good that the Council of State, the Ministry and the Government present a new big message on this important topic. I have from this pulpit and from other pulpits praised the government when I think they're doing something good. It is very good that we have this for treatment today, and I hope the Council of State can be generous enough to say that he is standing on his shoulders for a very important work that was done on a red-green watch, among other things. This big message and also the patient safety campaign that we had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2599	Then I have to correct if there has been a misunderstanding. It is quite clear that this is not the first big message on patient safety and quality. This is the first annual reporting on patient safety and quality. It is quite right that the previous government promoted a big message that built, among other things, on the patient safety campaign, which was a very good campaign. It was so good that we turned it into a permanent program. So it's no longer a campaign, but a permanent way of working. I am very pleased, as I also said in my speech, that the Stortinget has unanimously agreed that the Stortinget needs to discuss annually the status of patient safety and quality, not as a staggering message that comes once upon a time with different measures, but as an annual status around this work, which just summarises what are the national health oversight services, which are the annual reports of patients and user representatives, which are the summary of the Knowledge Centre's reporting systems and the international comparable studies in which Norway is involved. This is simply because it gives these systems an elevated status. A lot of work is being done in these reports. Those who read these reports will also see that they are very educational. They are well-suited as tools for management in the different parts of our business to learn, and not least learn from the mistakes that others have made, to improve the systems and avoid mistakes. So I think it's also right, as many people have been involved in the submissions here, that this is very much about a conscious management, and that management at the different levels makes it clear that achieving good patient safety and quality is crucial for our services, and that we are measuring health and care services in Norway also on patient safety and quality outcomes. I believe it is absolutely right that this also applies to Stortinget, and that the Stortinget therefore gets this opportunity every year to look at patient safety and quality independently, for example. of the discussion on budgets and the financial framework. I also hope that it will be an inspiration for example. our municipalities, and that they may also look at some of the national supervision and the messages of patient and user representatives, to just discuss the status and challenges of their own services, because it will have a significant impact on the attention of the service as a whole in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2614	I take the word because there are some things that have been more unexplained after the lines. The patient and user environment said in the Annual Report for 2013 that it was a problem that very many patients could not name a coordinator. This applies to patients who need long-term and coordinated services. The government has sent out a hearing proposal on the right and obligation to have a contact doctor named. As I read the hearing proposal, it does not mean that today's obligation to offer a coordinator falls. It's in the specialist health law today. Thus, there is a reasonable question as to what plan the government has for the time that the coordinator is entitled to have – as we have asked questions about today. So the state councils in the lines say that the government will also make a coordinator an individual right. I can't see that either. But I meant to hear that the government's answer to the challenges of having very few coordinators was to make it an individual right. So I would like the Council of State to clear this up, because if it's not the government's intention to make a coordinator an individual right, what's the government's deal with for more health professionals to offer this? It's actually a statutory duty, and it's a problem that this work seems to be going very late. So I would like an explanation of the difference between the contact doctor and the patient coordinator, what should be an individual right and not, what is specifically done to give more people a coordinator, and what time you see that it's going to be a real right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2625	Today's rules do not give the right to the coordinator, but impose on health companies and municipalities an obligation to appoint the coordinator. The obligation is limited to patients and users in need of complex or long-term and coordinated services and is regulated by the Special Health Service Act and by the Health and Care Services Act. As I said in my post, there has been a similar arrangement that has been an obligation arrangement, at least for about ten years, maybe a little longer, and despite that, we see that there are challenges to this. Then I pointed out what we're doing in the cancer field, where we see that organizing services in a different way, applying a process based on what the individual patient needs, and linking it to a coordinator role, is also a useful tool to ensure that patients get the coordinator that healthcare companies have to offer. Then there is a point that patients also need to have a contact doctor to deal with, and that is where the government now – contrary to what the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party would want in the previous period – has sent a proposal to consult that patients also have an individual right system for a contact doctor. This will also be an important mechanism, not least to provide the patient with good and coherent health care information. No changes have been proposed to the current obligation to appoint the coordinator, except that the general rule that the specialist healthcare coordinator should be a doctor is removed, and an individual right to have a contact doctor in the specialist healthcare service is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2634	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2648	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2654	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2662	In the course of the debate, Åsmund Aukrust has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the future national budget to report the status of the 17 sustainable development indicators presented in the national budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further development of sustainable development indicators and for procedures to ensure that the indicators become as relevant to the regular policy activity and budgetary process as far as possible to the number of key priorities are concerned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2691	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2723	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 3, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 1 and 2, by Une Aina Bastholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a change in the energy labelling scheme so that buildings with district heating as energy solution can also achieve energy character A.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2750	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the adjustment of the energy labelling scheme so that buildings connected to the district heating network achieve the same character as an identical heat pump construction.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess adjustments to the energy labelling scheme so that buildings with local bioenergy solutions achieve the same character as an identical building with heat pump.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2779	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2792	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for instruments to phase fossil oil into district heating and make district heating as resource efficient as possible.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party have now announced that they will subsidize the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2826	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Per Rune Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Per Rune Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case for a uniform tariff model in order to achieve an equivalent network tariff in the regional network and the central network for high-end consumers and how such a scheme can be implemented quickly to ensure predictability for all SFHB enterprises linked to the regional network.’;» [[SFHB]] The Greens have announced that they want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2852	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the inclusion of relevant network facilities in the central network based on the utility of an industrial enterprise located in the regional network for the central network’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2883	During the debate, Per Rune Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on how to follow up the report ‘A better organised electricity network’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2916	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 2 by Ola Elvestuen, on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament 3-7, by Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 8-11, from Une Aina Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 8-11, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to allow municipalities to regulate the use of diesel cars on the national roads and the county roads of the municipalities during periods when the air pollution levels exceed or are at risk of exceeding the limit values set out in Regulation No. 9331 on pollution control.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for guidelines on State co-responsibility and participation to ensure that municipal regulation of diesel vehicles on the national and county roads can be effectively enforced.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan to strengthen local authorities’ competence in climate policy and adaptation.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size of the vessel requests the government to ensure that the municipalities are given the opportunity to refuse access to the port during periods when the air pollution levels exceed or are at risk of exceeding the agreed limit values.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e2963	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-7, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose its own legal framework allowing municipalities to impose the installation of high-speed chargers and other zero-emission transport infrastructure on service stations, purchasing centres and similar commercial buildings.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an overview of greenhouse gas emissions from state activities within each municipality to be made readily available.’;» Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose to allow municipalities to introduce environmentally differentiated tolls for the purpose of reducing local air pollution.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals to allow municipalities to shut down public and private parking facilities in areas where professional authorities consider it important to reduce traffic.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals to authorise municipalities to prepare signage measures, which make it appropriate for traffic to establish collective fields at one day’s notice.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3000	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to allow municipalities to regulate the use of diesel cars on all or part of the national roads in the municipalities during periods when the air pollution values exceed or are at risk of exceeding the limit values set out in Regulation No. 9331 on pollution control.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3017	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Left Party, the Left Party, and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to give municipalities the power to impose local environmental taxes on fossil oil firing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3039	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 49 votes were cast against and 45 votes in favour of the Committee's vote. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.09.19]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3048	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3053	Since it seems that others voted incorrectly, the vote must be taken again. So the Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3099	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3107	During the debate, Mr Skkelstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the person at risk of interruption of a special reaction for expulsion is given free legal assistance.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3227	The Greens have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3240	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Greens to vote against the Greens. The voting boards showed that there were 92 votes in favour and 1 vote against the law's title and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3247	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3252	The vote was not recorded – as it was voted again. The President expects the Greens to continue to vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3266	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3299	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3312	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Greens will vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3326	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3624	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3635	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3687	The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3700	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3714	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3771	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3781	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3853	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e3863	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4526	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4536	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4588	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4601	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4615	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4628	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4661	During the debate, Mr Ketil Kjeseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal is made available to the representatives. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a limited right of withdrawal for traders in the case of telephone sales of advertising services and the like where a provision to that effect is proposed in the contract law or where the Ministry is authorised to provide for such a limited right of withdrawal in the regulation.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4696	During the debate, Tove Karoline Knutsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to propose that manual therapists be included in the list of authorised health professionals in the first paragraph of Section 48 of the Health Care Act.» The voting boards showed that 63 votes were cast against and 34 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.19.14]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4708	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4713	I also voted incorrectly!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4718	Since it's two, it's going to get wasted again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4762	Case No. 18 is the second time the law has been dealt with and is subject to the rule of law 44. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-17.ana.ud2256e4840	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened.
