ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e26	There are permit applications from representatives Heidi Nordby Lunde and Helge Thorheim for leave from 22 October to 18 November, from representatives Norunn Tveiden Benestad, Tone Merete Sønsterud and Anne Tingelstad Wøien for leave from 22 October to 30 October and from 4 November to 18 November, and from the representative Iselin Nybø for leave from 22 October to 30 October and from 4 November to 19 November – all to attend the 70th General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the State of Oppland, Ivar Odnes, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 16 November to 18 November under the leave of the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: for the West Agder province: Benjamin Groenvold, 10-18. November For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen, 10–18. November For Uppland County: Ivar Odnes 22-30. ==References== ==References====External links== November For Oslo: Frode Helgerud 3–18. November For Rogaland County: Kari Raustein 3–18. ==References====External links== ==References== November
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e95	The representative of Ms Aasen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e98	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Trond Giske, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Martin Henriksen and myself, promote a proposal for a representative to look at the consequences of the introduction of skills requirements for all teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e103	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e106	On behalf of the representatives of Tone Merete Sønsterud, Åsmund Aukrust, Rigmor Aasrud, Sonja Mandt and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on a comprehensive review of important cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e111	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e123	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Jan Tore Sanner and Ketil Solvik-Olsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e130	My question goes, perhaps not so surprising, to the Minister of Finance. While the debate on the last year's budget was mainly about the unsocial arrangements in that budget, we have had a debate that has been dominated by the enormous use of money by the government so far this year. Oil money use now, measured as the oil-corrected deficit, is in three years as high as in eight red-green years, including the financial crisis. The budget deficit, as a percentage of GDP, has never been higher as far back as the Ministry of Finance has measured this, and for the third consecutive year, expenditure should grow faster than the growth of the economy. The head of the government's own selection to look at the rule of action, Øystein Thøgersen, declared last week's judgment on the use of money. To today's Business he said: ‘The level of oil money use growth which has ended in recent years is set at a level that cannot be continued.’ It is not that this year's budget is an exceptional budget, as some suggest. As DN's political editor, Alstadheim, wrote last Saturday: "It will be the seventh time she turns up the money tap. There's more, more and more. The fourth year's budget harvest showed how embarrassingly weak budgetary management is. To cover the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, a bag charge was launched, and no one would take responsibility for it. A few months later, it was dropped. And replaced with more oil money. The government also chose the light road in the harvest.» Corresponding criticisms have been read in the leadership position both in the Evening Post and in the VG in the last days. My question is really very simple: with the large costs we know ahead of us, the pension costs that are really going to take place in 20-30 years' time, does the Minister of Finance think that she has so far put Norway in a better or worse position to deal with the expenditures of the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e155	I have to thank you for an opportunity to talk widely about developments in the Norwegian economy. So the government has put forward a budget that is well adapted to the challenges we are now facing. We have put forward measures to meet the short-term challenges related to the fact that many people are now losing their jobs, not least reinforced by the severe oil price drop we have seen. It has been taken seriously by the government and met with a package of measures of 4 billion. kr targeted towards the counties and industries that have been particularly affected by it, and I have not caught up that someone has been critical that we are actually doing something in the short term to curb the development of unemployment. Secondly, the government has been concerned about the long-term transition. The heading of this budget was ‘work, activity and conversion’. It's about doing more things to convert our economy, and it's not done overnight. The government has focused on many important structural reforms. The main long-term structural reform that the government has put before the Storting is the tax reform. I have noticed some interesting comments from the Workers' Party to that, which may indicate that there may be a basis for a broad settlement in Stortinget – but it remains to be seen. What I have also heard the Workers' Party say in its overall approach to this budget is that they should cut down on the use of oil money, and then they should tighten up the taxes. I'll warn you about it. I believe it is the wrong medicine with the situation in the Norwegian economy now facing, but I would like to invite the Workers' Party to a discussion on how we can implement and speed up more structural reforms. The government has done a lot of work to streamline and red tape the public sector, but it is not always so that it is greeted with cheers in various parties in the Grand Duchy. So I want to encourage more parties in the Biggest to be concerned with the long-term transformation both so that we can free resources from bureaucracy over to better service production, and so that we can lay the foundation for increased growth in the economy. We do that, not least through the government's tax reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e164	Now it's probably not the heading of the budget that's the problem, it's more the content of it. It's not only the growing proportion of older people who are going to put our finances under pressure in the next few years, but also the refugee flow that we're now seeing coming is going to be a challenge for us. We could read in the evening post a few days ago that the government planned to cut the budget to deal with the asylum flow despite the fact that it had already begun. We could also read that the cooperation parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, suggested that the government deliberately made too little money to deal with the asylum flow to Norway, and that is serious in that case. So my question is, how is it really possible to run on money while not taking full account of the refugee situation? We understand the need for an additional proposition and that there was not a full overview in August, but when you blow up all possible electoral budget lines instead of holding back and making sure that the Storting actually has a room for action, and when you know that there are difficult times ahead of us, it borders on what you can call irresponsible. Can the Minister of Finance say with her hand that she believes this is good management and responsible budgeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e175	The only thing I didn't catch up with the Workers' Party's questions was whether the Workers' Party also believes that the government has deliberately mismanaged the budget we have submitted. I would like to know, because in that case it is a serious claim. I can at least say that this finance minister would have had a much simpler task if we had had updated estimates from the calculation team when the budget was created. We didn't. However, we have submitted a budget well adapted to the economic situation, and we immediately informed the Stortinget of the need to provide an additional number as a result of the speeding up of the influx of asylum to Norway after the government's budget had been completed. Then I had asked to get new forecasts as the best possible basis for doing something about it. But I just want to challenge the Storting on this. This is going to be challenging. This is going to cost a lot of money. This is going to require a lot of us in a lot of areas, and I'm going to warn against making this a political game in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e180	It opens for follow-up questions – first Lisbeth Berg-Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e183	At the hearing on the State budget of the Financial Committee, the review tone was that in the draft State budget, the use of oil money is very high. The warnings of increasing or continuing were strong. The day after the budget was presented, the Minister for Fisheries of the Fisherman newspaper stated that although the expansionary state budget helped to strengthen the crown, Norwegian seafood has to endure it. Does the Minister for Finance agree with the Minister for Fisheries that those who export herring, cod and sein – and, to the extent, other export industries – must tolerate this increase in costs? I assume that party leader Siv Jensen is pleased that the Progress Party has won the battle over the use of oil money within the government, but how pleased is Minister of Finance Siv Jensen that, on her watch in the Ministry of Finance, there has never been a greater intrusion into the savings of future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e190	Let me repeat: the government has provided a budget that is well adapted to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy now, and I recorded that the budget has also been very well received around the whole country. Different industries, different business organisations and a wide range of professional economists have thought that the budget is well adapted to the situation we face. So the representative Berg-Hansen knows very well that Norway has floating currency. The krone swings, but the truth is that the krone price has declined significantly over the last year, which is a significant contribution to competitive business and industry along the coast. That's good, because that means that our automatic buffers work. Then the government has created a budget that is adapted to the short-term challenges of rising unemployment, which I assume is the Labour Party because the government spends money on. In addition, we focus on the long-term transition, which is absolutely necessary if the Norwegian economy is to grow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e197	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e200	We were in consultation both Thursday and Friday last week, and it was, I think, quite interesting to observe that the budget – also in the case of the 2016 oil money use – was well received. That was the review tone among all the major organizations, that should be said. Many support this because they believe that 2016 must be seen as an exceptional year, and according to the national budget presented by the government, the government also believes that 2016 is, in so far as it is an exceptional year, at least in terms of economic growth, that it is back on track in 2017. With those assumptions, my question is to the Minister of Finance: Does the Minister of Finance think that 2016 is an exceptional year for oil money use?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e208	The Minister of Finance believes that the government always provides budgets that are well adapted to the economic situation. Of course, we will also focus on when we are going to start working on the 2017 government budget. Creating a budget is based on as up-to-date estimates as possible of important developments in the economy. It's not that long before we start working on the state budget for 2017, but it's far ahead. If the main features of the budget that we have now presented to the Storting – which is of course to be negotiated and adopted by the Storting first – go through, I hope that it will produce the effects that have been estimated in the budget, namely that we will increase growth, and that we will start a part of the long-term transition that is absolutely necessary so that we can create more employment, more jobs, which in turn will generate more revenue to the Treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e215	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e218	Marianne Marthinsen found out how the government has underestimated the costs of refugees. This year, the government has concluded an agreement with the EU on new EEA funds. There has been an increase of 11 pst., which will be applied to many different projects. As an EEA opponent, I think it was an unwise agreement, but what surprises me in the budget is that you have cut 2.1 billion. SEK in allocations to EEA funds when you have said that you should increase by 11 pst. And then you say you have to come back with your own proposition to the Stortingen about the EEA funds. There are two new billions that the government has pushed ahead of it. What we see in that government budget paper is that it's a pattern. You deliberately or unconsciously chose to push a lot of the refugee costs in front of you. You had to know that it was wrong what was in the budget. One deliberately or unconsciously chose to push the large EEA bill for a couple of billion dollars in front of it; it was more comfortable to take it later. Is this a new government strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e223	I am not quite sure if I understood what Battle Violence Vedum actually asked for, but what I heard was the claim that the government must have known that the influx of asylum seekers would be different. In that case, Vedum has information other than that available to the government. I want to remember what is behind the curtain: The influx of asylum seekers went down in the first half of 2015. This is also the case – and Schlagsvold Vedum knows well since he has been in the government itself – that this is an estimate that we receive four times a year. He also knows very well that we base many of the assumptions in the budget on professional estimates. It's not like you're politically sitting and estimating the oil price next year, it's coming as a professional estimate. The same applies to a wide range of conditions in the fear of the people, etc. That's the estimate we're making in the budget. I guess Battle Violence Vedum agrees that it's over time that we're continuing that system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e228	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e231	It is not so often that I envy Marianne Marthinsen, but today I did it when she stood here quite rank and clean, as I wished I could have done, with regard to the use of oil money. I can't, I have to take a considerable share of responsibility for the oil money we've been using in the last two years. I also thought that Marianne Marthinsen could have had a certain audacity to the legacy we received in 2013 when we were going to take co-responsibility for the budget, which at that time was all reasonablely voluminous and had had a strong growth in the public sector. There is no doubt that we now have an oil money usage that is not sustainable in the long term. We are forced to start processes already in the fall as usually four resources for operations to finance future well-being – that one does not send the bill to future generations. It would have been very interesting to hear what the Minister of Finance, who has spent two years in orchestral space, has – what she sees of possibilities to free the billions of money to ensure that we share...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e236	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e239	I would like to consult with Mr Breivik on how we can carry out structural reforms and improve the efficiency of the public sector at a higher pace than today. In the last year’s budget, we presented a red tape and efficiency reform that every year has the intention to release resources for better services. What is most surprising is that the red-green government never came up with the idea of introducing such a reform despite the fact that our neighbouring countries have it. We work in a wide range of areas of action that can release resources. We have now put forward a new proposal to the Stortinget, which is not entirely unknown to the representative of Breivik, namely the tax collection. It is also a good structural measure that can free resources, not least to strengthen the local economy. We're going to have to have a discussion about that. If the overall goal is to improve efficiency, red tape, better use of taxpayers’ money, it does not just help to talk about it, then you actually have to make decisions about concrete things that free resources. That is why I invite you to good negotiations in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e244	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e247	It must be a little bitter for the Minister of Finance that once she has got with Erna Solberg and Right on a massive increase in the use of oil money, that money should go to receive thousands of people, who the Progress Party itself fears will lead to what they call the sneaking up of Norway. But it is very good for those people who are fleeing from war and distress, and who need our protection. We know that the Minister of Finance will soon make an additional proposal on the financing of the refugee crisis, and that raises the question: does it mean that the Minister of Finance no longer stands at his invitation to Norwegian municipalities to say no to receiving refugees to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e252	I told the Stortinget in connection with the review of the revised budget that the government would follow up on the decision taken by the Stortinget. We have done that, it is in the state budget for 2016. But I can also confirm that the party leader in the Progress Party will continue to talk about the Advance Party's policy. This also applies to the need for a strict and fair asylum and immigration policy, which is not least up-to-date in the current situation. I have absolutely no reason to be bitter. I am very pleased with what the government has presented. It responds to many of the major challenges facing the Norwegian economy, and I have also registered that it has been well received. With regard to the additional number and the handling of asylum inflows to Norway, much of us will be required. It's going to require that we get better at integration, which makes people more able to support themselves than they do today. It will require faster returns — enforcement — of people who are not allowed to stay in Norway, and it will not least require urgent action. The question is whether SV will be involved in tightening measures in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e264	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e267	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Jan Tore Sanner. In the draft budget for 2016, the government proposes to re-transfer the tax collection function from the municipalities to the state. The Christian People's Party is as strong against this now as we were the last time the government proposed it. However, my question today is on the device, because in a draft budget we can read that 630 million. kr is proposed to be deducted from the income of municipalities and shall be transferred to the tax rate in this context. Have you taken into account the different organisation of tax and economic units in the municipalities when calculating the size of the plot? We now get reactions from the municipalities – at the latest yesterday, from municipalities in Jären, which point out that the proposed extraction is much higher than what they actually pay and book for the tax collection function. We also received a message yesterday that in Kristiansand it is proposed to draw 17 million. kr, stating that they have a net cost of 10 million. kr. How did you calculate the amount of 630 million? Do you really want to delete this item? We need to be sure that the numerical basis proposed is consistent with reality. I hope the Council of State can help clarify that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e278	The proposal to state the tax collection function is linked to the desire to get stronger professional environments and to ensure that we also fight financial crime in an even more effective way. This is also not a matter of local political judgement, this is a typical state task. We have also been well-documented that there is a significant efficiency potential by implementing a governmentisation of the tax collection functions. The government has also placed considerable emphasis on having a good rural profile on the proposal we have submitted. The number of jobs in Oslo will be reduced, while Sogn and Fjordane will maintain the number they have. As regards the way this is calculated in the budget, both the Ministry of Finance and my Ministry are happy to provide the information obtained in the hearings. I would like to invite the representative, Mr Tuskedal, to forward the examples that have come, and then our departments will ensure the quality of the figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e287	I thank you for that, and we will do that, because it feels unreasonable if the draw exceeds the real costs in that regard. We know that tax collection is often the same unit in a municipality, where they charge fees for VAR services, kindergartens, cultural schools, etc. So the municipalities have often co-located this competence. It also applies to the accounting system. There you sit with a touch of fingertips for the inhabitants of the municipality. Can the Council of State see that a professional environment is at risk of being harmed by shifting the tax collection function?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e296	For many years, there has been a centralisation of the tax collection function, where municipalities have joined forces to create stronger professional environments, and it is still a challenge in some municipalities that professional environments become too small and too vulnerable. It is our overall assessment that we will have a more effective tax collection and stronger professional environments. In addition, when we ensure that there is a good rural profile on this change, I have no problem as a municipal minister standing behind the proposal that the government has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e301	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Hans Fredrik Gruvan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e304	The intention of the local reform has been to strengthen the primary municipalities through, inter alia: to give them more tasks. How does the Council of State think that the transfer of the chemical function from the municipality to the state is consistent with the intention of the municipal reform to make the municipalities more robust and give them more tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e311	Let me first confirm that an important purpose of the community reform is to create stronger professional environments in order to give our citizens and businesses better opportunities, and not least to have a structure adapted to today's and tomorrow's tasks. It is not the tax collection function that contributes to strengthening local democracy. What helps to strengthen local democracy is that we reduce state detail management. Over several decades, the detail management has increased. We reduce state detail management, and it gives local democracy greater power and more responsibility. Let me just draw out the changes we've made in land management, where municipalities have gained considerably greater power and influence. It is welcomed by local politicians from the Central Party, the Workers' Party and, of course, also from the bourgeois parties. We have suggested moving many tasks to the municipalities: dental health, rehabilitation, child protection, we now have our own assessment of. Several tasks will be moved to municipalities, and local policies will provide more content.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e318	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e321	We have also had consultation on this. There it was stated by the Kemnerbundet that it is stated here that it is the municipalities that are going to take the savings from these tax collectors' movements, and that the municipalities will lose money because the extraction is larger than what you – in a way – serve. In addition, the loss of expertise and important tools for good financial management. So what I'm asking is, can the Council of State say what has changed on this issue since the majority in June decided not to transfer this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e326	The majority of the population had more questions that they wanted the government to look at. The government has done that, and we believe that this is a good proposal, not least because it can help to strengthen the local economy. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, municipalities have received a larger real space for action than they had in the previous three, red-green years. That is also why local politicians, rapporteurs and advisers are giving very good examples of the proposal we have put forward. We have carried out meetings in all municipalities, and the feedback from the councillors and local politicians is that the government's proposal for the municipalities is a good one, giving room for action to carry out the tasks for which they are responsible and to strengthen welfare services in important areas. But it is the case in Kommune-Norge – which is also national – that priority needs to be given and made more effective in order to achieve what you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e332	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e335	The acquisition by the State of current employees at the municipal tax offices shall be carried out in accordance with the rules governing the transfer of activities, i.e. all of today's 1,400 employees shall be transferred to the tax rate. In the Ministry of Finance’s presentation to the budget, it states that savings will be made already in 2016 of more than 200 million. kr, and that it is to be increased to 356 million. kr, with full year-on-year effect for 2017. Savings are based on 450 large-scale annual works. How can the State tax rate achieve savings already in the first year of 200 million? kr, where it is simultaneously responsible for the financing and employment of all of the 450 surplus annual works?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e342	Let me just first do a little observation. In the first round of the Minister of Finance, there were several from the opposition who called for measures to improve efficiency. Several questions are about how we can use national funds more effectively in order not to increase the use of oil money more than is necessary. This is a concrete proposal on how to ensure good services to citizens and businesses, how to maintain a good rural profile, and how to take out an efficiency potential that means that we can strengthen the local economy. It is well documented that here we can operate more efficiently, here we can ensure our citizens good services. I am amazed that parties that are otherwise so busy spending more money are not willing to see how they can also operate more efficiently in the state and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e347	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e350	There are two paradoxes with regard to kemnersaka. We're now in a community reform that doesn't exactly have wind in the sails. In this situation, the government's answer is to take away a task from the municipalities, when it should have used the forces to ask what tasks the municipalities might have in addition to what the Stortinge have put into the reform – instead of starting at the other end. In addition, I am fascinated by the practice of the clock, which the Minister of Finance has recently made known in reply to me instead, that the state should be such a much more efficient service provider than the municipalities. Without mentioning practical examples, the rule is not necessarily the same in some other constitutional reforms. I'm afraid that the winnings can quickly go into the spin, and so, and then I'll just sit back with the bill. So is the Minister agreed that we should have used the Stortinget to discuss what we can now contribute to getting new enthusiasm into the community reform? Shares the Minister of Finance say the belief that the state... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e359	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e362	I can confirm that the entire government is working to strengthen local democracy and the real political space of local politicians. The denominator is not part of the room for action of local policy; it is tax collection. We work very well with the Left and Christian People's Party on proposals for tasks that can be transferred to the municipalities. The size covered it before the summer, and we agreed on the largest overall transfer of tasks to the municipalities that have ever been carried out. We are now working to clarify how this can be done, and this will help to improve the provision of services to local authorities and to increase the scope for local policy action. So I appreciate the impatience of the Left and the perseverance of the Left as regards the belief in larger and stronger municipalities that can provide better services to the citizens, and then we have a common responsibility to ensure that there is less state detail management and increased room for action for the municipalities and local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e367	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e370	If the municipalities are to have a larger room for action, it is not what they need now, more tasks that are not fully financed by the state, and that the state is taking away from those tasks that they are doing well today, and that – as the Kennener Association said when they were in consultation with the Municipal Committee in Stortinget – we will lose 2-3 billion. kr because the tax collection in the municipalities is better than in the state. It's possible to take out the pieces that are very complicated, and centralize them, if that's what's needed. This is more about the fact that the government has a very strong belief that centralisation and what is big and collective are good. Then it is very strange that you should simultaneously decentralize tasks that the state is doing well today, for example. habilitation of people with developmental disabilities, aids to people with disabilities and long-term work – which are schemes that need to be equal across the country – without following government-designated money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e377	The latter is wrong, because when the municipalities get more tasks – and I think it is important – the municipalities can offer a more comprehensive offer to the residents. There is no reason for dental health to lie in the county, which is responsible for county roads and public transport. Tannhelsen belongs with the school health service and the community health service. The municipalities are closer to the population and can provide citizens with a wider range of services. There is an important background for the community reform and why we want to move tasks to the municipalities. Then, of course, when you move tasks to the municipalities and strengthen local democracy, it also has to keep up with money. Yesterday we had a debate in Stortinget about voting in municipal elections, and a review tone was that local elections mean too little. We want the local elections to mean more. Then we also have to give the municipalities greater scope for action and more real political power. The denominator function is not part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e384	We're going to the next main question -- the president thinks the Council of State Sanner can sit down. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e388	The leader of the Progress Party has enormous confidence in state bureaucracy and willingness to centralize. People elected around all the municipalities of the country, from Oslo to Lødingen, have said no to the government of the tax offices. But it's not just local elected representatives who have done it. We in Stortinget also said by a large majority just before the summer no to centralization. The majority of the population will have jobs all around the country, near where people live. But Finance Minister Jensen of the Progress Party does not give in. Large centralized state units are the answer. The answer is to go from 288 offices near where people live, to 33 state mastodons on the tax side. I think it's a little strange, when the Stortinget so clearly said no to the bill on centralisation just before the summer, and we've heard that both the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the SV today are equally clear on their no, that Finance Minister Jensen is fighting for more state bureaucracy. It seems in a way as if she has displaced the Stortinget. I understand that Siv Jensen has replaced the municipal elections, because it did not go all the way either. So my question to Minister of Finance Jensen is, is this a desire for a new defeat from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e395	I may not be so surprised that the Center Party continues its resistance to change. But it's absolutely necessary to make changes in a society that's constantly changing character, and that requires us to have a better problem solution. We are facing some rather significant challenges related to tasks that are currently being solved through tax collection – not least the fight against black work and economic crime. In fact, I believe that this reform is not a centralisation reform, but a regionalisation reform, a reform aimed at creating stronger professional environments regionally, which will enable us – to a far greater extent than today – to exercise effective employer control, which is one of the most important tools available to tax authorities to detect financial crime, in more enterprises than is currently possible. I have been in Stortinget and answered questions about how we can better implement measures and instruments in the future precisely to combat economic crime and undeclared work, and one of the good ones – let's say – the weapons we have to do it is now going to the Center Party to fight against it. I wonder. It is therefore beyond doubt that the control of employers is weak and almost not present in a significant number of today's municipalities. By finding a better way to organise this – regionalising the problem – we get stronger professional environments, which will be much more able to do the job in collaboration with other professional authorities, and in addition we achieve the good effect called efficiency gains, which enables us to free up resources for other and important services in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e404	When the Right, with the support of the Advance Party, had the management of Oslo, they had a hearing opinion on the centralization of the chemical offices. They said it was a great advantage that the chemist could cooperate with the city's tax authorities and work closely together to expose black work and crime. So I fundamentally disagree with the Minister of Finance that when someone is going to remove the chemist from the other local business, they get a better local overview. Rather, on the contrary – it’s a huge advantage that you have people with local skills, who know the other businesses in your municipality, who can go targeted and take action, and where you almost have control of 5 pst. by all employers. Then there's one more thing that's very, very strange. When the bulk of the population is so clear, why does Siv Jensen choose to drive on? It's been set at 120 million. kr for this process in the revised national budget. Are the 120 million taxpayers spent on a process that Siv Jensen needs to know that she does not get a majority in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e411	No money is spent until they have a decision behind them in Stortinget. This has been presented as an integral part of the state budget, and the Stortinget is now getting to grips with the task of adopting it. In the context of the review of the revised budget, there were questions from the Stortinget, among others. the business transfer transaction. The various questions that were raised have been answered by the government in the state budget for 2016, and we believe that in this way, we can confirm the unanswered questions that Stortinget thought lay there when the revised budget was discussed. But then I want to challenge Battle violence back: when 81,5 pst. by the municipalities today spend less than one annual work on the control of employers, while eleven municipalities have not carried out a single check at all, how can it be said that the work against undeclared work is well-functioning in all the municipalities of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e420	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e423	My question goes to the Council of State Sanner, so he can be allowed to come back! ‘More power and authority of the municipalities’ is the main title of the task message. ‘Over time, progress has been towards more detailed governance [[...]] it is further stated in the task report from the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. The government has justified the municipal reform with a desire to give municipalities more and more tasks. When the task message was processed, these task transfers were put on hold pending new investigations. The biggest and most offensive task reform the government chooses to implement is to take the tax collection function from the municipalities and transfer it to the state. 1 400 jobs want to be removed from town halls by the Council of State. This represents important municipal competence, which in municipalities is part of a set of tasks to be continued as municipal authorities. Does the State Council believe that the proposal to state the tax collection function is consistent with the intentions of the municipal reform to strengthen the municipal task portfolio at the expense of the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e439	I guess I answered that question in the previous round we were through. I believe that it makes sense and correct the approach we are now taking, where we are getting stronger regional environments that are more able to combat black work, and where we can also gain an efficiency gain such as: can be used to strengthen the local government sector. I think that makes sense, and I think that's right, and I'm amazed that that question is asked over and over again. Then it is not right that we have put the tasks to the municipalities on hold – rather on the contrary. What we do, among other things, has ensured that local authorities have been given greater access to land issues. If there is something the rapporteurs and local politicians of the Central Party have requested, there is less detailed government management in land matters. That's where we deliver. Where the previous regime overestimated the municipalities in 70 p.m. of the cases, we give the municipality right in at least 60 pst. of the cases. It's an important step. In addition, the service tasks will be presented to Stortinget in spring 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e446	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e449	Does the Council of State understand that the logic does not bear when the government of the municipal reform is going to carry out tasks for the municipalities, but in practice chooses to relieve them of tasks? There are tasks that municipalities are doing well today, and it is good competence to have in Kommune-Norway. The question is whether the Council of State understands that the argument about several tasks for the municipalities is no longer pending when he now actually proposes to remove the tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e454	At least I understand that the Workers' Party does not understand it! I think it makes sense, and I think it makes sense, because it is linked to what tasks should be local. There are tasks where local politicians can also have real political influence. As far as tax collection is concerned, it is based on tax decisions in Stortinget. This is a purely tax collection function, which we believe can be strengthened through regionalisation – stronger trade unions, which can combat undeclared work – and in addition, we can draw an efficiency gain. I must say that I am rather surprised that the Workers' Party does not understand it. With regard to other tasks that can help strengthen local democracy, I would like to have a dialogue with the Workers' Party on how we can do it, both by moving tasks to the municipalities and not least by reducing state detail management. Because it is something that hampers local democracy, it is when we, as national politicians, are to steer local policy in detail. We must give local politicians greater real political space for action, and there I would like to cooperate with the Labour Party too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e465	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e469	Several have pointed out that this is also a question of work of competence and not least of the professional environment, which has been agreed by the Council of State and the undersigned in the past. What surprises me is about the mantra that I thought we agreed, that we shouldn't move things up, but we were going to move things down. For me, it may seem that the Right has now made a quantum leap by many ways that they are on the trail of what has been the policy of the Workers' Party for many, many decades, that a desire for an increasingly centralised state. Is it such that the Right now wants to take the clothes to the Workers' Party while these baths, just to get a centralizing effect, which also the Storting and the Left were crystal clear on last year that we disagreed with? For this is not a lubrication of the municipal reform, which the Council of State Sanner is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e476	The last time this question was up-to-date, it was Per-Christian Foss who was Minister of Finance, so this is not a proposal that only the Workers' Party has been in favour of – I don't know if they've been in favour of it, now they're obviously against it. The last time this was discussed, there was a Right Finance Minister in a bourgeois government where the Left and Christian People's Party were also present. Then this theme was discussed. We're also busy moving state jobs into the regions, and if we look at what we've got now, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in two years, we've moved over 50 pst. more jobs out of Oslo than the red-green government was able to do in four years. We also take action to strengthen the regions by moving state jobs. The last was the Council of Rules, to Hönefoss, but we have also moved important jobs both to Tromsø, to Vadsø and to other regions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e483	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e486	My question is to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance defended the governmentisation of tax collection functions in the fight against financial crime. If the Minister of Finance is concerned about this, it is only to be more enthusiastic about expanding country-by-country reporting, to withdraw state companies and the oil fund from tax havens and not least to prevent cutbacks in Ecocrim, etc. This is about the fact that the Minister of Finance, who is also head of the Progress Party, has more confidence in more state bureaucrats than local tax collectors who know the community, who know the business community, who can make good solutions, and who have a higher collection rate than the government. What has the Minister of Finance understood not by Kommune-Norway in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e495	I believe that this matter is about several things. Yes, it's about what I said instead, namely that by organizing this in stronger regional environments, we can gain more power in our ability to fight economic crime and undeclared work. It is not that the only answer to this is country-by-country reporting, which we have also discussed here in the United Kingdom. It's just a little answer. It is primarily a question of international issues, and it is important in itself, because there is a lot of tax evasion going on in that context. But we also have to start with ourselves and look at how we can do this problem better. This is basically not a task that is a natural municipal task to deal with, because it is about taxpayers being treated in the same way, and these tasks are very much automated. The part of the task that does not work optimally, namely the control of employers, is the main reason why it would be appropriate to make a change in this, and I am surprised that SV also thinks it is a bad idea that resources can be released to others... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e502	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e505	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The decision to connect the major cities of Scandinavia with a high-speed rail network in the future is taken to a large extent today. It's in the years ahead that we're going to invest heavily in an intercity network for the railway, and that's the decisions on the dimensioning we're making, which determine whether this is the start of a high-speed network, or whether the decisions are limiting the same thing. Back in 2009, when examining the national transport plan, the Stortinget assumed that the future railway should be largely built and dimensioned for 250 km/h. This was repeated in several comments in 2013. When we look at what is actually being built, it's still under that dimensioning, whether it's along Mjösa, where it's probably 200 km/h, or if it's over Eidsvoll, where it's probably down 130 km/h – or it's elsewhere. It is really just past Holmestrand for a few kilometers that it is dimensioned for 250 km/h. On 17 October 2014, the Council of State sent a letter to the various departments under his department asking them to review current projects to see how to simplify and save money. In particular, they were asked to address lower, simpler standards for new projects. And we can see that, among other things, The Vestfold track today is planned for lower and simpler standards than that, for example. was the subject of the draft selection inquiry. Railways are built for 100 years. Governments have repeatedly criticised, for example: The working party, at the latest in Day Revy Monday, to under-dimension the construction of new roads. Is not the Council of State concerned that he is doing exactly the same in terms of rail – that we are building too easily in relation to the needs of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e518	Developing good infrastructure that is forward-looking is important, regardless of whether you are talking about road, rail, airport, coast, cycle path – yes, no matter what. What annoys me the most when I travel around and meet the Vegvesen people or local businesses, is when they point to roads that have been built 15 years ago, which have already blown up capacity, and where the bridges across the roads are dimensioned so that one can't just put on one more field. One can't just fix, because one has to rebuild the bridges completely, one has to tear them. There's a lot of money right out of the window. I've been concerned that when we think about infrastructure in the future, we're going to have a trajectory, the dimensioning of bridges and tunnels and other things that make it easy for a single person to increase capacity when the needs come, without having to spend a lot of money changing what's been done before. In terms of rail, we have a budget that has increased by 50 pst. to the Railway Works since the change of government. It is now invested at such a high rate that what we spend most on in the 2016 budget is actually bringing forward new plans. We have come to a bottom-deleted box regarding plans to build a new one. Now we have to increase the planning capacity. In 2012, i.e. the third year out in the last growing period, when we were working on the national transport plan we are now implementing, the planning allocation was 47 million. kr. It actually doesn't do much to realize NTP. In the 2016 budget, we propose appropriations of 1,144 million. kr. This means that the railway works will have a completely different capacity to think in the long term, to think in full, and to make sure that you get the right dimensioning. I am concerned that we will get good railways in and out of the cities of Norway. The main objective is to make commuter traffic work. The second main objective is to improve rail freight traffic. Then we work closely with our neighbouring countries to ensure that we get better contact on the railways towards Stockholm, Gothenburg and Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e531	I fully agree that we have to plan more, but we also have to plan in such a way that we avoid getting the piece and sharing the expansion that we have today. The question then arises: will the Council of State do the same as he wishes in terms of road, namely to be given a clear responsibility? The new Directorate for Railways must be given a clear responsibility where one plans the entire route from A to B, from city to city – decides what dimension this should have – in order to plan the details based on the dimension that one assumes. It's the overall planning that's missing, and that makes what we're doing today, can hang together and build up the opportunities we're seeing in 10–20–30 years. Then we have to have a high-speed network. As we are doing this today, we are limiting the possibilities that lie ahead, and it adds up to a system for the railway for the future that becomes just as the Council of State describes it for the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e538	Thinking long-term and planning all the routes and entire sections is important and some of what we add up to in the appropriations decisions that the Stortinget has done, in good cooperation with the government and the Left and Christian People's Party. So we've greatly increased the appropriations for planning. The important thing for me is not necessarily how much money you spend on planning, designing and building. The most important thing is that the total cost of the project is minimised, while the offer is made by a creator, it is best to get a maximum currency for the money. There the railway does a fantastic job now, I think. They have gone through many projects, not to reduce capacity, but to implement them in a better and simpler way to get more money back. One of the maintenance projects they should have carried out in 2014 in Suburb for 120 million. kr, they chose to postpone by one year and implemented it at 60 million. This is not the case. One gets the same functionality, but one gets to use the workforce better, one gets to prepare traffic solutions better, and then we get twice as much back for the money. It also has to be part of the job that both big business and government do when we're going to build more railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e545	Siri Engesetzh – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e549	The council has pointed out that some of the reasons for lower railway allocation this year than last year were that the previous government has granted very little money for planning. The left has pointed out many important measures, such as new turning-points in Asker and other fast-building measures, which do not have the long lead-time. Of course, the Council of State is well aware that the Storting cannot deal with, in the context of NTP, measures that are not sufficiently investigated. KVU Oslo-Navet comes with his recommendation in a few weeks; it is very late. These low-hanging possibilities will rapidly increase capacity, e.g.: in Asker, Berum and around it, are referred to in KVU Oslo-Navet?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e554	KVU Oslo-Navet is primarily a collaboration between the Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Router to see how to create an Oslo city where the need for a car becomes less because people have to meet their transport needs with public transport. It's an invitation to the next Oslo City Council not to put it on ice too, but on the contrary to implement it. With regard to railway appropriations, it is true that there is a slight decrease in the budget for 2016, simply because the Railway Agency says that they do not have any more projects that they can implement. But within the budget available, we're increasing planning appropriations by 0.5 billion. kr just to try to speed up projects that are in the loop, but that with the NTP that the red-greens had, had come out much further in time. We have increased the maintenance appropriations by 1 billion. kr. We are accelerating work on new signalling systems by 0.5 billion. kr. It is also important to look at freight terminals. What can we do there to make sure that they are even better rusted to take more goods from road to rail? There are many smaller projects that have been accelerated, but in the case of the large projects, for example: The bet on intercity to Moss and further down towards Skien and up to Lillehammer, it is unfortunately still a little lead time before they can put the spade in the earth. [[The President cut off]] But we're working for...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e561	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e564	Getting the best possible rail offer is at the heart of the national transport plan presented by the government of Stoltenberg II, which the Council of State is now fully implementing. But I noticed that the Council of State did not answer the question of whether one is planning for 250 km/h for trains, because having a fast train is also part of the best possible rail offer. So I want to give the council the opportunity to answer that question. But I have an additional question. It's about the infrastructure that's going to run on the rails. Next year, it is proposed to provide NSB with residual value hedges of 1 550 million. NOK for the acquisition of 26 new train sets. My question will then be: Will the Council at least ensure that the NSB buys trains that can run for 250 km/h, so that they can at least run on the rails that allow it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e571	There is a lot in the national transport plan that all the parties on Stortinget agree on. But one of the things the government and – I am quite sure – the Christian People's Party and the Left do not agree with in terms of the national transport plan is to follow it as the red-green plan it does. If we were to do that, we would have to cut the rail budget by 2.5 billion in the 2016 budget. kr. I think that would be completely irresponsible and completely pointless. We will implement what we agree on in the National Transport Plan – and everything else we think needs to be added. It is good that the representative mentioned that more trains are now being purchased than planned. The tram will have new train sets in a few years – for the first time since 1952. I think that's something I'll be loved for. The same is true of the Gjøvik track. It's about making sure that we get the best possible closure of the traffic. Much of what we are building now is about developing local traffic towards Oslo. Then one also has to look at the distance between stations and build an infrastructure that allows one to get fast acceleration and keep pace. But here it's not that one necessarily comes up to 250 km/h and then down again – here one has to look at how one gets the most back for the money, so that a... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e580	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e583	Before the summer, the Storting adopted an offensive railway reform to renew and improve rail services in Norway. It has proved to be a cross-political willingness to bet on trains as an important collective offer in Norway. There is no doubt that the railway is the most powerful, land-efficient and environmentally friendly collective offer we have. When will we be able to note the consequences of the recently adopted rail reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e588	Railways are about making sure there is enough money to invest in infrastructure. After two NTPs in which the maintenance seat has doubled, this government and this majority – which also represents the representative of Gruvan – have gone far beyond what was planned in the national transport plan: we start to cut the maintenance seat run. It would have grown further if we were to follow the red-green plan – we cut it. Then it's important that you also look at how you organize it. It's not just about money, it's about making sure you have a clear division of responsibilities. There's the Directorate of Railways, which we're going to set up, the most important thing, where we take some tasks from the NSB, some from the Ministry of Transport, and pass on a part from the Railway Agency – collecting it so that one has one budget, one item of revenue and expenditure, one place where decisions are made. It's very important. One will see some decisions taken during 2016, but one will not necessarily see the physical changes immediately. It's the strategic, long-term decisions that will benefit the railway in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e597	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e600	Of course, route speed is important. It's also important to have good regularity, not least in terms of the goods situation. I registered that the Council of State did not respond very specifically if he wanted 250 km/h and what was going on about it. But one question that I think is also important is what to do to get up the speed also for existing distances, both where there are commuters and where there are goods. Can the Council of State also elaborate that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e605	Just to be clear: of course, we base the professional assessments of the Railway Agency when we're going to dimension for speed, and then 250 km/h is what you often talk about. And then it's also important that if you want speed, you have to make sure that there are acceleration possibilities, so that the train can use that speed. There's no point in building a 250 km/h path if there's a local train that's going to go there, which stops very often. We see that in the Folloban tunnel, which is made for speed: there we have just experienced that the Workers' Party wants a rematch and wants to have a station in the middle of the tunnel, which means that one does not get to use that speed, and that costs the project with billions of dollars. So here there should be a relationship between what you're asking for and what you're delivering. In the case of existing lines where one is not going to build again in some years, we have increased the focus on maintenance just because predictability, knowing that the system is working, that one has sufficient power supply to make the electric motors work and can give maximum power, it has to be in place. On the Gjøvik track, we're going to upgrade this, precisely because you also need to have better infrastructure around to have both speed and capacity on that track when you get new trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e615	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e618	One of the reasons why the speed will be low, and also that our road system will be too small and broken, is that there is too much freight traffic on the roads. It is then important to have long distances in order to transport goods, so a national strategy for goods on the road is needed if that is to be feasible. In the NTP as presented by the red-green government, they had decided to initiate formal planning processes for electrification, among others. by the Røros and Solørbahnen, which would in practice provide double-tracks between the central east and central and northern Norway – one trail in the Gudbrand valley and one trail in the Østerdalen. By creating a terminal in the Kongsvinger area, you would also be able to relieve the costs of the Alnabru terminal. When this was dealt with in Stortinget, everyone agreed, except the Advance Party. But will the Progress Party Council now initiate the formal planning process so that we can get power on the Røros and Solørbahn?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e627	I believe that both the reforms we have put forward and the additional appropriations we have put forward on the railway show that not only the Progress Party, but the whole new majority in the Grand Duchy will be more committed to rail than what one put up to. What's the challenge in goods when we talk both to the Railway Agency and to business is not necessarily the speed of freight trains, but that's predictability. When we meet logistics companies, they say that they like to use rail to a greater extent than today, but as long as there are so many delays and cancellations due to poor infrastructure, they prefer trucks. This should have been something we grabbed too many years ago. So instead, we see that in 2005 the total maintenance of the railway was 9,5 billion. kr. In 2013, it was 18 billion. kr. So one went wrong for eight years, which made the predictability of the material worse and worse. Today's majority have taken hold of this, and the business community at the Transport & Logistics conference at Gardermoen yesterday said that we are finally beginning to see results, finally we are beginning to trust this, and we also see that there is now growth of goods on the railway again. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e636	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e639	I have noticed that the Minister for Transport believes that people taking a taxi are not worthy to participate in debates on urban development in Oslo, but I took a bus today, and therefore I would prefer to ask the Minister for Transport a question about E18. The new urban council declaration between SV, the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party in Oslo states that: «the physical road capacity of E18 in the West Corridor cannot be increased. Design, regulation and land use works which are built up as road capacity increases must be stopped». There's a statement SV is satisfied with. If we are to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement on reduced emissions and provide clean and safe air for all citizens, the metropolitan region does not need any more roadway, it needs greater accessibility for public transport. However, just before the City Council declaration was presented, the Minister of Transport expressed his opinion on this and said that he ‘has little faith in the fact that the cooperation parties in Oslo will be able to stop or re-do the current project’, and stated that he ‘will ‘want the Vegvesen to continue his work as before’. The new city council can't be a show-stopper, so I told the council. But now it is true that there will not be so much show without Oslo being included, as this is a project that affects the Municipality of Oslo very much, and it is worth remembering that the Swedish Road Administration has underlined the need for agreement between the different parties in this project in order to be able to move on with toll financing. What I'm asking about, in the light of the Council's opinions, is whether it has become the policy of the Progress Party and this government to push through toll-funded road projects, regardless of localisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e657	Let me first say that I think it's very good that people travel collectively, and yes, this government believes that taxi is also part of the collective solution. But I'm pretty sure when someone in the climate agreement says that people are going to solve their transport needs by traveling collectively, walking or cycling, it's not every man's taxi that lies in that solution. That's what I pointed out, if the approach here is that no one is going to drive a private car, but the Green Party says that taxis are solving this, then we're going to need an incredibly much more capacity on the E18 both in and out of Oslo. That's why I'd rather bet on a collective, bus, train and bike path. And that's what this government is doing. The allocations from the previous government to Oslo when it applied collectively in 2012 and 2013 were 180 million. Total kr. In the two budgets that have been adopted with today's four parties, we have allocated 715 million. kr, i.e. almost quadrupled Oslo's financial framework from the state to bet on collectively. In addition, over the budget framework, there are now about 100 more train departures from Oslo S every day. This makes more people have a good alternative collective offer that makes the car less interesting. At the same time, it is also important to provide for the thousands of people already in queue. So although there is no growth in car traffic, there are already large, long queues in place, and I also want to solve them so that we get a better flow of traffic with the cars that are, and make sure that more trucks and crafts cars get in place quickly instead of standing in line. We have to do that, and then it's about building a better path, a better way with better solutions. Then there's a fact, whether Oslo's new city government likes it or not, that the whole physical project at E18 is in Akershus, and I'm not familiar with the city government in Oslo having any authority to decide what Akershu's county council is to adopt. That's why it's so important to get this debate on track and not let it be governed by dogmas and wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e666	I am also for taxis, and therefore I promise that when Solvik-Olsen is back in opposition and takes a taxi from Dagsnytt 18 because he no longer has a government car, I will not hound or criticize him for it. The question about Solvik-Olsen really means what he said to the NRK in connection with the City Council statement, namely that he expects the Vegvesenet to continue to work with the plans that exist, without taking into account what the Municipality of Oslo thinks. Oslopacket 3 is to be negotiated. There is a financing solution that depends on agreement between the parties. My question is simply: does the Council of State think that the work of the Vegvesen should continue as if nothing had happened, or does the government intend to engage in dialogue with the new City Council and show respect for the election results that Oslo's citizens have provided, and that have given the new City Council we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e673	I will admit that I both ride bicycles and drive a private car to Dagsnytt 18, and I will do that no matter what role I have. But I will never sit in New Year's Eve 18 and tell everyone else to stop driving a car. It was in that context that I pointed out that one cannot point the index finger at most people at the same time that one chooses to take the taxi instead of going five minutes and take the T-course there a shell. So that was the relationship between life and learning I wanted to point out with it. It is true that Oslopackak 3, as it stands today, is a cooperation project between the Stortinget and the government, i.e. the state, on the one hand, and Akershus and Oslo – three units working together. I hope we get to that cooperation also further. However, I find that even the Workers' Party in Stortinget says that they add up that we still have to allocate money to land acquisitions on this route. They stand by the agreement that has been made. Akershus is very clear that they expect this agreement to be continued. There is a small majority in Oslo who now suddenly want to renegotiate this, but not even the Workers' Party's own big group is behind the demands of the Oslo Workers' Party. That is why it is natural to think that everyone should be listened to, but the majority should still decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e682	It opens for follow-up questions - first Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e685	Last year, Oslo City Council stated that the E18 project had to be slimmed down significantly, and it is a very clear signal when Oslo's new government says that the physical road capacity on the E18 West Corridor should not be increased. Some try to reduce the significance of this by claiming that as long as there are no more cars coming into the Oslo center, there can be so much highway built only a hurricane in Akershus. Of course it's not like that. Akershus is no free space for the climate agreement. The aim of the climate agreement is that the growth of passenger transport in our urban areas should be marked by collective, bicycle and gangways, and also by the E18 West Corridor in Akershus. If one builds more physical road capacity, traffic will increase. The only way to prevent the increase is by means of increased tolls, a powerful pricing of running on the road. I wonder, what is the Minister for Transport's plan to prevent traffic growth at E18? Should he avoid increased road capacity, or shall he prevent traffic growth through increased tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e692	In my first answer I showed everything we're already doing, because we're concerned that there should be less need to drive in and to Oslo, and more attractive to travel collectively. Therefore, we have quadrupled the allocation to Oslo in terms of collective investment, so there are 100 more train departures, and therefore we propose to grant 50 pst in the 2016 budget. more on the cycle path – just to give people alternatives. One of the things we've also spent a lot of time on, is getting this done by building out 4G coverage and mobile coverage along collective tracks, just to make it even more attractive for commuters to be on board trains and buses, by being able to spend the time on what they want, instead of sitting and chaining, because right away a chain when a traveler collectively, many will think: Had I had a car, I could choose a little more myself. It is also important to note that the debate that has taken place in relation to projects has often been too expensive. I fully agree that we are going to work to get this down in terms of price, but when it comes to talking about what the project actually involves, the Labour Party has said locally that this is a 16-field motorway project. We are nowhere near 16 fields, so we have said that we need to have a discussion about what the project is actually about, not just election campaign rhetoric – the election campaign is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e700	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e703	Car engaged. That is what we see when the new Oslo urban government has put forward an ambitious plan to improve air quality and better measures for public transport and accessibility in its city. But the debate is raging, and the characteristics are loose. We have heard about the taxi operation to and from the studio, but some also describe what is in the Oslo urban government statement, such as building a Berlin wall – it was the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, head of the transport committee, who did – while the representative Ola Elvestuen said yesterday at the big Transport & Logistics conference that this is a storm in a water glass. I want to follow up on the questions of the Light Hill, because the question is: Does the Council of State recognise the elected representatives of Oslo as a partner in this large and complex project, and will he listen to them and participate in the negotiations, or does the Council of State – as the chairman of the Transport Committee – already decide that there is a government regulatory plan to be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e710	To the question, it's obvious that they have the right to mean something, and they'll be an equivalent partner with everyone else who's going to discuss this. My wish is to find an agreement that everyone is behind, because then it is much easier to implement projects. There's no one who's earned that things are trodden through, but here there's someone who's got power, and who's now going to go away from concluded agreements. But there too the city government cracks. The mayor says that he is at the same time as the agreement. The Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party say it no longer applies. Then, of course, the government must also agree on what they actually want. It would also be interesting if the Workers' Party could say what they want. The working party stands with one foot on each side and is populists here instead of being involved and taking responsibility – unfortunately. The climate agreement is to be implemented, and we are to ensure that we reduce emissions into cities. But the point here is that one also has to dare from the environmental movement to be a little bit more optimistic about what we're going to get. Seeing the increased use of electric cars and hybrid cars means that the climate perspective, which one wants to do something about in Oslo City, will be solved in a car generation. Should we then sit with an infrastructure that is several generations old, instead of expanding infrastructure... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e719	That's it. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e724	In these days, many thousands of new people elected throughout the country are taking on important work in their communities. Everyone has ambitions on behalf of their municipalities to improve the quality of kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly, for the benefit of their citizens. Kindergartens shall be built and upgraded, climate solutions shall be available locally and refugees shall be included. The 'Two Do' list is long, and government and accumulation have not helped to dampen expectations. Unfortunately, neither local politicians nor their ambitions receive special assistance from the government and the Sanner Council. Following a major tax failure in 2014, which has been marked well into 2015, the government has presented a tight scheme for municipalities in 2016. The old calculator part, Right, has left the calculator to Siv Jensen. Now you leave the local politicians to take the difficult decisions, and they have to use the minus where it should be positive. That's what people will notice. The real space for action for municipalities next year is 0.5 billion. kr after the bills and earmarked bets have been paid. When the government sets a new record in oil money use, it should be expected that a heavy effort will be made on the tasks to be solved locally. That's not happening. So far, the government has prioritised 22 billion. kr in tax cut – mostly for those who have the most from before, and crown pieces for the others. Then my question to the municipal minister is: why is tax cuts so infinitely more important to the government than doing absolutely necessary education, care and other local welfare tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e735	I thank you for the question. One of the most important concepts – it was more of a slogan from the former leader of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg – was that we have to create the values before we use them. Therefore, the government is committed to pursuing a forward-looking, forward-looking industrial policy, where we invest in infrastructure, rates of research and industrial innovation, and where we reduce taxes to make working and investing in Norwegian jobs more profitable. It's a policy that works. We see it not least now in North Norway, which has a strong tax growth. Only Troms has a tax growth so far this year of over 8 pst. and a fall in unemployment. Nor is it correct, as the representative Helga Pedersen says, that the municipality layout is so tight. Let me just quote what the rapporteur from the Labour Party, Aina Borch, said in Porsanger: ‘My immediate reaction is that this will make it easier for us in the work we are going to do.’ Or as the counsellor of Moss, Bente Hedum, says: “I have been a councillor for about 12 years now, and I have never been so satisfied with a government budget before.” The government's arrangements for the municipalities next year are well received. The reason why it's well received is that we're making sure that the municipalities get a bigger real space for action next year than what they had in the last few years under red-green rule. Of course, both rapporteurs and local politicians have even higher ambitions. They have. But we have to make sure that there is a scheme that finances the statutory tasks, and that there is a room for action to bet – and we do. Nor is it right that the action space is just 0.5 billion. kr. There is good growth in free income, which gives municipalities the opportunity to invest in well-being for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e754	The Minister of Local Affairs here presents a sense of reality that I hear no one else but he agrees with. The space for action is much more scarce with this government than it was with the previous one. The percentage of average increase in total income with us, the red-green government, was 2.5 pst. per 1 % year – with today’s government it is 1,7 p.m. this year. The same percentage difference can be referred to in respect of the free income. The basic question is: does the government put on the table the money needed to give the necessary education and care for the elderly, which all parties, including the government parties, have promised in the election campaign? The answer to that question is no. And it is reassuring that the oil money tap has now been fully opened, but without the municipal sector, school and elderly care being given their share of the oil money usage. The government does not have the ability to prioritise. It is the local politicians who have to take the difficult priorities. Why is tax cuts most important to the government? I have not yet received an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e761	It is not that tax cuts are the most important. The effort on the municipalities is one of the most important priorities in our budget. The reason why it is one of the most important priorities is precisely that it is about the well-being of its citizens. It's about school, it's about care for the elderly, and it's about how to help those who are struggling with alcohol and health – just to mention something. That's why we're making sure the municipalities get a bigger real space for action next year than what they got in the last three years under red-green rule. This has been documented by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation in response to questions from the Workers' Party. If it is the case that the Workers' Party believes that we are professionally wrong, I ask to have it documented. I also notice that the representative Helga Pedersen asks: Do the municipalities get the money that is needed? Well, some realism we must also have in this debate. I don't remember a single local politician under eight years of age working party rule who said they got the money they needed. Also under red-green rule they had to give priority. They must now too, but we will ensure that the municipalities get a greater real space for action until next year. That's good for well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e773	It opens for follow-up questions – first Stein Erik Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e776	Mr. Sanner listed a few municipalities that had said they were satisfied. There will not be time to list all the municipalities that say they are dissatisfied with the draft state budget. So the message we get from a lot of municipalities is that this is a budget for cutting and even more the introduction of property taxes. That is the reality. So the question is, why have the councils of the municipalities been with and prioritised tax cuts rather than bets in their own field in Kommune-Norway? Why didn't he fight for more money for care and school in his own budget, which had benefited the municipalities? And why does the Minister of Municipal Affairs think that tax cuts to the richest, which are greater than the efforts to share well-being in the municipality of Norway, are a good thing for the welfare of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e782	Because we have to create the values before we can use them. We are in a situation where unemployment is rising. I am amazed that the Workers' Party has not taken it in. We're at a time of uncertainty about how many people have a job tomorrow. We're at a time when there's a need for business change. In that case, we need to better facilitate value creation in Norway in order to secure Norwegian jobs. This is why we have taken action to increase activity, but also to promote long-term migration. It's about a tax reform – and I thought the Workers' Party was too lower for the companies. It's about investing in research and infrastructure – 5 billion. kr more on roads until next year. This is necessary to provide a basis for future well-being. And so it's that we're strengthening the municipal economy for next year. We have now completed meetings in all the counties, and I have not heard the sounds that come from the Workers' Party here today. On the contrary, the review tone is that it is a good arrangement for Kommune-Norge for 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e791	Marit Arnstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e794	I would like to raise a specific issue concerning local economy that may be of concern in the future. All over the country there must now be a large reception for refugees. Many of the empty sites suitable for this are located in small districts around the country. This means, for example: that a municipality such as the Holtål is now to receive 200 refugees, and they already have a population of 2,000. It's demanding. Then it's like Hero and Link, the big contractors here, are making the same demands for the small municipalities as for the large municipalities in terms of services. There may be a heavy burden on the local economy. There must not be a requisition that makes the willingness to establish less reception. The question is, what will the Minister of State do to ensure that there will not be an unmanageable economic problem for the small district municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e803	I believe that is a very good and relevant question. There is no doubt that we are now in a situation that is demanding both for the central authorities to accept, for the municipalities that will eventually settle, and also for the municipalities that have received. That's why we are now working so hard to put in place measures for 2016, which means that we can both make sure that those who come here are accepted in a good and worthwhile way, that we have reception that is manageable, and that it is manageable also for the municipalities. I can promise that in the proposition we're making, we're working closely with the whole of the challenge we're facing, and it's about coming to Norway, receiving and settling. We also meet with small and large municipalities and are in good dialogue on how to ensure a decent and good reception of those who come to Norway and who will live in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e810	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e822	There will be one change in the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list made available to the representatives in that context. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 3, from the representative Lene Vågslid to the Minister for Justice and Security, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e835	‘Openness and transparency are central to citizens’ confidence in the governance of common values by politicians. Contradictory interests may sometimes become difficult to deal with. Not least in matters where one party is commercially strong, as we have seen in Akershus recently in things like Telenor Arena in Bærum and Ikea in Westby. What does the Council of State think can be done politically to strengthen the competence of municipalities to operate in such private and commercial disruptions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e842	It is the municipalities that are responsible for adopting municipal plans under the Planning and Building Act. This also applies to development plans where private developers promote planning proposals or are initiators. The planning process shall provide for broad participation and consultation, so that all interests are identified, and impact assessments are required, so that the impact of the development is elucidated. Stakeholder organisations and other stakeholders have the opportunity to promote their views on draft plans, and this often contributes to better information before a decision is taken. Government and regional bodies shall contribute to the planning process. They may, if necessary, raise objections to draft plans which are not in accordance with national or important regional interests. Where there is an objection that cannot be resolved locally, the plan is adopted by the Ministry. In practice, there will often be conflicting interests between expansion and other interests. The development must then be balanced against the other interests and this balance may be demanding. The municipalities have a great and important responsibility here. I believe that the rules of the Planning and Building Act on participation and investigation provide a good basis for the local government to make reasonable decisions. It is important that municipalities have good competence in planning and building law and planning. This is why the Ministry is constantly working on information and guidance on the law and its use, among others. through the planning.no website and through collections and courses. I can also mention that planning is now an important part of the policy training under the direction of the KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e853	Yes, the Left and the Right agree to put power at the lowest possible level, but then the municipalities have to manage this power properly, not least when we talk about this space of action in the municipalities. The County recently assigned the community to the Telenor Arena case. The municipality of Bærum then replied by taking political control of the control committee, which, as was well known, was sufficient to bring the matter up for consultation without the majority deciding it. Euforum then replied by appeal to the Ministry of Local Affairs, where it is now. Abuse of the Law on Planning and Buildings must be avoided. In Westby, a private option agreement was concluded between landowner and builder, thereby circumventing the concession law and avoiding an alternative survey of cultivated land. I hope the Mayor sees that it is necessary to strengthen this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e862	Let me just first say that with regard to the Telenor Arena case, I don't have the opportunity to comment on it. Just because it is at the discretion of the ministry, I cannot give any views until the matter is settled. I hope not that the representative believes that the Planning and Building Act was abused, because if it is the case that the representative believes that the Planning and Building Act was abused, it is important that it is documented and made visible. We are not to have any abuse of the Law on Planning and Building. So in such cases at the end, there will be a balance, precisely because there are different interests facing each other. The case in Westby about the establishment of Ikea ended up on my table, and there were various assessments and balances that led us to conclude that Ikea could be built in Westby. So here, both professional assessments have to be carried out, and in many contexts, there is also the seventh and last consideration of different interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e871	You bypass the concession law by creating a private option agreement, because according to the concession law, it is obvious that you have to do an alternative investigation if you see that it is at the expense of one interest – which you have decided here that you want to preserve. In Westby it was about cultivated land, something that this landowner and the builder then avoided. Is it, then, that the Minister of State believes that the legislation is sufficient and that we need to find out that it was circumvented in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e878	I can't see that the code's bypassed. You have to deal with the Planning and Building Act and the requirements that lie there. The matter in Vestby was finally decided by me before Christmas in 2013, if I don't remember completely wrong, and then there are different interests that have stood against each other, and then one must ultimately make an assessment and a balance. But there's something important here, and one is the competence of the municipalities. We place great emphasis on this, and in cooperation with the KS, both courses and orientation are provided in the use of the Planning and Building Act. I believe that in many municipalities there is a need for stronger professional environments and an important reason also for the community reform, more competence in planning and using the Planning and Building Act. So I also believe that the simplification measures we are now implementing in the Planning and Building Act will make it easier to deal with this, because a very complex planning and building law is difficult to deal with. A more predictable law will be simpler for builders, municipalities and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e891	‘The size has legalised the right to user-controlled personal assistance in order to improve the everyday life of people with a high need for assistance. [[BPA]] The government wrote in the bill that the vision is a society where everyone can participate, and where most people have education and work as their goal. The municipality of Bergen has refused to grant BPA to a student for an exchange stay. Does the Council of State consider it fair that students with disabilities do not receive support for a semester abroad, such as is provided to disabled students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e898	The Health and Welfare Act states that the municipality should ensure that all residents of the municipality are provided with the necessary health and care services. So the municipality has a responsibility for everyone who lives in the municipality, regardless of whether they live there or are there in connection with work, studies or vacation trips. If the recipient chooses a longer stay outside its borders, the right to services under the Health and Welfare Services Act will fall away, as the legislator has not required Norwegian municipalities to provide health and care services to persons who choose to stay abroad. This applies regardless of whether the recipient receives services from the ordinary municipal appliance or whether the service is organised as user-led personal assistance. The municipality of Bergen is therefore not obliged to allow students to bring with them user-driven personal assistance at a semester abroad. One of the key features of the BPA scheme is that the user is given the role of supervisor and assumes responsibility for organisation and content according to his own needs. The user can control what the assistant is to do and the times at which the assistance is to be provided, thus significantly increasing the influence of his own life situation. Through the right-holding of the scheme, the government has ensured that far more users have been given the opportunity to decide about their own lives. So I want to stress – and I think it is important to stress it – that although the municipality of Bergen does not have an obligation under the law to give BPA to those who choose to stay abroad, for example. in the context of studies, the municipality of Bergen has full access to do so. We have many examples of municipalities that finance longer stays abroad for their recipients, for example as part of a rehabilitation. This is why there is no obstacle to Bergen choosing the municipality to provide user-driven personal assistance to this user in connection with study stays abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e909	Thank you for a very clear answer. Today, Bergen actually deals with a community initiative on this matter in connection with a student who was refused, and they have practised a strict five-week rule and not a failure to provide BPA with a foreign residence. Now the council says there's no obligation, but there's nothing to prevent the municipality of Bergen from substituting it. It is an information that may also have consequences for other municipalities. My question is that this is a national issue. Of course, we have students in many municipalities. If many municipalities make strict practice, such as Bergen, does the Council of State see the need to clarify this issue to other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e918	In the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we work together with the Directorate of Health on a circular on the understanding and practice of the system of user-driven personal assistance, following the rights attached to it. We'll come back to the contents of that circular when it's presented, and that's hopefully around the turn of the year. Then you'll be able to deal with these kinds of problems. It is also important to stress that I think it is wise that you have a law that does not oblige municipalities to provide health and care services to citizens who for a long time choose to live outside the borders of Norway. It will have quite a big and extensive impact on the municipalities. Then there are other issues that are more limited and that we might be able to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e925	I agree that the municipalities here may have a responsibility for the practice, but in this case, a previous response from the Council of State to me was interpreted as being critical that it should be given BPA abroad. In reply to me it was said that the municipality will ‘come into a very difficult situation if the assistant becomes ill or if there is a disagreement between the user and the assistant’. Thus, questions were asked about the ‘responsibility and control of the scheme’. It has been perceived in the municipality as warning against it. Can the Council of State confirm that the municipality has an opportunity to do so, and would like to say something more about the defence officer in a service that the Council of State has previously problematised?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e937	I believe that there is a difference between what can be defined as health and care services in the traditional sense, for example. concern the provision of health care, which is also covered by the Health Care Act. Then, as also described in that answer, one will have challenges related to the systems we have to ensure the soundness of the services, if the services are provided elsewhere than in the municipality for a longer period of time. The system of personal assistance is not a traditional health service. It's an assistance service. It's the user who's in the main seat in governing and organizing the system. In the proposition where the rights were attached, we have made quite a simple clarification in the border country, where we say that what the user himself can do about healthcare, for example. taking medicines and injecting syringes may also help the assistant without being covered by that legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e953	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-21.ana.ud32e968	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that the last representative in the Chamber does not want the floor until the meeting is over? - The meeting's been cancelled.
