ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e146	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Vosskesen, Kenneth Svendsen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e163	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Trine Skei Grande, Abid Q. Raja and myself to strengthen the legal security and follow-up of people who are exposed to trafficking in human beings in prostitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e168	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the current map is considered, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e184	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e191	Railways play an important role and have to play an important role in our transport system. That is why it is positive that I can now present a unanimous opinion from the Transport Committee, where all parties see the importance of investing on the railway. It is rumored that there will be a matter later today from the government, where in the next debate we will see that we have a little disagreement about the instruments to be used to get a better railway, but we will have that debate later. I think it is very good that all parties in Stortinget now say that local train traffic should be increased. Because it hasn't always been like that. I remember debates in this room where there were parties – especially one party – who would even cut the appropriations for the railway and even order that parts of our network should be dropped. So it's been a wake-up in the last few years, and I think it's very good that parties that used to be lukewarm and even opponents of the railway, now speak hot for the railway. NSB is going very well. In 2014, the company was able to report a record number of passengers, and the company also presented a very good financial result for 2014. Norway's State Railways were established in 1883, which was 132 years ago. The next few weeks and months may determine the fate of the NSB. I'm not sure what's going to happen to the NSB. We will see the matter coming later today, and take the debate on this later in the House. Let me quote a few sentences from the proposal we have to consider today, the 8th proposal from the deposit representatives of the Left. Its name is, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘NSB’s train offer is more punctual than before.’ And... ‘To a greater extent than in the past, regional collective actors shall report on better cooperation with the NSB on route termination.’;» Yes, the NSB is on the right track. Then we should continue on the same road. We should make the railway better. We should make sure that NSB can buy more trains. And we should expand the route offer on the railway. The railway is a complex system where many pieces have to work together. The whole system must function in order for rail traffic to function. When the NSB train was delayed yesterday, or even stopped, it was due to an internal communication system that failed, a system that is therefore part of the railway system infrastructure and outside the responsibility of the NSB. It does not help the operation of the NSB trains if the railway system infrastructure fails. And similarly, it doesn't help that the railway works have everything on their hands if the NSB's train fails. Everything must work in order for rail traffic to function. And good friends and president: that's what our job is -- to enable the NSB and the Railway Agency to drive more trains, to carry more passengers, to carry more goods. That's why we have to maintain the railway we have, and we have to build new railways, new double tracks, new routes, as well as we have to buy more trains and set up more routes. The new basic route model in the Oslo area has been a success. Multiple departures give more passengers. There is a strong growth in rail traffic in the Oslo area. Now there's a train every ten minutes between Asker and Lillestrom. Of course, this means that more people take the train. Building the intercity sections of Halden, Lillehammer and Skien must lead to significantly better route provision throughout the East. On Wednesday, I was at Kongswinger. Railway traffic on Kongswingerban was increased a few years ago. It's been a success. Rail traffic is increasing. On Kongswinger they want even more trains. On Friday, I was at Kongsberg. There they also want more trains and faster trains. There is a great desire in the East and elsewhere in Norway to develop rail traffic. We are on the right track with the proposal that is now being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e225	Although it might have been tempting to get hold of the matter that is coming later today, I will not. But I think yesterday's event clearly shows the need for a clearer interface between the Railway Agency and the NSB. There are five prerequisites that must be present to increase the number of train journeys: capacity, frequency, regularity, access parking and efficient accommodation service. There has been a strong growth in the number of train journeys in recent years. The number of train journeys with NSB has increased in the eastern part by about 15 pst. from 2011 to 2013. This is linked to increased track capacity in the Western region and increased purchases of multiple trains. This has made it possible to significantly increase the frequency. At the same time, the importance of the train as a backbone in the transport system to Oslo has become clearer by the fact that buses that previously brought customers from the outermost regions to the centre are now feeding to a railway station. This increases the capacity of the provider service but is challenging the capacity of the NSB. It was therefore important that last year the Ministry of Transport gave the NSB guarantees for the purchase of another 15 trains in addition to the 66 that are being delivered. But not just in the eastern part of the country has the offer increased. On 14 December 2014, major changes to the route were made to the South and the Trønderbahnen. However, there are several challenges that place clear limits on what can be achieved. There is no room for further increase in the stock base without investments in, inter alia: several or larger deposition areas in the central eastern region. The Railway Agency has been commissioned by the Ministry of Transport to take a closer look at this. There are large ongoing and imminent investment projects that need to be completed before capacity can be increased. The Folloban is running with a control frame of over 24 billion. kr, major expansion projects on the Vestfoldbahnen and Dovrebanen are in progress, the work on the new Ulrikentunnel is in progress, and electrification of the Trunderbahnen is also on the programme. However, smaller investments are also important, such as: platform extensions. If you want to be able to run double trainsets, the platforms need to be extended. It's done on the Jærban, and it's done elsewhere in the country. The major challenge, however, is Oslo-Navet. Today, over a thousand trains pass through Oslo 24 hours a day. It is important – not just for the East, but for the whole country – that capacity is increased here. In this respect, it is important that KVU Oslo-Navet – the concept selection study of transport capacity towards and through Oslo – is delivered in a short time. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of cutting down on accumulated maintenance kits. Regularity is important both for people who are going to work and for goods who are going to a customer at the agreed time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e244	The proposal we have to deal with today is important and necessary if we are to be able to lay the groundwork for more people to travel collectively. The railway represents a unique opportunity to solve today’s and future transport challenges, not least in the major cities. I would particularly like to point out two aspects that I believe are essential in order to make the railway a first choice for as many travellers as possible. In the view of the Christian People's Party, we have had an organisation of the railway that has been characterized by a lack of political vision and, not least, a lack of ability and will for real renewal. One has tried to correct some of the things that have not worked, but has not been willing to take the big steps to create renewal and make the rail offer more attractive. Therefore, we have seen that although there has been a significant increase in money invested in railway maintenance in the last ten years, punctuality has not increased. Instead of reducing the maintenance seat run, the path has been reversed. We need to facilitate a new organization, which can be more holistic and, not least, customer-focused. It is about developing incentive systems that reward and punish, as punctuality increases or decreases, and it has to hit the person who is responsible for the delays. Secondly, several departures, more modern train equipment, more double tracks and a stable infrastructure are some of the things we need to achieve our common goals. This means that the achievement of increased capacity and frequency in local train traffic in the future requires increased means of rail, as well as reorganisation. All batches are satisfied with increased appropriations for maintenance and investment. But at the same time we have to recognize that increased appropriations are not necessarily a measure in themselves. When there is almost a tripling of the maintenance effort without getting more punctuality, something is not working. The aim must be that we really achieve punctuality improvements, which means that more people choose to use trains as a means of delivery, and that we thus contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving our environmental policy objectives. Significant capacity changes have occurred during the current ageing period. We can mention the two-timer frequency on Sørlandsbanen – which on many departures also includes the correspondence with Arendalsbanen – and extended train offer on Trønderbanen, where the train turns on Melhus and Lundamo instead of on Lerkendal. In addition, there is work to strengthen the local train service between Bodø and Rognan. Then we see that increasing traffic growth creates the need for higher capacity in train traffic in the future. This, of course, applies not least in the central eastern region. In order to achieve this, there must be increased investments that also generate growth in the stock park. It is therefore necessary to stress that we need to achieve an increase in frequency and capacity, and that reorganisation must be accompanied by increased investment in materials and equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e261	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for their proposals, and it is gratifying that the proposal from the Left on increased capacity and frequency of local train traffic should be given a majority today. Today the government is also promoting a big message about the rail reform, so things are really going on. However, rail reform must not prevent us from taking important steps to improve infrastructure and supply in the short term. The railway needs both major structural changes and a number of larger and smaller investments to give the railway the role it intends to play in national, regional and local infrastructure, but we cannot wait to increase capacity and frequency of local train traffic until this is completed. It is gratifying that public transport is increasing. Providers of public transport must be able to take care of the increased growth of traffic. The offer must satisfy the customers so that their use continues to increase. There is a need to make use of the opportunities available to more people for better rail services, so that as many as possible can travel easily, safely and environmentally friendly in their everyday lives. The climate agreement has committed itself to reducing traffic growth in metropolitan areas by collective, bicycle and corridors, and in the agreement between the Left, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right, the parties agree to strengthen climate reconciliation. The effort to develop road and public transport is being stepped up in addition to the NTP decision. Together with an effort on bicycles, corridors and bus and track solutions within urban areas, it is necessary, in our view, to make even better use of the railway for passenger transport. There is currently a challenge for the actors in the passenger train market that the frequency and capacity increase of the revision of the timetable in December must come as budgetary leakage only months before the implementation of a new route offer. For increased offer from December 2015, there is an increase in the frequency of Sørlandsbanen, an extension of the route offer on Trønderbahnen and new train sets put into operation on the local train routes in the East. In particular, given that it has been signalled that several actors will be able to operate in the passenger train market in the future, there is a need for greater predictability. On some routes it may be possible to drive a two-way train in order to increase its capacity. The left considers that this needs to be assessed where the infrastructure makes it possible. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important that the railway bet continues. The distances we have must be maintained and developed. Traffic growth needs to be managed, and measures need to be taken to increase capacity and frequency of local trains. Increased use of trains are important climate measures and part of the green shift we are about to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e278	Let me thank the proposers for addressing the theme and for a good proposal. Let me also commend both the proposers and the Christian People's Party for a very good cooperation on rail and transport in general. There has been a strong uplift in the railway area after the government change. Yes, there was also a growth in appropriations in the years before, but now we are actually well ahead of the national transport plan. I record that in the Committee's setting, there are individual parties who say that one is in arrears. So in the case of a railway, we're in the forefront. For the first time in many years, in ten years, we are now reducing the railway's maturity. It was a decay that increased every year despite increased appropriations, because the money was not prioritised to maintain the infrastructure. We're doing that priority. Is there one thing we've learned from all the problems that have been with the railway, where people stay on the platform and wait for trains that don't come, or that are too late, is that the infrastructure must be in order for the railway to work. It's exciting and great to build new sections, and it's also part of what we do, but we have to make sure that what we have works. It's about trust. It's about people being able to dare to use the railway to get to work, and not least get home, if they have a tight schedule where they're going to get to school, kindergarten, etc. Then trust is the most important thing. Therefore, the commitment to maintenance is one of the things I am most proud of that the four parties have combined. So in addition, we're building more railways. We are accelerating a number of small and larger projects. Something as simple as extending the platforms on the Jærbanen makes it possible for us in the rush hour to start with double sets of wagons instead of simple ones. It in itself makes us get it as one suggested in this proposal, namely a better offer in local train traffic. We also said that we should buy more trainsets. In some places, the train sets are obviously too bad. At Vosebanen and Gjøvikbanen, we can't have the sets that are, for a very long time. Elsewhere, it's about increased capacity. In this connection, we also need to build several transfer tracks, because we are actually starting to have a parking problem on the Norwegian railway. There are too few places to park the trains when they are not in use. It shows a little bit about how many new trains are purchased. But we're going to continue – both to build parking lots and to buy trainsets. There have been several things done. Improvements in the NSB's timetable have been made several times — a few years ago, under the previous government, and a new revision was made in 2014. As a result, there are now over 100 more trainsets on the tracks every day, both because one has planned it over time, and because one made it economically possible to do even more than what was planned for almost double the number of departures between Oslo and Stavanger, by extending the shuttle on the Thrønderbahn so you can get with Melhus. All of this makes it possible to reach new markets and make more people want to use NSB's offerings. Coordinating it against local public transport, so that a seamless transition from bus to train and vice versa, is also part of what makes collective provision more attractive. I also want to include a point that goes about how to spend time on board. We have to make sure that it is possible to sit to work, relax or be on social media if you want. Then access to broadband or wireless networks is very important. It's very nice to meet people in Telenor who say that this is what they've been arguing about for 15 years – the telecom companies, the NSB and the Railway Agency – about who's in charge of which place, and how they're supposed to coordinate it. No one has agreed. So we've been able to sort it out for about a year, just by getting the parties down to the same table in the Ministry of Transport, because today's majority wants and sees the need not only for trains, but also for time to be effective. So it gives a better offer to people when they're on board, and releasing time, giving time on board, makes it more interesting in itself to take trains instead of driving a car. We noticed that when we traveled on the country's routes. So representatives of the four parties that now have a majority have traveled on all sections of passenger train transport in just a few days to hit commuters. What they say in many places is that being able to sit down, open the PC and start working makes the time actually work and not lose time. There's a big difference. So increased maintenance, increased investment, more train sets, better platforms, better quality and now, in addition, a reform that makes the responsibility a lot clearer, suggests that what the Left here wants, and as an overall committee stands behind, is something that becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e302	I think the Minister of Transport is doing a lot of good and has a lot of good things on the stairs. I am somewhat uncertain about what we will be presented later today, but as I said, we will take that debate later. It was positive that the minister responded positively to the letter from the committee when – as tradition is here in the house – we sent the representative proposal to the department and asked for feedback. It is positive that the Department and the Council of State say that they want to propose increased capacity and frequency for local train traffic. My question is, When can we imagine an increase in the local train offer? Can we imagine it already in the other cases presented today, we see it in the revised budget, we see it in the government budget presented in the autumn – that is, we get an increase in the route offer for next year – or do we perhaps have to wait for the National Transport Plan when it is presented? So the question is simply: When will the Council of State bring such a case before the Grand Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e311	I responded positively because this is something we are already working on and have worked well with the Left and Christian People's Party for a long time, and I think it is very good to be confirmed in the Stortinget that one has a total accumulation behind him that wants this. One has already seen the results of this. When one gets several departures on the Sørlandsbanen, one in fact has seen that there are now more in Eigersund, i.e. south of Rogaland, which uses NSB to get to the Gardermoen – instead of driving to the Sola and flying to the Gardermoen when one goes on, one now takes the train all the way to Gardermoen. I think that is a good environmental measure, and that is a good transport offer. We've seen it on the Thrønderbahn, we've seen it on the Salt pendulum, which is now in the next six months going to get more take-offs. One sees it on the track, where one will start to double the train set in August. In total, all of this shows that there's a lot going on on single routes and on a whole grid that gives better local train transport, and we're going to do even more. We look at the possibility of doing even more to park more trains, because then we can also buy more trains so we can have them in use and make better offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e320	So my question was, when will we see an increase in local train capacity? Let me go on. The NSB, as I mentioned in my post, and as the proposers address in their proposal, goes very well financially and experiences a record growth in the number of passengers. I ask the Minister a question: is it not then smart to continue the job we are now doing – to equip the NSB to buy more trains, that the state guarantees more trains, that the state buys more rail services, that is, to make sure that the NSB is a modern competitive company with traditions and experience of driving trains in Norway – instead of seeing completely new organisational models?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e330	First, I gave the answer to the previous question, I referred to all the places where one has already started a growth and signals a further growth. So I feel that it was answered well. So it's good that the NSB does it better, and we believe that the reform we've undertaken will make the NSB an even better transport company in the future. It'll be even more eaten up towards passenger transport, by bus, and towards goods. We see that the NSB itself today wants competition. In these days, the NSB is waiting for tenders to try to take over the passenger service around Stockholm, where the number of passengers is more than in the whole of Norway. It bears witness to a will and a desire to bet on the NSB that is very good. We've also seen that the NSB itself has been out saying that they should be able to grow as they wish, they also need a reform of the Norwegian railway system. The air train and the railway station have said the same thing. I record that the only people who think we don't need to change the system in particular are the Workers' Party and some of them in the trade movement. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e337	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e340	It is – as the rapporteur said – a unanimous committee that wants to increase capacity and increase the frequency of local train traffic. Until now, the debate may have been a little bit about other things, which are coming later, but we have to get back to that. I visited Eidsvoll a few weeks ago and saw the developments that have occurred after they got increased frequency on the route. People use the railway a lot more and the driveway parking is expanding, but that's already too small. That means that people have received an offer they wanted. It has to be a goal for the rest of the local train traffic, that a thing to do is to make such a complete and good offer that people want and can use it, with both increased frequency and a regularity that people can trust. This means that maintenance is extremely important, in addition to major maintenance and investment. This is a long-term and hard work – I've learned that in the years I've been in the committee. Railway is not a quick fix. One has to use resources over time to get up the standard, and now we have a national transport plan that says that one should do just that. That's why it's a pleasure that all parties want to bet on the railway. The railroad is in a new era in every way, because everyone wants it. One shouldn't go back many years in time until one doesn't focus as much on the railway as one does today. If we invest wisely, with the investments to which the transport plan refers, it is possible to get more people to use trains. We're going to use the train effectively to transport people in urban areas. It has to be part of public transport, as well as bicycles and corridors. However, it shall also be applied to the long distances, not least for the carriage of goods. It is also an important thing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which is important. I think it is gratifying that we can agree that local train traffic is important, whether we are talking about the East, the South, the Thrønderbahn, the Salt pendulum or other sections of the railway that our committee is responsible for managing. The railway reform must come back to us. I probably have less faith that the consensus is the same when we get to the debate there, because I think what's important now is to invest wisely in maintenance and do the hard work, rather than draw up new boxes and new organisational models.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e355	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e358	There is agreement in the Chamber that it is very good that the government is now proposing increased capacity in local traffic, and, as we hear, it is therefore an impatient growth that wants more railways. That's very good. However, I would also like to say – if the Minister will also hear – that we must ensure that, in the roll-out of the national transport plan, we go through this thoroughly. The size is impatient, and it is now promoted from many parties – probably from all parties – proposals on road, rail, aviation and other important things. That is good, but we must ensure that we do not now undermine the national transport plan as a planning and management tool. The major, overall transport discussions must be taken into account when rolling out the national transport plan, otherwise the national transport plan will lose its function. It was good to be told! So I want to say another thing, and it's a little bit about what's the railway's advantage – and now I'm talking about passenger transport; the freight we get to take later. Passenger traffic is about transporting a lot of people, and that's why we have to say what it is: the railway has its first advantage in transporting people to work every day. The advantage of the railway is to be the preferred transport options for commuters – in the Oslo area and in the East, on the Trander Railway, on the Railway, on the Voseban and around the Salt Pendant – where people can use the train to and from work every day. I was referring to yesterday's incident on the railway and saying something like that that it shows that we need a ‘clearer interface’ – I think that's the term he used – between the NSB and the railway station. But dear friend, there is no doubt that it was the railway station that was responsible for the error that occurred yesterday? Now, the Railway Agency must be divided into an enterprise and a directorate, and the government and the supporting parties want more railway companies to be responsible for railway traffic. Then there will be more operators, and in my opinion it must be more difficult to handle and inform about any deviations that may occur when there are many actors. So I'd say – because it's the great-grandfather himself as head of the meeting: yesterday, the Minister of Transport had a press conference. He presented there proposals for reforms in the railway sector. The afternoon and evening yesterday were marked by the debate on the Minister’s proposal — without the Stortinget having seen a single document. It's incorrigible! It is unforeseeable that the government presents matters and there is a public debate, without the matter being formally dealt with by the State Council and delivering the Stortinget. I've been informed, here at the house, that Stortinget will receive the documents during the day. It won't last!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e371	It is good that the Storting is busy with the railway and to increase the capacity, because we should not be so many years back until all the parties were equally concerned about it. One of them belongs to the Council of State, which is now standing here and knitting in view of its fantastic bet. As I said, there is an overall committee behind this effort to increase capacity and frequency in local traffic. The minister pulls it forward time after time, and every time he goes to a pulpit, it almost seems as if they are the rescue of the Norwegian railway, and that it is those who are now betting on the railway. Then I would like to remind you that, first of all, it is a new sound from the Advancement Party. As I said, we are not going back so many years in time until the priority road ahead of the track and even suggested that there should be no passenger traffic on the Nordlandsbahn. Fortunately, it's not like that today. Everyone wants to bet on the railway, and I'm glad. Then I also see that the minister refers to examples that have been raised. Yes, and the examples are so far correct that the Stortinget has received, but I think he should have been a little more neat considering who is behind the proposals, even though he is in government. He went out the Salt Pendulum. Who added extra funds to the Salt Pendulum? Was that the government in their proposal? No, it was the negotiations in Stortinget with the Left and Christian People's Party that pushed them to add more money to the Salt Pendle. Then the minister would like to boast that he has been involved in supporting it. It will be the same with regard to the budget. I want to remind you that when we created the NTP, right had 2 billion. kr more than us per year. The progressing party was supposed to raise 45,5 billion. kr more than us per year. We see a little bit of it in the budget we're in now, and then maybe you should also remember it before going out high and dark with it. Then I would like to remind you that when you keep saying that the Workers' Party does not increase the maintenance on the railway, it is wrong. Because that's what's in the NTP we're running for now, and we're very happy about that. And then I would like to remind you that when the budget was presented from the Right and the Advance Party, it was 1.6 billion. kr less for transport than in the budget proposed by the Workers' Party in the Stortinget. It may sound like there's something else when the minister's on the pulpit, but that's the fact. One fact is that the working party had 900 million. kr more than the large number when we went to voting in the hall. So that the Workers' Party has taken over the need to increase maintenance, there is no doubt about it. This is reflected in the transport plan adopted and in the budget of the Workers' Party. I understand that the Minister will talk about 2014, but he should be more tidy and stay until 2015 when he compares the figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e388	The debate takes two turns here. One is that one has a proposal that wants to increase the bet on local trains. It keeps the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left to deliver, and that's a bet beyond the national transport plan. At the same time, the rapporteur warns against doing things differently from what was planned in the national transport plan, because it was our big planning document. I understand that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party want to deal with the national transport plan that they adopted. That's what they thought was possible for the next ten years. Today's majority had greater ambitions. We had a little different priorities, but all four parties wanted more way than the red-green suggested, and more rail than the red-green suggested. Then I don't think one should be surprised that we four parties together actually do more on the road and rail than what is in the national transport plan. For me, it's not a problem, because the government is prepared to do more. We're also able to give it a good priority. But it is precisely the discussion that was also reflected when last year we discussed a proposal from the Centre Party and the Red-Greens that we should present a revised national transport plan because it was now announced so much more investment on the road and the railway that the Storting should have a complete discussion. Here one shows only a clear difference at the level of ambition, but that is not a problem, because we coordinate the efforts of the Road Administration, the Railway Agency, the Coastal Works and the Avinor in line with the extra appropriations we are planning. We ensure that we use resources more effectively by coordinating work between the Road Administration and the Railway Agency more effectively. There is a need for fewer bureaucrats – because there is greater efficiency and greater decision-making among individual actors. I would also like to mention, when someone tries to give the impression that some parties were allegedly opposed to the railway just before they joined the government, that if one goes into the budget positions of the Transport Committee for 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 – yes, many years back – one will find that all the four parties that were then in opposition, put in appropriations on the railways. The promotion party often proposed billions of investments and approx. 250 million. kr in increased maintenance effort. So I don't understand the description of the story you're trying to do, which is actually objectively wrong with what happened. Then it is very good that the working party in the opposition has found out that they should also bet on maintenance. However, the fact is that the previous national transport plan also highlighted more maintenance when it was adopted. In 2011–2012 and 2012–2013, the Red-Green Government decided to reduce the real appropriations for both renewal and maintenance. So it was a negative budgetary development, not a positive budgetary development. So today's majority has raised this with about 55 pst. on the maintenance appropriations – 55 pst. – not because it was in the NTP, because in the 2014 budget, the Labour Party did not propose an increase, but a reduction; it brought about the change of government and new parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e415	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e422	I would like to thank the members of the Cooperation Committee, and I would like to express my special thanks to the proposer for putting this important theme on the agenda as well as for the flexibility of the procedure, so that we got a slightly different proposal from the original one. It is not difficult to share the views of the proposer on the need for measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for transport at, to and from Norwegian airports. Avinor is the main player in reducing emissions at airports, both greenhouse gases and other pollutants. I believe that Mr Avinor takes this responsibility seriously. Avinor aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that the group itself controls, regardless of traffic growth. The company also wants to be a driver for reducing the total greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian airports. Oslo Airport has set itself a target not to emit greenhouse gases from its own controllable activities by 2020. It is worth noting that the Transport Economic Institute, TØI, carried out in 2012 a thorough study and analysis of measures that could increase the collective share of passengers to and from airports, both for passengers and employees. The project covers the four largest airports, Oslo/Gardermoen, Bergen/Flesland, Trondheim/Værnes and Stavanger/Sola. Oslo Airport had in 2011 a collective share of 61 pst., bus, trains and air trains, while 32 pst. bring the car and 5 pst. with taxi and 2 pst. indicated other means of transport. The flight is the most popular way to travel. Every third accommodation trip takes place on the Fly train. Bus stands for 21 pst. of the journeys of the accommodation, while the market share of the NSB train is 7 pst. In Flesland, the collective share is estimated to increase to over 40 pst. in 2020. In the 2011 TØI survey, the collective share was 25 pst. However, it is worth noting that the proportion travelling by taxi is relatively high compared to the other airports. Increased bets on aeroplanes and local buses, as well as driving the Urban Railway, are important instruments for increasing the collective share. In 2011, the guards had a collective share of 45 pst., bus and train, while 40 pst. Bring the car and 13 pst. by taxi, and 2 pst. indicated other means of transport. Bus stands for 85 pst. of the collective voyages, while 15 pst. takes place by train. Increased rail investment could increase the collective share. Avinor aims to increase the collective share of passenger traffic to the Sun from 12 p.m. to 30 pst. by 2020. Passengers who use a car on the journey by accommodation indicate flexibility, short travel time and control with time as the main reasons for the choice of means of transport. Improvement of the collective offer can get more people on the bus. The 2012 TØI report shows that there is a large difference between the four airports in terms of their collective share. Common to all of them is that they have ambitions to increase their share. However, it must be recognised that the assumptions are very different. Target 75 pst. the collective share of Oslo Airport is set out in the airport control plan and maintained there. It's an ambitious goal. Recent figures show that the collective share of passenger traffic to Oslo Airport Gardermoen is 67 pst. It's at the top of Europe. The air train, NSB, routes, air buses and coaches have indicated that the national targets to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the road sector mean that an even greater share of the journeys to Oslo Airport Gardermoen must be made collectively. The Committee shares this view and will follow developments in the future. We therefore ask the government to report back on developments in the collective share to, from and at Norwegian airports in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e443	I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur. I was alone on this proposal, but I am pleased that the committee has joined it, and that the Stortinget will just decide that the government will report back in an appropriate manner on the development of the collective share to and from Norwegian airports. The size has adopted a climate settlement whereby greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced by 40 pst. To achieve this objective, all measures that reduce greenhouse gas emissions are important and, in particular, there is more to go about in the transport sector. The proposal under consideration concerns the use of transport to and from Norwegian airports and greenhouse gas emissions resulting from this transport. In the event of good organisation and targeted use of instruments, greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced. One of the measures must be an increased collective share. Today, the collective shareholding of Oslo Airport is Gardermoen 67 pst., while the concession terms set at 75 pst. There is still a little bit left to achieve this goal, and I look forward to the government coming forward with a plan to achieve that. There are plans to expand capacity at several aerodromes. In order to achieve the objective of increasing traffic growth in and around the largest cities with public transport, bicycles and corridors, the collective share of passenger transport to airports needs to increase significantly. Avinor is working today on the goal of 70 pst. the passenger transport to Oslo Airport must be carried out by public transport. This is not ambitious enough if we are to achieve the national climate targets. In 2013, a target of 75 pst was adopted. collective participation in the territorial regulation of Oslo airport. This objective must govern Avinor’s operations and investment plans at the airport. For Gardermoen’s part, it may also be important to organise the Gardermoen as a hub for public transport in Upper Rome. In this case, investments are needed to facilitate the transition from local and regional bus services to the Gardermoen local and regional trains. It is worrying that aerodrome emission reduction is not a more central part of the target management of Avinor’s activities. In particular, in the context of the planned extensions to several of the major airports, there is reason to highlight the need for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions for transport to, from and at the airport. This can be done by investing in infrastructure for more environmentally friendly fuels, by facilitating public transport as a provider of transport and by not increasing airport parking facilities. Among other things, with the expansion of the metro line to Flesland, increased train provision on the Trunder Railway and improved bus services on the North-Jear, there is great potential for the collective share of transport to and from other airports to be increased. We believe that an increase in the proportion of travellers using public transport is an important part of the green shift. Targeted management and use of instruments is necessary. That is why I am pleased that an overall committee now asks the government to report back appropriately on the development of the collective share to and from Norwegian airports, so that we get up the share that travels collectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e458	When the Stortinget in the 1990s discussed the main airfield – construction of the main airfield in the Oslo area – it was also decided that the main passenger system should be trains to the airport at Gardermoen. The NSB Gardermobanen, as it was called, was a success, especially after it was also decided that the railway should be extended from the Gardermoen to Eidsvoll, for it was first decided that it should only go to the Gardermoen. The Gardermoban has been a success, and it was a wise and forward-looking decision that was made in the 1990s. The NSB Gardermoban – later the Fly train – carries a large proportion of passengers to Oslo Airport Gardermoen. It's good, it's right, it's environmentally friendly, and it's forward-looking. Trains shall take most passengers. Many are also going to drive a bus, some are going to drive a taxi, and so it should be. Let's remind each other that taxi is also an important part of the collective offer. The report on rail reform has now been presented – while we have been sitting here in Stortinget and debating this matter, i.e. more than half a day after the Minister for Transport had a press conference, and after the Minister for Transport debated and presented a matter that the Storting did not know about. I repeat what I said in the previous case: this is an inexorable way of dealing with matters. Of course, it is impossible for us to get involved in the matter that was put before us while we are sitting here. If the Minister of Transport could be engrossed by listening a little to what is also being said from the Chair of the Great Britain, I intend to ask him a question. This concerns the Fly train in the forthcoming railway reform. The flight train is essential for carrying passengers to and from the Gardermoen. We have heard that the other rail traffic must be put out of competition – in fact, all rail traffic in the long term, as far as we could understand from yesterday's debates. We don't know anything, because we haven't read any documents yet. But does it also mean that the Fly train, i.e. the transport to and from the Gardermo, is to be put out of competition – is that how to understand? I ask because I have not had the opportunity to get into it. The next question I have for the Minister of Transport is: We could hear yesterday that all the train equipment is supposed to be placed in a separate company. The train equipment of the NSB shall be placed in an undertaking and those who have to make tenders in the long term shall use the equipment of the undertaking. Is this also true of the Fly train's materials? Is the Fly train’s material to be reached out of the Fly train and into the undertaking which is to own the rest of the train equipment? I think it is a little important that the Council of State can now inform us about this, as we have obviously not had the opportunity to intervene in the matter. I would also like to add that the Minister for Transport has given himself something – I would say – a unique way of governing Norwegian transport policy. The Stortinget has the tradition – when we discuss matters – that there are representatives from departments, offices and agencies in the diplomatic lodge. I have seen a clear development in that when we discuss matters of transport, there are no representatives from the government, the Ministry of Transport or underlying agencies present. Very often, it is empty in the diplomatic lodge when we discuss matters of transportation. It seems to me to be a pity, because it also has something to do with the interaction between the Storing, as legislative and admissibility, and the government, as executive, and underlying agencies, who get their orders from the government, but also need to hear the debates in the Storing. I find it strange that in the field of transport it is that no one from the offices and underlying offices follows the debates in Stortinget. At least it's very often empty in the press room – I'm sorry, at the diplomat's house. This also applies to the press department, but I will not assign that responsibility to the Council of State. But when we discuss matters from other departments, it is very often – as a rule, I think I would say – people present in the diplomat lodge. At least there's an observation we're doing here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e475	Then I can start by saying hello to all my staff and advisors sitting in the department and following this debate digitally. I am Minister of Ecom – Electronic Communications. Everything that is being addressed here is being sent, and a follow-up to the debate. It is simply an effective use of time for many, but I understand that the representative Myrli lacks a physical presence, so then of course we have to see if it is possible to a greater extent. This is an important issue, because it is about the interaction between different modes of transport. We are committed to providing good air services, but to reducing the environmental impact of air services, both when the aircraft are in the air and at all stages before and after. Avinor is the main player in reducing emissions at airports – of both greenhouse gases and other pollutants – and I believe that Avinor takes this responsibility seriously. Avinor aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that the group itself controls, regardless of traffic growth. The company wants to be a driver to reduce the total greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation. Oslo Airport has set itself the objective of not releasing greenhouse gases from its own controllable activities by 2020. It's a pretty ambitious effort, which shows that they're taking the challenges seriously. It must also be pointed out that over many years – I hope the Workers' Party is satisfied with it – there has been an increase in the collective share, both to and from Gardermoen, Flesland, Værnes and Sola. So many people have done a good job over a long time. The collective share to and from Gardermoen is now the highest in Europe and among the highest in the world. I also think that is evidence of an organisation that is taking the challenges seriously. The Transport Economic Institute has studied how the collective share of the accommodation service can be further increased, and among the measures identified are the same as one for commuters in and out of cities: increased frequency, better offer, better predictability and reduced travel time is the recommended choice of collective means of transport. These are measures that require the input of the airport owner — that is, Avinor — from the state, county municipalities, municipalities and transport companies. And in the Government's action plan on public transport, we have presented many different instruments, both general and special, that will help increase the collective share of airports. This is something we follow up in the annual budgets, but just a few weeks ago, the four parties that today have a majority were out there and could tell about the reward schemes that were distributed there are now 30-35 pst. higher than what was outlined in the national transport plan – if I am allowed by the representative Myrli to mention such things. I would like to stress that Avinor is entrusted with a driving role, because they control a number of instruments, and they are to contribute to a high collective share of the passenger transport. This can also be seen in the latest owner’s message about Avinor. Since 2008, Avinor has had a target of 70 pst. collective participation at Oslo Airport, as mentioned by the representative Raja. In 2013, a target of 75 pst was adopted. collective participation in the Oslo Airport Regulatory Plan, so that the objectives are strengthened. Avinor has informed that internal investigation work is currently under way at Oslo Airport to see how greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 2020. Once the investigation work has been completed, new climate targets will be set for airports, and Avinor has stated that a revision of collective participation objectives will take place as part of this work. I attend Avinor's investigation work and the revision of collective participation objectives in the passenger transport. This will be followed up in our ownership dialogue with Avinor, and of course Stortinget will be briefed on developments in this area. I would also like to mention that there have been a lot of things up through the history where governments and bigots representatives have notified what they have planned, before it has been promoted in Stortinget. If the representative of Myrli believes it is wrong that the government is creating a debate on a rail reform and saying what the four cooperation parties on the Stortinget have agreed on, it is a little strange that the representative Myrli was not out and strongly criticized also former Prime Minister Stoltenberg, when he began talking about having a moon landing in his New Year's speech. Very familiar was the Stortinget not informed of either the moon landing or the Mongstad project when that new year was held, without the Workers' Party criticizing its Prime Minister for it. But it is important that when the Storting makes its decisions, one should be thoroughly informed. That is why we have made a good big message, which is now being promoted. That means that the Storting will be able to start working with it, have their hearings, ask their questions, so that one within a make their decisions has been answered all their wishes and questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e497	The representative Sverre Myrli spoke of ‘we’ being concerned that there was a lack of representation in the diplomatic lodge. As part of the Committee, at least I am not part of this ‘we’, but I am very pleased that the Council of State is present in the Chamber when we deal with our issues. Otherwise, I am also very pleased with how the reform was presented yesterday, and here we – both Left and I – are very pleased, and I will assume that the other cooperation parties are too. But this was actually a topic that lies a little outside of the representative proposal that is up to discussion, which is about how we are going to increase the proportion of collective travellers to and from Norwegian airports. My question to the Council of State Solvik Olsen is: Do you have a specific plan, and you can set time when we're going to achieve the goal of 75 pst. by those travelling to and from airports, using public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e504	To Avinor first, where the work is going on now: I expect that we will get feedback quite quickly, and that we will then return to Stortinget. After all, 2020 is a goal that many people are talking about. If that is possible, it is also a little dependent on external things for Avinor – in terms of collective provision, railway betting and other. Avinor has also invested significant resources in the participation and development of biofuels for the aviation sector. It testifies to an commitment that is about more than just operating aerodromes, but is about doing something about the environmental picture around the whole sector. As far as railway reform is concerned, which will also affect this, I think it will turn out positive. There was a very extensive press release, on four A4 pages, in this connection. But I notice that when the Workers' Party said today they didn't know anything about the content of the reform, they were also very clear that they were against it. That's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e511	I thank you for your answer. Now there was also some doubt after the reform that was outlined and presented some points on yesterday, especially as regards what we are talking about now: that you should have a continued increase in the collective share to and from the airports. In particular, the flight train will be centrally located, but the NSB will also have an increased level of accommodation service, including to the Gardermoen – not all passengers make use of the somewhat more favourable offer. But here, there is some doubt about selling away from train equipment, almost like private operators coming out there and hamstering Norwegian trains. So maybe it can be a little reassuring with a clarification from the Council of State on this, on how to take care of the train equipment that both the NSB and the Fly train have, and whether these will continue to have a key role in bringing passengers to and from Norwegian airports to reach the target of 75 pst. collective shareholding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e518	I can confirm that the railway is going to be central as a accommodation service to airports, not just the Gardermo, but in all the big cities. We also see, as I mentioned in the previous debate, that several travelers from the Eigersund area have now begun to take the train to Gardermoen instead of driving a car to Sola and flights to Gardermoen, simply because one has received several departures, it corresponds better, and one can drop out of the overnight stay at the hotel. What has been very clear, and as one communicates also yesterday, is that the railway reform we now have is not the ‘privatisation’ element that some in the opposition are trying to give an impression of. The State must own the railway, the State must be responsible for the infrastructure and the State must also own the train equipment. But when you look at how you can make the best use of train equipment, there are several models up and going, whether the company that is supposed to maintain trains is also the owner, or the infrastructure company that owns the railway tracks also owns the train sets. But it's not about selling a train set, it's not about selling a railway. This is a rigid system that needs public governance and control, and then one must also have public ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e528	I have to say I am quite surprised at what the Council of State is able to answer in Stortinget when he refers to a press release. Let it just be clear: Norway is not governed by press reports. Report. St. 27 has been presented now, while we have been sitting here and having a big meeting. It was presented at a press conference yesterday afternoon at 4:30 p.m. It's gone to the Council of State in the morning today. So the content was clear yesterday afternoon. The Council of State would like to make political speeches, have visions and views and put forward a lot of policies, but concrete issues to the Grand Council, which is on the steps, should go to the Council of State and be formally dealt with before the Council of State presents it and puts it to debate. It's a basic rule in the relationship between magnification and government. I repeat my question from the outset: Is the rail traffic to Oslo Airport to be put off for competition? And question two: shall the equipment of the air train exit the air train and enter the new unit that shall be responsible for other railway equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e537	The last question I answered quite extensively to the representative Raja. To the first question, it is only to point out that the accommodation service between Oslo and Gardermoen is already under tender. It's a contract that doesn't last forever, but it lasts ten more years. Then it has to be renewed. There is already a competition today to get passengers to Gardermoen. Passengers may choose to take the flight, they may choose to travel by NSB, they may choose to travel by Netbus, they may choose to travel by Airbus – there are several different means of travel – and they may drive by car. So that competition already exists. What's important to us is that we get the best possible offer, so that more people want to travel by rail. That is what we see in our reform. Then I would also like to remind you that the red-green government was experts in leaking information that would come to Stortinget – long before it was presented. We run the railway today as we did yesterday, because no new decisions have been made in the Stortinget. It is the decision that changes should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e548	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e553	There are three things that have come up in the debate that I would like to comment on. One is a little bit of a principle, and it's about the role of taxi transport in public transport. In the percentages you count on when you talk about collective participation, you don't count taxis as part of public transport. If you were to pull in the taxi transport, more of the airports would get a lot higher in the collective share. It's probably something that makes these statistics, in principle should decide. The second thing I want to say about is the Flytrain. Today, the Flytrain has a real competition from the NSB. NSB is now running the same stop pattern, with Gardermoen as one of its stops, at a lower price than the Flytrain, because the Flytrain is running at market price, and NSB is running at strongly subsidised prices. A trip with the Flytrain from Oslo to Gardermoen costs NOK 170, while with the NSB it costs NOK 90. The first thing that the Flytrain competes for is comfort and frequency. It is probably easier to carry baggage on the Fly train than it is on the regional train, and the frequency is still higher. However, it is somewhat worrying that a publicly funded route offer can compete with one that is locked in a market segment. Finally, this is the case with the Gardermoen as ‘hub’ for local traffic. There are many in my county, Akershus, and others nearby who commute to the Gardermoen to take the train to Oslo – then we talk about the regional train. It is a pity then that Gardermoen has set up the location of these regional buses to feed the regional train, so that there are no transition possibilities. I am even of those who like to travel collectively in their own county, and take the bus to Nannestad, but when you get in by train, you lose the first option, because it's 2 minutes between the departures, and then it might be 5-10 minutes to go. So it's a lot to pick up there. I think there may also be some of the challenges when it comes to increasing the collective share of travellers – it's not enough to do anything on the Gardermo segment, there's just as many questions about how to facilitate the accommodation service. If you look at how high the accommodation service is – and this is evident from the TØI report – in the different districts/municipalities in the area around Gardermoen, you will see that it is not that easy to take trains, trains or buses from anywhere, and then you use a car, because it has some benefits of regularity, and you come from point to point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e564	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e578	This case concerns the examination of internal control by the National Audit Office in the field of procurement in the State Road Administration. The aim of the study has been to assess the implementation of effective risk management and internal control in the procurement field in order to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the State Road Service. Effective risk management and internal control is a prerequisite for ensuring the implementation of acquisitions in line with the Public Acquisitions Act and for preventing maladministration. When there are as many as 5,000 employees in Vegvesen to certify on different invoices, goods and services are purchased for approx. 40 B.C.E. kr annually, yes, there is a clear need for clear guidelines and powers. And, above all, it must be assumed that employees are properly incorporated into the legislation in order to make acquisitions on behalf of the State, and in this case for the State Road Service. The Road Service now has a significant acquisition activity and is one of the highest-purchase public enterprises in Norway. The Committee points out that the Road Administration of the State has established a comprehensive and well formal framework in the field of procurement. These include guidelines for the prevention, detection and management of non-compliances, specific guidelines for alerting critical issues and ethical guidelines adapted to the activities of the establishment. Unfortunately, the National Audit Office’s investigations show that there are a number of breaches of the law on public acquisitions and economic legislation, although a comprehensive framework has been established in this area. In the state road safety code, there are, among other things, record keeping requirements for acquisitions of more than DKK 100000. When the survey shows that 17 out of 23 acquisitions, i.e. 74 p.t., are missing a simplified protocol, this does not testify to compliance with the etate's own legislation. Furthermore, 12 out of 40 selected acquisitions of more than 500000 kroner have not been treated by the acquisition fee even if the legislation so requires. The Committee considers this type of breach of clear legislation to be serious. In 2011, the State Road Agency developed proposals for an action plan to follow the guidelines, but this plan continued to have draft status as of 2014. The Committee cannot see that the establishment has thus prioritised its efforts to get employees to follow up the guidelines. According to the State Road Service, the internal audit has a key role to play in the follow-up to procurement. The survey shows that the internal audit has not completed any audits related to acquisitions for the period 2010–2013. The Committee takes this as an expression that the internal audit has not prioritised this area. The Committee has noted that the Council of State refers to the preparation by the State Road Administration in the autumn of 2014 of a requirement document for internal control, the purpose of which is to provide overall guidance and principles for the implementation, improvement, documentation and follow-up of internal control, and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the work on internal control. The Committee has noted that the Council of State considers today’s decentralised procurement as an important prerequisite for achieving its objectives in the most efficient and appropriate way possible. However, the Council of State will ask the State Road Administration to assess whether there are areas where it may be appropriate to have a more centralised procurement activity. The Committee understands the views of the Council of State on this matter. The Committee points out that the current internal warning system for possible maladministration does not have the necessary trust among employees. Several employees are concerned that alerting may have personal consequences if they are alerting about critical circumstances. In addition, the study shows that a total of 40 pst. employees disclose that they do not know how to proceed to alert. The Committee expects the Ministry of Transport to take initiatives towards the state road system to improve its alert system in order to ensure that the scheme has confidence among its employees. Moreover, the Committee considers that alerts are a subject which could have been favourably reviewed in all public establishments on a general basis. The Committee endorses the recommendations of the National Audit Office, which is that the Ministry of Transport: In cooperation with the State Road Service, internal control in the area of procurement strengthens by carrying out both systematic risk assessments of compliance with potential risk and post-control and monitoring of the effectiveness of internal control of the station, taking initiatives towards the State Road Service to strengthen the competence of procurement legislation and practices of all those involved in acquisitions taking initiatives towards the State Road Service to improve the alert system, in order to ensure that the scheme has confidence among employees in cooperation with the Road Directorate assesses the benefits and disadvantages of a more centralised procurement activity in the State Road Service The Committee has no other comments, and I recommend the unanimous vote of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e619	Public procurement may seem to be a challenge in several places. That is a pity, because public procurement should actually be a driver of innovation and development. The state's shopping for large sums, $400 billion. kr annually, and then it is important that we get the good purchases. At the same time, we need to be sure that laws and regulations are followed, that we ensure that there is fair competition, and that we can follow it in retrospect. Protocols must be non-existent. In St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, which is called Good Procurement, was very clear that securing correct and good purchases is a responsibility for the tenants. One found that the leader’s focus on purchasing was too weak. All purchases must be anchored by the lease. Leaders must devote both human beings, time and money to the work of purchasing and ensuring better organisation, the building of competences and the focus on internal control. It is also the case that compliance will reduce the risk of corruption and contribute to the preservation of the environment, ethics and social welfare through public procurement. Therefore, it is very good that the Riksrevision investigates, in this case, internal control in the purchasing area of the State Road Administration. As the case-speaker has done well, the Committee is bringing together our comments on this matter. The state road authority is shopping for over 40 billion dollars. kr and is one of Norway's largest buyers. This is a lot of money, the taxpayers' money, and then we have to be sure that everything is done after the book, and that we make sure that it gets good. In the Road Service, there is a decentralised purchasing function, and out of 7 000 added, more than 5,000 have been certified, and almost 1,200 have been designated. I understand that this may be appropriate, but then it may be even more important that everyone responsible for purchasing is given competence in the regulation. The road system has a well formal framework, with guidelines, quality assurance systems and own guidelines for the prevention of maladministration. Nevertheless, in the Riksrevision report, there are a number of breaches of legislation, guidelines and routines. One sees weaknesses in quality assurance, and the guidelines for preventing maladministration have not been implemented to a large extent. In the Swedish Road Authority’s legislation and also in the Public Procurement Act, there is a requirement for record keeping when purchasing more than NOK 100000. When the investigation shows that 17 of 23 purchases are missing the simplified protocol, a non-compliant code has been used. Furthermore, 12 out of 40 selected purchases over 500 000 kroner have not been handled by the purchase topic, even if the legislation requires this. It's serious. In 2011, an action plan was even developed on how to follow up the guidelines, but at present there is only one draft. As I see it, that means that the department has not prioritised the work of following its own guidelines. We note that, in the light of the conclusions of the report, it is natural that additional measures are being taken to ensure compliance and to strengthen control and follow-up. The current internal warning system for possible failures does not have the necessary trust among them added. Several employees have experienced or observed critical conditions without notifying about the relationship. They reasoned that they were unsure whether the alert would be handled properly and that they were concerned that it might have personal consequences. The investigation shows that a total of 40 pst. of the added information that they do not know how to notify them. This suggests that the critical warning system has not been made well - known for their additions. This needs to be cleared up, and we expect the Ministry of Transport to take initiatives towards the state road system in order to improve the alert system and ensure that the system is reliable. I have written in the National Audit Office's recommendations, which are in the matter, and which were referred by the case-speaker. But I think competence and leadership are key words here. When regulatory competence is in place and good practices are put in place, a focus may be on ‘good procurement’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e649	The National Audit Office’s investigation reveals that despite a good formal framework for internal control in the procurement field, there have been clear weaknesses in the implementation, which may involve an increased risk of misappropriation. Weak follow-up and lack of risk assessments in the procurement field were also emphasised, in addition to the fact that the alert mechanism does not have the necessary trust among employees. The Committee has delivered a unanimous opinion, and I would like to refer mainly to the rapporteur's good presentation of the Committee's position. There are a couple of things that I would still like to touch on. It is alarming that an internal warning system is in place in an establishment that is not well-known and, perhaps the most serious, does not have the necessary trust among employees. We know that a well-functioning warning system is a central part of internal control to prevent and detect maladministration. When the alerts fear that an alert may cause personal negative consequences, or that they do not feel that they can trust to remain anonymous, it is alarming. There can be no doubt that this is part of the internal control that should be given greater focus in the State Road Service. A well-functioning warning system is of great importance in order to detect critical conditions in an establishment that manages as large values as the State Road Service does. This finding should therefore, in our opinion, be given the necessary attention by the owner, which can ensure that the knowledge of the scheme can grow, and not least that the practice of the scheme can take place in a way that builds trust and preserves the anonymity. Then there is an important question raised by the Committee: to what extent this should also increase the focus of other parts of the country’s activities. An internal control without a system of alerts that can be trusted by individual employees, we know that we have little value. In establishments where large values are managed, such as in the state road system, it is of great importance that this part of the internal control function. One of the recommendations of the National Audit Office is that, in cooperation with the Directorate of Roads, the Ministry assesses the benefits and disadvantages of a more centralised procurement activity in the Road Administration of the State. We note that the Council of State will ask the State Road Administration to assess whether there are areas where it might be appropriate to consider a more centralised procurement activity and it is supported. At the same time, it is important to note the argument of the Council of State as to what is effective and appropriate. Strong centralisation of most acquisitions will undoubtedly result in a more bureaucratic system. Through the way in which the State Road Service is organised in regions, centralisation of acquisitions can easily create delays and hinder good progress on projects of greater or lesser importance. I would therefore like to stress, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that strengthening competence and making improvements in risk assessments should be measures that need to be carefully assessed before starting a comprehensive centralisation and launch of measures that can easily act as a bureaucratic tool and prevent an effective procurement system in an already decentralised, regionalised state road system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e664	I would like to thank the Committee for a good and thorough work. I will ensure that I take these matters very seriously. For me, it is important that we get the taxpayers' money used in a good and efficient way. This means that when we implement and plan projects, we have to make sure that we choose good solutions, and when Vegvesen is going to implement projects, they have to contract them correctly, both in the sense that a person chooses good solutions, and in the sense that a person makes sure that there is no fraud in the systems. That is why the National Audit Office's control is also good. It is both thorough and comprehensive and the recommendations are important. We follow up on the findings of the study when we have governance dialogue between the Department and the Directorate of Roads through our etat management meetings. It will also be followed up in writing in correspondence. It is recorded that the Riksrevision considers that the State Road Administration has established a good and comprehensive regulatory framework to ensure internal control in the area of procurement. But the problem is more that it's not being followed up in a good enough way. It once again shows that it doesn't help to have great systems if people aren't familiar with them or fully understand how to use them. It is a work that we have been following up already, but of course we will follow up even more closely in the future, just to make sure that we have a system that is relevant and that is being used. With regard to the acquisition of goods and services, the State Road Service shall strengthen the follow-up to individual acquisitions and internal control of acquisitions. The state road system implements a number of measures in this area. Several of them are listed in the National Audit Office's report and are at least mentioned in the letter from me that is printed. In the economy of the State Road Service, there is a systematic development of internal control procedures, and different new computer systems relevant to project implementation and acquisition will be put in place, which also improve and make it more transparent. So the Riksrevision report is handled thoroughly. We'll take the recommendations for follow-up. I also hear all the signals coming from the control committee, and will ensure that we do a good job of making taxpayers' money spend in a responsible and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e684	I refer to what the rapporteur said and to what the other representatives of the Committee have said here in the Chair. I agree with all of this, and it is reassuring to hear the Government's answers to the issues both from the Riksrevision and from the Committee as such. The reason why I'm at all taking the floor here is because I'm surprised that in a lot of contexts in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, we only get cases when the Riksrevision has seen them. I'm just using this as an example. So here we've developed a culture that, in some respects, must also be characterised as an unculture, in this case in the Vegvesen, which no one else discovers before the Riksrevision enters into it. There should be thought for many of us. This is not the only case dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee, which is in the same category. I want to say from this pulpit, as the role I have here in Stortinget now, that I think it is very worrying that the administration itself does not see it, corrects itself, and that the department itself, if necessary, informs the Storting that here we have something that is not good. It almost never happens – or it just never happens. Then the Riks revision comes in, and then we all agree that it shouldn't be like that. But Vegvesenet has not said anything, the Directorate of Roads has not said anything, and the department has not said anything either – on its own keel. That's what I'm saying, and that's my concern, that it's not the necessary vigilance in administration to follow up the things that aren't as they should be. I have full confidence that the Council of State Solvik-Olsen will do what he says, there is absolutely no reason to believe anything else, so that's good in this matter. But I'm saying this anyway, because there's a concern I have out of this case and several other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e691	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e705	Although this is a matter where there is a great deal of consensus within the committee, it is also a very important matter. As we all know, the state companies manage significant values, and faults or little discretion that the management of these companies can have a major impact on the community and on well-being. I would also like to say that even though the comment text, that is, the wording of the comments, is essentially not written in the worst possible way – to put it that way – the content of some of the comments is extremely sharp, and I will come back to that. Let me start by saying that the general idea is that the management of state companies is essentially good. I would also like to say that it is getting better and better – year after year. Of course, there are many reasons. You get more and more competent and experienced owners, you get more and more competent managers, you get more and more management, and you have a huge amount of money. They're probably all the factors that have contributed to a positive development over time, but I'm particularly going to bring forward the job that the National Audit Office is doing. The National Auditorate has also done a very thorough job this time. They have provided a good and transparent report on the management of state companies. They follow up deviations and remarks over several years and are so seen as a very disciplining factor in fixing things that are not as they should. That's very good. In Part II of the report, Case 1, the Rikssaudition has looked at the capital structure of companies with State interests and finds that there is a wide variation in the capital structure of the state-owned companies, and many have a high share of equity. The capital structure gives little disciplining incentives for some whole companies, and the departments follow differently the capital structure of the companies. In other words, the Ministry of Ownership follows up and ensures that the companies have an appropriate capital structure. We see that in 19 companies, the equity share is significantly higher than in comparable private companies. We also see that companies with a rather limited mandate also have a high share of equity in some cases. Of course, in some cases it may be right to have a high share of equity. The problem is when it seems too random. Then there's a poor use of the community's resources, and of course we can't have it that way. That is why it is very positive that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries seems to have built up considerable expertise in this area – it also writes the National Audit Office – and it is positive that they are working to disseminate that competence to other departments of ownership, which may not be so experienced and so competent. Otherwise, a unanimous committee agrees with the Riksrevision's recommendation that a review be carried out and that competence be built in other departments, with the support of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. In case 2, the National Audit Office has looked at health companies’ preparedness in ICT, water and electricity. They find that health businesses lack or have inadequate analyses and contingency plans for ICT, water and electricity, that there is too little practice, that the management of health businesses is closely following down the work in the organisation, and that both the department and health businesses have facilitated the emergency work – so they have created the structures, but the follow-up itself, the operational management, has been too weak. The importance of having good preparedness needs a little bit of argument here in this room. We know what a terrorist attack can do, we know what extreme violence can do. When we then look at the report that 9 out of 19 health companies lack risk and vulnerability analyses for one or more of these factors, and when we know – based on the Riksrevision report – that the quality of these analyses is highly variable, it goes without saying that it is not good. What's positive is that the Ministry of Health and Health seems to be busy getting this fixed quickly, and they also write that in their comments on the report. Otherwise, it is worth noting that a unanimous committee is behind the recommendations of the National Audit Office, which is short and simple about holding more exercises, having more standardised analyses and plans, and having more attention down in the organisation on the importance of being rusted even for rare events. Case 3 of the report deals with the management and control of access to health information in electronic patient records, and four health companies have been addressed. The National Audit Office finds that health businesses have not sufficiently implemented the existing legislation on information security and the processing of health information, that health information is available to health professionals far beyond service requirements, that enterprises do not have systematic control and follow-up of employee access to the records, and that there is a lack of internal control of access management. First of all, let me say that I have great confidence in the employees of the Norwegian health service and the job they are doing. At the same time, confidential information on diseases and health conditions may be some of the most private and personal information available. Although we may have heavy personal protection batteries in part in this room, it is well beyond doubt that patient records are a private matter – the outsider should not be able to see what it says there. It's as simple as that, I think everyone agrees. Therefore, it is not reassuring that two out of four health-care providers have borrowed each other's username and password. Security audits have not been carried out, nor does the person in charge check that the unauthorised person is in and reads the file. This testifies to an unculture. It does not testify to an unculture in the sense that you have a snooping culture, I do not accuse the employees of the Norwegian health care system of operating, but I say that there is a culture where data security is not taken seriously enough. It's just one thing to say: that's not good enough, this has to be cleaned up. And it's once again a unanimous committee that asks the Department to look at the National Audit Office's recommendations and come up with measures to improve the privacy of patients in healthcare. Perhaps the most obvious measures are to ask for regional health measures to ensure that the current legislation is followed and practised in hospitals and to clarify the parts of the legislation that are unclear. In addition, control mechanisms need to be put in place, and employees need to learn more about how to process this private information. Case 4 which the Riksrevision has reviewed is the operation, financial management and ownership follow-up of Norsk Tipping AS. There we find that Norsk Tipping contributes to achieving the goal of responsible games. Norsk Typing does not have enough information to follow up on whether the company operates effectively, and the Ministry of Culture has not established good target management by Norsk Typing. Let me first say that it is good that Norsk Tipping contributes to achieving the goal of responsible gaming. At the same time, I would say that it's a matter of course, that's the whole reason why Norsk Tipping exists. What should also be a matter of course is that the Ministry of Owners has sufficient information to assess whether the company is operating effectively or not, and the Riksrevision finds that they do not have that information. Despite the fact that there have been internal projects to improve the efficiency of the organisation, profitability has been reduced in the period 2008–2013, i.e. the opposite result of what could be expected. The Riksrevision points out that comparing Denmark and Finland is a potential for efficiency improvement, and the Riksrevisions own findings, i.e. independent studies, also indicate that there is a potential for efficiency improvement. So the department says that setting cost targets is difficult, because it can affect the company's social policy goals. But the National Audit Office's investigation shows that Norwegian Typing does not know what it costs them to achieve the goal of responsible gaming. They just didn't figure it out. I don't think that's satisfactory for an organization that sells $6.4 billion. kr and manage Community resources. When you do that, I think you should always know that you run with a reasonable degree of efficiency. Then, of course, it's up to the Department to ensure that the companies they own are run effectively and that they are followed up. It will be quite difficult, as the Riksrevision points out, when the Ministry has not set objectives for the company in addition to offering responsible forms of gambling and at the same time having rational operations. When a person does not have a goal to manage, it is also difficult to have good follow-up by the department. I could do one example. Norsk Tipping believes that they have a surplus for non-profit purposes of NOK 3425 000 000, while the ministry, on its side, claims that it is not a measure but only an estimate of the surplus. There is evidence that the follow-up has been weak, and there is a unanimous committee that joins the National Audit Office's recommendations in the case. It is also a minority comment, from the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party, who take into account the fact that some companies are both commercial players and – at the same time – market regulators, and thus also take decisions that have consequences for potential competitors. Norwegian Typing is one such company, TINE is another example. These members of the committee would like to think that in the future the Riksrevision also assessed how these companies mastered that double role, but there is a minority behind that remark. Case 5 of the National Audit Office's study deals with the management of companies in which universities and universities manage the interests. They find that most companies are of professional interest, but that there is little transparency about the financial balance and little awareness of the different roles of the owners, that the objectives, results and finances of the companies should be better followed up, and that the department little follows up the ownership of universities and colleges. It is positive that most companies are of professional interest, and it also seems that the department follows this matter very closely. And since any subsidisation of the companies we're talking about here, for several reasons both are unfortunate and not least illegal, transparency about the cash flows is important. In the same street, it may be relevant to point out that the National Audit Office finds that there is little awareness of the different roles of the owner, such as: may hold both as a member of the board of a company and may have a leading role in a university or college. It is also worth noting that the educational institutions too little follow up on the objectives and performance of companies and that, on their part, the ministry too little follows up the ownership of educational institutions. A Joint Committee therefore asks the Ministry to assess whether the recommended measures of the National Audit Office could be relevant for implementation. Otherwise, it's very interesting in the National Audit Office's report. The Committee is also gathered on a number of comments on issues and issues other than those I have now mentioned, but I think I have said what I want to highlight from this platform, and refers to the position on the details of the other issues in the report. Finally, I would like to mention again that the ownership management of state companies is essentially and essentially good and is getting better and better, but there are weak points in some places, and it is important that the Storting follows the further development with still great interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e747	This is, of course, a matter that the Committee has largely been gathering all the way around, but I just want to make some comments. The checks carried out by the Riksrevision show that ownership should be strengthened in the surveyed areas, both through the follow-up to set objectives and requirements and through more transfer of experience. The central findings of the Riksrevision are: The capital structure provides little disciplining incentives for efficient operation. There are insufficient risk and vulnerability analyses in healthcare establishments. There is a lack of control regime for the follow-up to the use of access in electronic patient records. Norwegian Typing has an efficiency potential. Universities and colleges must strengthen their follow-up to their companies. I would like to comment on preparedness and electronic patient records: when it comes to health professionals’ preparedness for ICT, water and electricity, we see that there is a lack of risk and vulnerability analyses and contingency plans, and there are too few exercises. And even though the leadership in the department and regional health care agencies have facilitated the preparedness work, the follow-up has been weak. It is important that this is followed up by both the ministry and the business community. Because when one sees that 9 of the 19 health services surveyed are missing ROS analysis for one or more of the inputs, and that 13 health care agencies are missing one or more emergency plans, I am very happy that this has been identified in the report, and I expect this to be sorted out now – both in quality and in quantity. We know that after July 22, 2011, there were health professionals who actually got out very well in the reports afterwards. They did a very good job. It was good, but one must also be sure that the system is working if something happens to ICT, or with the water or power supply. In the case of electronic patient records, EPJ, the four healthcare professionals have developed written procedures based, inter alia, on the legislation on personal system login, access management and logon control in the EPJ system. Nevertheless, there are many examples of missing compliance with and little knowledge of internal procedures and current legislation: in two out of four health professionals, they have borrowed each other’s user ID and password for logging in to the EPJ system. It appears that there is far too little knowledge of the three different access rights to the system that healthcare professionals benefit from and lack of knowledge about when to use them. And none of the healthcare professionals have carried out safety audits, as required by legislation, and there is a different perception among healthcare professionals about what is required. And there are none of the health professionals who keep the journal in charge, as the law says, that one should do, and there is a widespread lack of knowledge about the responsibilities of the journal manager. The National Audit Service believes that healthcare professionals have neither implemented the current legislation sufficiently, nor have they been adequately provided to enable them to comply with their statutory obligations for the treatment of sensitive, sensitive health information. It is also unfortunate that regulatory requirements are interpreted and practiced differently in different health services. It is serious that healthcare professionals do not have systematic control and follow-up of their access to the EPJ, and we ask the Ministry of Health and Health to take the recommendations of the National Audit Office, so that the privacy of patients in the healthcare system is improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e784	I wanted to take the word to underline what a joint committee says about Norwegian Typing. Norwegian Typing is a very important company. It's important socially, it's incredibly important for sport, and it's also important regionally, in Hedmark, where I come from. I have been critical of Norwegian Typing for a long time, because it is clear that in a company that has such a special framework around its operations, and that will distribute the surplus for good purposes, there is really no natural control over whether the operation is good or not. And when the Riksrevision is so messed up that the cost percentage has increased, and that the efficiency of the company has fallen, I think it is very serious. For Norwegian sport too, it is quite critical, because it is clear that this is a company that comes from a monopoly situation and is on the move in a market where you really have quite tough competition from international players who have completely different conditions to operate. Then trust in the company and trust in the company's management of its position will be central to whether or not they are able to maintain their position, and whether or not they are able to meet their social goal. Because if trust is weakened, it will be more eager to choose the options that everyone knows are on the Internet. It's pretty easy to get there. So I just wanted to stress that the conclusion that the Riksrevision has, and the attitude that a unanimous committee has, I hope the company puts itself on the heart and works hard with it. I also hope that the department takes seriously that here must have a good target management for the company, precisely because it is absolutely central, I think, if Norwegian Typing is to maintain the position it has, something that everyone wants it to, because, as I said at the outset, it is central both to the financing and operation of Norwegian sport and to have a responsible gaming market in Norway. So I really just wanted to take the word to emphasize what the overall committee says.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e795	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e809	As the opinion shows, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has no comment on the State Council Protocols for the first half of 2014, neither as regards the cases of refusal, the appointment of office, established, amended or repealed regulations or other matters. With regard to the review of regulations, I point out that the regulations laid down by the King of State Council form part of the Committee's six-monthly review of the State Council's protocols. It should be noted in the preamble that the then Control and Constitutional Committee returned to May 2007 that the government asked to include a list of new central government regulations and amendments to the regulations issued under delegated authority in relation to the transmission of the State Council Protocols. In this context, it was also asked to send lists of hearing bodies in the cases. In December 2008, the Committee took a further step and asked for an overview of cases in which powers to issue regulations had been delegated from the Ministry of External Affairs. So here we are talking about regulations that are not laid down by the Council of State and are therefore not part of the minutes of the Council of State. On this basis, the ministries have provided information separately, and it has been done in different ways. As set out in the opinion, the Committee will no longer request the transmission of all new rules laid down by a ministry or by external agencies by delegation. This information will be widely available on the Ministry's website, in Norwegian Lovtidend etc. I point out that a systematic review of government regulation is very resource-intensive and that it is difficult to implement within the Committee's available investigative capacity and competence. The Committee, irrespective of the half-yearly review, will be able to monitor, in the light of its right of initiative, whether a regulation has been given in line with the intentions of the legislator or other clearly stated parliamentary assumptions. With regard to the regulations contained in the minutes of the Council of State, the Committee will continue to routinely request the Investigation Section of the Grand Duchy to carry out investigations as part of the six-monthly review.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e822	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e836	I am delighted to present a unanimous opinion from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on the establishment of a Grand Total Investigation Commission to assess the situation surrounding the Scandinavian Star disaster. It is the Committee's hope and the Committee's intention that parliamentary scrutiny, together with police investigations, can provide greater clarity on the facts which have been set out in previous proceedings in the Grand Duchy. It is also necessary, in the opinion of the Committee, to assess the follow-up of the case by the public authorities. In particular, this applies to the preservation of the survivors and relatives. The fact that the Storting today takes such a decision is absolutely necessary in the light of all the questions that remain unanswered in this tragic case. The survivors and the survivors in a democratic society are demanding that everything that can be done to provide clarity be done. They've been waiting a long time, too long. 25 years is clearly beyond what can be called acceptable. That is why I think it is important that we express a regret that it has taken so many years before Stortinget, and many great things, and I can now stand here and propose – unanimously – that we appoint such a commission. We know the enormous disaster. 159 people died, 24 of them children, all Norwegians. The relatives' organisations have been effective in finding the truth. This concerns the Foundation for the Exploration of the Fire and the Support Group for Survivors and Survivors. We here in the Grand Duchy owe them a great deal of thanks for the work they have done for many years. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee met representatives of the Foundation on 11 November 2014. It was pointed out by the Foundation that there were errors in the assumptions for the previous treatment of the Storting. In particular, I would like to stress that the Stortinget then dealt with the matter on a basis that the police themselves have subsequently gone away from. There is in itself a very concrete reason why it is necessary for Stortinget to review the case again. We also met the support group for the survivors and relatives, on 25 November 2014, who have also met the Minister of Justice. Following the meeting, they have presented several points to the Control and Constitutional Committee which should be included in a mandate for re-examination. I want to commend the efforts, progress, seriousness and thoroughness that these two organisations have been performing for many years. There is a basis for claiming that without their efforts, the police had hardly resumed the investigation, and the Stortinget had not started the investigation again. It calls for thought, both in the police and in the Stortinget. As you know, police investigation is ongoing. Both the comments and the proposal for a decision have clearly defined the Commission's work on police investigations. The notified body shall not do the work of the police. The arrangements for the Commission must be realistic and, as I said, must be followed up with the processes that have taken place in the political system and in the administration. In line with a clear parliamentary practice, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection proposes that the Presidency be given the task of presenting proposals for a mandate, the composition of the Commission and the necessary legal provisions. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e855	This is a unanimous position by the Committee, and it is excellent, also because we have developed the basis for the way in which such an investigation commission, which we support the establishment of, should operate in conjunction with the more ordinary research activities that are also taking place in the case. I don't have much to comment on the factual presentation of the committee chairman, to which I agree, but at one small point I will report a disagreement, and that is the assessment that this committee of inquiry would not become anything without an external pressure from the organised. I'm not so sure, because this investigation has a history, also in Stortinget's own research history. I remember from this place that since 1827 we have had 70 examinations, and over 90 pst. has been appointed by commissions other than the Storting, i.e. the government, in some cases also statesmen. On seven occasions, the Storing has taken this step, and in five of these cases, one was also equipped with one's own legal homes, primarily in order to be able to exempt from legal confidentiality. Then, of course, the rule is that it's just the Storing through the law that can do. But one of the investigation commissions we've had before, it's just Scandinavian Star. That is why I would say that if this police investigation that is currently under way had concluded that there was a major error in the investigation report that Stortinget had previously received in the form of a NOU, it would only be lacking that it was not corrected in the Stortinget's own documents. I understood that when we had these meetings as committee chairman pointed out, that there was a constant desire among the relatives and the survivors. Otherwise, for those who are interested in the place of the investigation commissions in our administration, I can refer to NOW: 2009 no. 9th@item: inlistbox We will also assume that the investigation commission has a work methodology and that it follows the best principles of our administration. Then it's true that we've also been on the interface to the ongoing police investigation. I believe that this has been well preserved with the unanimous comments that are now on the subject, which will also lead the presidency's further drafting of the mandate. However, I would like to end by reminding you that the Stortinget has already perhaps made the greatest contribution to bringing forward what is possible with human forces to lighten up this very tragic accident. What I'm aiming for is that the Storting made a change earlier in the session. On 17 March this year, the Storting adopted a change to the third paragraph of Section 66 of the Penal Code, which removed the limitation period for infringements of Section 148 of the Penal Code, also known as the arson paragraph. This amendment entered into force on 27 March of this year and implies that any criminal offence related to the Scandinavian Star fire will no longer be out-of-date after 25 years, which would otherwise be the rule, and which in this case could also have prevented effective criminal prosecution if the police investigation provides a basis for it. Then I believe that the Stortinget has followed up the spirit of previous investigation commissions. I do not want to talk down on the work that has been done, but we are interested in seeing about all the information that Stortinget presented at the time and put an approval mark on in its treatment, still stands in the light of the later new information and investigation methods, and in the decisive and final police investigation that the Riksadvokat decided to launch on 27 June 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e872	I am absolutely sure that the relatives, the survivors and the survivors appreciate very much – almost more than we understand – the regret that the rapporteur made here in a very good manner. I think it's hard for us to fully understand how all the people who have lived with this for 25 years have struggled with what they feel has been very many unanswered questions, that it has not been the will to turn all the stones, and that they have repeatedly tried to reach without being heard. The support group and the foundation, as the rapporteur said, have done a very good job of keeping the environment together, talking together, giving each other the strength to deal with what they live with on a daily basis. They have done so for years, and they deserve the honor given them by the case rapporteur on behalf of the Stortinget. I'm absolutely sure they appreciate that. I also agree with the rapporteur that this is a reflection. I had the matter up in an interpellation in Stortinget in November 2013, and then raised the question of the need for an investigation. The Council of State Anundsen then said that he felt that it could be a good approach and give a different approach as to whether it was the Stortinget who took the initiative in the investigation, and in fact encouraged in that debate the Stortinget and signed to examine the possibilities of launching a parliamentary inquiry commission as an alternative to the appointment of the government commission. It should also be said that the proposers of the proposal we are dealing with today were originally from all parties, but it is very gratifying that it is now a unanimous position. That's the important thing when we're going to move on. It has also been a very fine follow-up from the control committee with the work that has been done in meeting the actors and taking a thorough look at the matter, as the rapporteur also pointed out that he had done. The need to go through this again was further underlined when the police, after having reviewed the case's documents, found out that there were so many serious weaknesses that they had to start over on very central points, such as the perpetrator, the course of fire, economic conditions and ownership. Then it is also natural for other parts of the system to review its parts – its parts, its parts of the process – and review the management of the authorities at all the points that the case rapporteur has addressed and that are mentioned in the suspension. We have a lot of experience in the management system, which the representative Tetzschner was also involved in, that we are able to distinguish between investigation and investigation and are tidy about it. I am absolutely sure that will also happen in this case. Those who work with this in the police, even when there was a little debate on this at the end of January, in an interview in the NRK on 21 January, said that Stortingen’s investigation would not interfere with the investigation. The police have also stated that much of the material they are going through in the investigation can be material that cannot really be used to set up, to obtain evidence that holds in court, but which of course may be interesting in relation to the investigation, and that it will therefore be a great advantage of an investigation in addition. It's a very tragic and bad thing that we've been struggling with all these years. The matter is not solved because the Stortinget starts an investigation, but there is a way to take the survivors, relatives and survivors seriously as it is a milestone that the Stortinget does. I am very glad that this is a unanimous attitude, and that we can then move on to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e889	I take the floor briefly in this matter to note that I am very pleased that we have managed to reach this consensus as an overall committee now stands behind, and that we are getting a review of this. Ever since the Control Committee met the Support Group, the Left, and I, have not been in any doubt that this is a proper step to take. We've tried to be on the ball, along with the case rapporteur and the other parties that are proposers, and to be the proponents for this to happen. When you meet the support group, when you meet the foundation and hear what the process has been like in the last 25 years, it's not possible to be unaffected by the case and not least by all the many complex issues that are unanswered. In such a great national tragedy, where 159 people lost their lives, it's not going to live on the fact that you don't get to the bottom of many of the big questions that still stand unanswered after 25 years. It is clear that we still need – as we have had – an ongoing police investigation, and it is positive that the police themselves express that such an investigation will not go beyond police investigation. There is also no reason to believe that it should. On the contrary, in many cases a review can help to obtain more answers than a police investigation might in some cases reveal. You go deeper and broader into work, and you use different methods than what a traditional police investigation might do. So I think this is a right step for democracy and for the country, especially when it's such a big deal behind, in the tragedy that has been. I believe that our democracy should not save on any resources in turning all the stones into such a case, in order to answer all the questions that have so far been unanswered. I agree and agree with the rapporteur's remarks here from the pulpit, both the regret that was expressed, and also the honour that has been given to the support group and the foundation. I don't think we'd gotten as far as the great step we're taking today, 25 years after, I don't think we'd have managed to get here, if it hadn't been for the accomplishable effort very many of these have put in. So I'm very happy that we get to this. We have not been in doubt on the left that we should do this, and I am glad that it will be a unanimous decision. Ideally, there should have been all the parties that stood behind as proposers, but it is subordinate. The important thing is that we get a review that will help to produce information. We hope that this will give the necessary answers, both for the survivors and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e906	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e922	The major technological revolution that ICT brought with it in the world of work, society, social life, etc. has not had the same revolutionary effect in the Norwegian school. That's a little bit of the background for my interpellation -- just to see how we as a nation are going to meet the possibilities that this technology gives, and what kind of bias we should be doing. In the last decade, state politicians responsible for continuing schooling and state councils who have been responsible for the school in general have almost panicked about the fact that ICT will lead to the same kind of revolution in classrooms as in workplaces, and that has not happened. Why hasn't that happened? Today, we can establish that PC and digital learning materials have not in themselves led to better learning. The question is, were we too naive? Were we too techno-optimistic when we started these big stakes? Is it possible that learning and pedagogics are of such a character and so peculiar that this kind of technology simply doesn't fit in – it just disrupts? Have we simply found a technological level of pedagogics – that here it stops, this is the technological tolerability of pedagogics? It's apparently life-threatening to be ironic in staging reports. It can be picked up from context in later times, so I'm going to settle for this. The experience with the ICT bet in Norwegian schools shows that this initiative requires a deliberate pedagogical strategy. Until now, technology has been mainly used as an additional resource for the textbook. Teachers have received little guidance on how digital tools can strengthen learning outcomes. In many cases, PCs and the Internet have been disruptive in classrooms and have been used to strengthen pedagogics to a small extent. Technology has simply been used incorrectly. Thus, we are in the following situation: If a deliberate national pedagogical strategy is not established, ICT will continue to be a disruptive element in Norwegian school. In other words, it is in the interest of both the ICT-sceptics and the ICT-optimists that we establish such a strategy. No one wants to have schools with lots of computers that are primarily used for things other than learning. It is therefore crucial that the Minister has a strategy in this area. Until February this year it has been quite quiet on the part of the Minister. But then, in the day and time of February, the Council of State expresses itself very critical of the struggle that former ministers have had with ICT in school. Not only does he think that the bet has been characterized by naive optimism. He also doubts whether ICT as a whole can contribute to learning. He also points out that the claim has support in the research and says, ‘It is difficult to find good research that clearly shows that digital tools enable students to learn more’. Firstly, both Norwegian and international research shows that digital tools – if used at the premise of pedagogics – provide great potential. It is especially that the minister has managed to ignore it. We must not forget that research is slow. Research published today is usually based on five-year-old data. But it is not the Minister's association with research, which is the most eye-catching. It's the idea that ICT can't contribute to learning, which seems like he's a bearer of. It is true, of course, that ICT itself does not contribute to learning, but something else is saying that it cannot contribute to learning. That's what's alarming. In the same way that I believe the Minister that the ICT bet in the last decade has not worked satisfactorily. My analysis is that the ICT bet in the last decade has not worked because it has focused too much on computers, and too little on education and learning environments. You can't just throw lots of material into school and think it's gonna revolutionize itself. It's naive. At the same time as the Council of State says this, there is an exciting development in the field of pedagogical technology that is now so mature that it can quickly provide more learning in schools. Development is paving the way for a basic reverse operation for digital tools in Norwegian schools. We now have a golden opportunity to think new, and other countries do it all. Denmark, England and the United States, to name but a few, have already established offensive national strategies. There is no need for Norway to do so on its own. But there should be reason to take the discussion seriously and to get involved in why this is interesting in these countries, and to discuss what might be the content of a strategy. Let me do three examples. Outside the Detroit crisis scene in a socially challenging environment, Clintondale High School has used the Internet to perform an impressive turnaround. In 15 months, the school ranged from high non-responses and weak outcomes to halving the iron percentage and significantly improving the results of national tests. Their way to success was to turn the classroom upside down. Students see video snippets explaining the theme at home and spend time in school for homework such as solving tasks and working in groups. In this way, teachers can use time to help each student instead of onboard education, while students are given appropriate training instead of necking or waiting for the class. And not least: the teaching will always be available and portable. Another example is Salman Khan. The whole thing started with him from Boston making explanatory videos and math tasks for the cousin Nadia in Louisiana. She and her friends found out that the YouTube version of Salman Khan had great advantages. One could stop, flush and work at its own pace. This was the starting point for the non-profit site Khanacademy.org, which today has thousands of videos and millions of monthly users. And not least, Khan offers several million tasks that stimulate active learning and provide free access to the analysis of the level of champions, time use and learning history. So to Norway: I've been to Haugenstua school in Oslo and have seen how the Norwegian-developed math tool Kikora helps teachers tailor the teaching. This tool adjusts the level of your tasks, gives students direct feedback about how they calculate correctly or incorrectly, and gives tips on how they should get started. Teachers will save time on correction and get detailed information on how each individual student is positioned. The teacher can see how many tasks they've done and how many solutions they've looked at. The information is invaluable to enable the teacher to adapt the learning needs of each individual student. Potentially, these data can provide up-to-date information on pattern levels in different classes, schools or areas and tell us which learning methods and resources work best. Such smart digital learning material also facilitates a more precise in-flight assessment of students and can perform national tests, even tests and tests, which are unnecessary. One does not ask the Minister to come to Stortinget with a strategy, but one may have a clear one. The equipment is in place in Norwegian school today. Now we simply need a strategy for how to use this equipment for something positive. Seven points I would therefore suggest to the Minister, so may the Minister take them or not take them: Firstly, it is necessary to establish a common ICT architecture at school, based on international standards and with common login solutions. Secondly, minimum standards should be established for the infrastructure in the school, digital units and network access. Thirdly, there should be a requirement for an increasing percentage of new learning material to be digital, as has been done in Denmark. The part should start at a certain realistic level, e.g. 30 p.m., then slowly increasing year by year. It will also promote the innovation of developers and publishers. Fourth, a national system of recognition for digital learning material, commercial and free, should be established to meet key learning, standards, interaction and linguistic equality requirements. Fifthly, teacher training must be strengthened. The aim should be to enable all new teachers to integrate educational ICT use into education and to provide all teachers with continuing training in ICT education. Sixthly, a strategy must ensure that it is possible for all students to use digital tools and content. Although most people have ICT at home today, there is also a class distinction here, which needs to be addressed. Finally, the fundamental point of an ICT strategy for the school: data control. When the student's work is digitized, it is crucial that these data are protected as a mother protects her children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e960	I'm pretty sure the Internet has come to stay. We live in a digital world, you look at every visit you're on, you see it at every meeting you're at, and you see it in the main hall. It must also be reflected in school. Students at school have access to the Internet via mobile phones, just like everyone else, 24 hours a day. They can find out information, at least in theory, about all things in the world when they need it. They have countless digital tools, which in theory can help them with different tasks. So there's no alternative that school should not reflect on society around it. Let me give you some examples: the students have to learn source critiques to find out what is reliable information, and what is wrong information. A typical example in these marking days is perhaps information about World War II. One has to know something and be critical of the source in order to distinguish between a neo-Nazist side and real facts about what happened, for example. the Jews or the Roman people. They need to know about privacy in order to know how to protect themselves and how to avoid resetting digital tracks. They need consumer knowledge in order to be able to understand what is common advertising, what is annoying spam, and what is phishing, i.e. digital snoring or fishing for sensitive information, such as: password or credit card number. They need to work with attitudes to become good digital citizens. In connection with the work of the Djupedal Committee, digital bullying has also been put on the agenda. They need to know the rules and the boundaries and also the law around what's good to spread, and what's not good to spread. All of this should and must be part of the school's work on digital skills today. Let me take a few examples from the societal skills objectives: find and present information on societal issues from organised sources, including digital sources, and assess whether the information is useful and reliable – i.e. source critiques use basic network knowledge in digital interaction and have knowledge of rules on digital media privacy find and extract societal information in search of digital sources, evaluate findings and follow rules on web and network science using digital tools to present societal work and follow rules on privacy and copyright At the same time, it is not surprising that we have some challenges, which the interpellant also points to. Although digital skills are in place in the curricula as one of the basic skills in school, there are too many variations between schools in how they work with digital skills. So we need to strengthen our digital skills in school as well. In particular, I would like to stress that we can be more effective at using ICT in a targeted and appropriate way. Maybe we should also go from a discussion about ICT as a collective concept to a discussion about the concrete tools and concrete ways to use them. ICT is not the solution to everything, but it can be the solution to something, and this ‘something’ must have a conscious relationship with what is. Learning in a digital society is likely to impose greater demands on self-regulation, self-structuring and awareness of how they learn. It's also a potential pitfall. Because we know that self-regulation, self-structuring and knowing how to learn are qualities or requirements that can easily favor those students who have the best starting point. Appropriate use of digital technology requires the ability to concentrate, to structure your own work and to regulate distractions. Again, there may be a danger that these are skills and characteristics that favor the best-principal students. The ability to use digital tools targeted will become increasingly important, whether we are talking about school, higher education or employment. Vocational digital competence for teachers is as much to know when and how different educational tools can be used to optimise the learning of students as to know when ICT is not the most suitable to achieve the skills objectives. And a central part of the teachers' skills must be how they can help students minimize distractions. It means both clear rules in the class and that different digital tools are switched off when they do not have a reasonable use from time to time. It is the teacher who is the head of the classroom, and we must help teachers to have the necessary security, both professionally and digitally – and from a political point of view – to deal with those challenges. I have therefore made it clear in the newsletter for ICT centres in education that good practices and the appropriate use of ICT must be central to the Centre’s guidance and resources for the sector. The centre will shortly present a new supervisor in this field, and I hope that it will be useful for the teachers. It's the third time this spring that I'm at Stortinget to explain different parts of the government's commitment to ICT in education and training. I am pleased that the Stortinget shows great interest in this part of the knowledge policy. I want good competence to form the basis for a high degree of freedom of choice in the training sector, especially in relation to the choice of methods for teaching. I have briefly said that I trust the school and that the school knows best. ICT centres in education are an important tool for implementing several of the Ministry’s strategies and overall objectives. An example of this is the development of math MOOC — for further education in mathematics for teachers. However, the Centre’s instruments are mainly indicative and advisory and are intended to support local priorities and choices. It is not relevant for me to go in and control the sector much more strongly in this field, for example. through the legislation or curricula. I believe in spreading good pedagogical methods, but I nevertheless believe that we should ensure the freedom of method that we have in school. So that doesn't mean we shouldn't learn from each other – you have to, and we have to be more good at it in school too – but that means we have to trust that the school and the teachers know best. The representative Knag County asks what is my strategy for using new technology. The answer is that I do not have one strategy for ICT in the training – I have at least three. The main strategy is called the Teacher Lift – At the Science School Team. Later this year, we will launch strategies for real science and for reading and writing. All these strategies include the use of ICT in training, because the use of ICT today is an integral part of the curriculum in all disciplines, because it is a basic skill. This does not mean, however, that it can be treated equally in all subjects. Similarly, it is natural to treat ICT differently in the different areas of government. As the representative points out, we have a good starting point. I think we can continue the good starting point, and that both the schools and the industry can use it to develop further. The competence of teachers is crucial. We have reports showing that teacher training does not prepare teachers well enough to use digital tools and tools in a good enough way in school, but there may be grounds for optimism. ICT centres themselves experience that they have succeeded in establishing a good and comprehensive cooperation with teacher training institutions. As I mentioned earlier in this room, there will also be a new teacher training. ICT is also part of the work on new real science initiatives. The culture of real science needs to change, and we need to get the results up. It is not really about a real-life strategy to improve national tests or international surveys; it is about a strategy for nurses, engineers, skilled workers, teachers, ICT professionals, etc. Several students need to get the professional prerequisites they need to be able to choose ICT and technology in higher education, and then good knowledge of mathematics and real science is important. In this context, we will also address the problem of learning materials. I do not believe as the interpellant that we should go back to the scheme with a central qualification subject, but I agree with the interpellant that the current state of teaching materials in the Norwegian school is not good enough. The answer to Knag Fylkesnes’ question is therefore that my strategy is the integration of ICT into the overall education policy. I also want to mention finally that I don't believe in a lucky school, in the same way that I don't believe in a heroic school. Many people believed a few years ago that because digital tools came, we would no longer need handwriting in school. There's no reason to leave handwriting just because you have digital tools. We have several schools that today work well with digital skills, teachers and students who work well with different digital learning tools, and it is also, fortunately, a greater focus on the challenges that follow in the wake of an increasingly digital world. I agree with the interpellant when he says that equipment alone is not enough. It is here, as in all other areas, about quality, not quantity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1013	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. Luckily, the department doesn't have such a bad feeling that ICT is something that doesn't have anything to do with pedagogics, and it's good to right. It is also good to know that one has strategies for certain areas in this field. Nevertheless, I cannot trace that there is one national strategy in this area. At least I have to give two reasons why a common, superior national strategy is important. First, the experience from other countries is that this is not self-evident. The possibilities of ICT and the ICT pits – this is a monster that needs to be scratched. If one leaves it to the municipalities and county councils alone, there is a greater risk that things can go wrong if one does not have a larger, superior national strategy. Therefore, there is a need for a common overarching strategy. This can be illustrated by a single common login system. Had a single common login system, where the data that was inserted was safe, where there was no danger that these could end up with unresponsive – person-sensitive information, things that have previously been pointed to as problematic – we had an infrastructure that all the schools could use. This infrastructure can also be launched as various applications, such as educational software. So one needs a common national infrastructure for this, if one is to have control of this monster, because ICT can be good, it can be bad, it can be a barrier to learning, it can be a strength for learning. If the minister's intention is not to have a common national strategy in this area, I believe that we will certainly see that the disruption that ICT represents in very many schools around the country will continue. So, when it comes to the skepticism of too much use of ICT in education, if you really want to address it, you need a national pedagogical strategy. So I'll just say finally that the possibilities here are huge. You could imagine a national strategy that went to vocational training. Other countries have done this. The big technology effort has been made for those who take vocational and vocational training, where one offers virtual labs connected to the universities. Making this type of infrastructure available to students increases the status of these subjects. It could be an idea for a minister who is involved in vocational training, for example: putting the forces on the ICT bet there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1026	First a little bit about the story. We had a national ICT strategy, a little bit simplified. It came under Kristin Clement, it lasted until 2008 and was extended for one year, until 2009. Before this strategy was adopted, there was a myriad of different strategies, and one national strategy was developed in the field of knowledge, and the grip of the then government was that it was decided not to renew a national strategy instead of setting up the Centres for ICT. I'm in no way a fundamental opponent of a national strategy. It might be a good idea, so I don't want to reject it. The crucial thing is what is the content of such a strategy. And I want to challenge the interpellant a little bit, because he says we need a pedagogical strategy. What is it? If it means having a strategy to disseminate good examples, which can be confirmed by good research, how to use digital tools in a good way in school, that might be a good idea. If it means having a strategy that requires schools to have a certain way of using digital tools, then I am deeply skeptical about it – not because I believe everything is just as good, or that there should be ‘laissez faire’ in Norwegian classrooms, but because I believe it is an important and good principle that the school knows best and that you have freedom of method. This does not mean that you have to operate as an individual agent at school and not listen, share and learn from your colleagues, but that means you have to be careful, I think, with national educational strategies rather than letting the school and the profession take their responsibilities. So I believe that ICT and good use of digital tools, which may be a more appropriate way to say it, can definitely contribute to learning if used correctly. What I think has been part of the challenge, which we now agree on, is that there has been too much attention around equipment. There has also been uncertainty in the sector about what digital competence really means. When you're going to integrate it into every subject, what does that really mean in practice? There has been a challenge that has been difficult for the sector to answer. I agree – and that’s a good challenge on the curriculum side – that today we don’t have a good enough system to simply provide information to the schools that choose tools, about the different learning methods. We've come a little bit on the way through the system called Feide, which is not something this government has invented, but which is something that was rolled out under the previous government, which is a common identity registration system, to say the least, that all schools are supposed to be associated with. It also provides opportunities to build a larger database of tools that schools can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1037	The representative Knag County travels an important interpellation. He points out that in Norway we have a good starting point for both developing and using the new technology in school. We have a well-developed ICT infrastructure in school, and we have an EdTech industry in strong development and growth. I myself have a background from the publishing industry and have seen this development come in close proximity. Now that we've had three debates on this topic in the main hall in a short time, and we're looking at how we work on technology and digital learning forms, yes, it says something about we're many people who think this is important. At national level, we have chosen to raise digital skills as one of five basic skills in school. It's a commitment. Recent surveys and reports clearly show that practices in schools vary, both between schools and within schools. It should be a challenge for school managers, school managers, teachers and not least teachers. We've seen huge investments in digital infrastructure in recent years, both software and hardware in school. Many of our schools are well equipped today, but it is alarming when school leaders report that there is a great difference in the competence of teachers in how ICT can be used in a pedagogically and educationally well-organised way of teaching. And it is particularly alarming that it is often the newly educated teachers who are most uncertain about how digital tools should be used in education – young teachers who have grown up in a digital world but still struggle with digitally organized education. It is a signal to me that this must be taken seriously in teacher training. Without good ballast from teacher training, a young, newly-trained teacher is quickly assimilated into an established college of teachers – at good and bad. Today, 79 pst answers. by teachers, yes when they are asked if they need to develop or renew their ICT skills and digital skills in the job that they are learning. It's a clear signal to the principals. If we are to succeed in ICT and digital skills as a basic skill in school, I think three things are required: a good infrastructure and time-real equipment well-qualified teachers, with good competence in digital learning education – it does not keep just betting on the fires a well-functioning market for digital learning materials – today we have a great deal of them, and they are under constant development; I'm happy in both books and traditional teaching, but we live in a digital society. Both school and parents are concerned with teaching children digital judgment. But it's not enough today. The ability to increase both learning and learning outcomes through sensible, varied and educationally well-organised digital education is present in full. Then it's important not to go wild in the wild and the flora of dolls and programs, but to be able to use the good educational materials, programs and applications that promote learning, and at the same time to control what prevents learning in a digital setting. It requires knowledge. And it seems to be here the shoe presses as hard as possible. It is a challenge we must face in schools, in teacher training and also as education policy makers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1066	It is a very important matter that the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, addresses in his interview. From a political point of view, ICT in schools has been an important field of activity in Norway for several years. An explicit goal has been to make future generations the most equipped to participate in the knowledge society, where technology increasingly characterises our everyday lives. When the knowledge promise was introduced in 2006, digital skills were introduced as one of five basic skills for children and young people to be acquired through training. Appropriate use of digital technology requires ability to concentrate, structure your own work and regulate distractions. The ability to use digital tools targeted will become increasingly important, regardless of whether you are talking about school, higher education or working life. An important result of OECD work in this area is that ICT and digital tools in schools are not effective tools for learning without teacher skills adapted to pedagogical and didactic competence. Unfortunately, we see that the digital competence of teacher training is not good enough. It is generally a major problem that access to ICT skills in Norway is too weak. The need for people with ICT skills is great in almost all sectors. To solve this problem, we need to ensure that those who are going to teach the teachers of the future, who are going to teach our children again, have enough competence. It is important for several reasons, not least because the ICT industry is one of the major value drivers in Norway. ICT in school should be an important tool for increasing learning outcomes and developing learning strategies. In addition, there may also be a reduction in the number of time thieves in school. Good competence of school, infrastructure and accessibility staff is essential to this success. The party of progress will stress that the teacher is the most important factor in the learning of the learners. It is therefore important that the teacher has the necessary skills to teach digital aids and skills. The best means of enhancing ICT competence remains to bet on the quality of teacher training. Teacher training needs to be given priority and increased interaction between institutions, the focus on learning and quality, the willingness to change and more cooperation between educational institutions and businesses are important factors to achieve this. There is also reason to expect that the structural reform of higher education will have a positive impact on the content and quality of teacher training, including ICT competence. Better ICT skills must be part of an overall commitment. The new national real-life strategy shall be submitted by the government during 2015. Good knowledge of mathematics and other real science is an important basis for making use of all the opportunities offered by ICT. ICT is a tool for mastering real science. If we are to get more skilled students, students and researchers in ICT both in the short and long term, Norwegian students need to improve in mathematics and science. Then we need to strengthen local efforts – in each municipality and at each school and kindergarten. We need to strengthen real science and ICT skills in teacher training, and we need to strengthen ICT education at both post-secondary, university and university levels. The Right Party Government is now underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1081	I want to start by thanking the interpellant Knag Fylkesnes, who is addressing this theme, because it's very important. There are several of them who have taken part in the debate, who stress, and also that it has been mentioned several times. I'm sure it's going to be taken up several times here, too, because I don't think we're coming up with the answers here today – with all the respect for everyone involved, but I don't think we're going to. That's right, as the representative Norunn Tveiten Benestad says, that we're a lot of people who are concerned about it, there's no dividing lines between the parties there, but we're going to flock a little bit. We're filthing, and we're looking for solutions, at least it's like School-Norway is filthing and looking a little bit. There is a demand for a policy in this field that we have not been able to put in place. Then, in a familiar political style, we can go back to that government and that government and that government etc. etc. and point to each other. I experience at least when we meet those who know a lot about this field – stakeholder organisations, those who organize people working on it, those who organize those who develop new teaching methods, ICT Norway, Abelia and others – that they are not satisfied with the way we have organized this in Norway. I think we should take that seriously. One of the strengths of Norwegian society is that when we have good contact with the actors in the sector, we get useful information that we should use. I would also like to briefly say something about why I think this is important. It is because, together with traditional teaching materials – books, films, in and on their own, and handwriting, for that matter – it is clear that ICT can do methodological wonders. It will solve some of the challenges we see in school, for example. with adapted training. It's a pleasure to see how a teacher who knows how to use new, adapted learning materials can get those who really are on the subject, who are really learners and who are ahead of the average class when it comes to working on their own, and those who are a little behind, who can get time and quiet through the use of new technology, to work parallel in the same class under calm and comfortable circumstances, and it's in a way that's not so much harder to get than in a traditional way. In addition, it is that you want to make teaching more exciting by it. There are many people who are bored at school, but they are sitting at home in front of computer screens hour by hour. Many of the products that have been developed are based on computer games, and all of a sudden, students who are not really interested can get more interested in school. That's one of the things we're struggling with most, often with non-response as a result. And we get more exciting and varied teaching. Then it's the time thieves we're talking about in school. We have time thieves because we have not got ICT properly into the bureaucracy in Norwegian school. The places that have managed to bring about red tape, bring up innovation and boost productivity are areas that use ICT in a proper and systematic way. It may take time, but in 10–20–30 years, I'm pretty sure a teacher's working life, using ICT, has become much better. The question that we should ask ourselves is, how are we going to do this? Now what do we do? Should we have a strategy, or should we not have a strategy? It has also been discussed in this room before. I do not have the oracle response to this either. I think there are many broad measures that need to be taken, but one thing I am absolutely sure, there are also several that have mentioned before me, and that concerns teacher training. Now we're in front of a master's degree. A new master's degree is to be made, and then the golden opportunity is here. There I disagree a little with the representative Bente Thorsen of the Progress Party, who says that we need to strengthen ICT in the real world. No, ICT is an instrument to be used in all disciplines. Even in exercise and in food and health, it can be used as a tool. But the thing is, it can't just be up to individual universities and colleges, depending on what they think is right, to introduce ICT as part of teacher training. In this case, it is interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks, but it cannot be up to the individual to use ICT in Norwegian school or not. I believe that all teachers should have good ICT skills, preferably the best, when they come to graduate school, and that it is our job to provide. Now, when we're going to make a new master's degree, I think it's one of the important things that should be part of that reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1098	I would like to thank you for your fine contributions from my co-representatives as well. I think Marianne Aasen said it pretty well: it's been a lot of stuff. It has our municipal council, it has our county council, and it has our state council. In fact, it has also been an international plight in this area. One has gone in the same beard, to say it like that, around the world. There have been periods when one has wagered too much on the computer, forgetting content and its use. Then have a come about at the same time to the point we're now. Several countries now have offensive strategies — once again — but all the focus is on how to use them based on the pedagogic premises, and not just a moving-in machine park. So one has to move from things to things. For a philosopher, it sounds very open, but it's very easy to settle in the light of history. I think where we are now, we're pretty sure that it's the pedagogics that must be the starting point for the ICT bet. It sounds very obvious, but that's what we've come up with both nationally and internationally. So I think that ICT and the power that he has in society is so strong that solving it, individually, around all the noses and in small municipalities and everywhere, will be too bad. Here, a national strategy is needed. Without a national strategy, there is a lack of potential, and there is no answer to the problems it creates. Nine out of ten teachers say that ICT in classrooms seems disruptive. At the same time, nine out of ten teachers say that a better use of ICT for learning would be positive. So even the teachers say that there's a problem here, but the possibilities are there too. They are calling for national strategies in this area. The developers of these programmes, smart digital learning materials, are calling for national strategies in this area. Governments challenge me on this with a pedagogical strategy, the content of it. First of all, I think having a national quality assurance of digital learning is important, simply because it ensures content, whether it's appropriate for education or not. As one representative here said, then they don't want to go wild in the wild by dipping around. One has a national expert quality assurance. In addition, a pedagogical strategy will have to be a strategy for managing the disruptions that ICT represents in the classroom. Should e.g. teachers have dashboards that make students unable to go on Facebook? Similarly, a pedagogical strategy should be such that the competence of the teacher must be increased throughout the field, because without teachers' competence in this field, it is doomed to go wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1114	Thank you very much for an exciting debate. That's definitely not the last one we're going to have about this. I think there's a lot of consensus about the reality description and the intention. Then I'd like to remind you of a few things. Firstly, in the studies where we can compare the digital competence of Norwegian students with that of students in other countries, we do well. This is one of the areas in which Norwegian school excels. That's really two questions. One is about learning the digital tools and using them in itself. And then you don't talk about Norwegian school today having to teach students how to use e-mail, Facebook or something like that. What you're talking about is knowing how to use it -- privacy rules, that kind of thing. The second is about advanced tools, such as: if you are going to do some research, statistical tools and that kind of thing in high school. That's the one problem. The second is, can this contribute to more learning in other subjects? Can you learn more math from using digital tools? The answer to that is: probably, if it's used correctly. If it is used incorrectly, the risk of learning less is great. I believe that we must also have some confidence in the schools. I think it's important what kind of political signals we're sending out. To say that the teacher is the head of the classroom, that you have to have good law, that it is allowed – yes, not just allowed, but expected – that the teacher can also say that now we put away mobile phone, PC or whatever it might be, you have to get full support to do. But that you need a national strategy to figure out how to prevent each school from getting on Facebook an hour, I'm a little bit unsure. Now I pointed out the point of the interpellant, but the overall point, that it must be completely clear to the sun what rules and hits the schools and the students at each school have to deal with, I fully agree. Then Marianne Aasen has a very important point. It's that one of the major areas that's going to be affected by digital tools, and where the school's likely to hang, is what's going to be about organizing. A good way to remove time thieves is to make messages easier, make work plans easier, make planning easier, etc. At the same time, we know that one of the frustrations of many teachers is that the digital tools make 24 hours a day available. My parents were teachers. When I was a kid, it was very rare – then it was something very serious – that a parent called my mom or dad after 8 p.m. 17 o'clock in the afternoon. E-mails come around 24 hours a day. It also imposes new requirements and presents a new challenge for the school to set limits on the working hours of its teachers. I agree that digital skills in teacher training need to be strengthened, but I still believe – overall – that relatively general framework plans are the best way to manage education. But it's not clear. This is a basic skill and must also be reflected in all teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1134	Case No. So 7 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1150	The Right Party government has on many occasions highlighted the importance of the good teacher in the classroom. This is also reflected in the Government Declaration and in the priorities set out in the Ministry of Knowledge budget. We know a lot about what works in school and what creates learning for the students, and the most important thing is that the students meet a professionally up-to-date, committed and motivated teacher in the classroom. No matter how many goals we set ourselves for the school, both in here on the Stortinget and for that matter in the Ministry of Knowledge, there are some people who have to implement this, and it is carried out in the meeting between the individual student and the individual teacher in the classroom. This, in turn, means that strengthening the teacher is to ensure both professional replenishment and to ensure recruitment, and this also strengthens the first line in the knowledge society – the teacher. We know that the most important thing in school is quality, not necessarily quantity. That is why I share the ambition of the Council of State to strengthen teacher training and to ensure adequate continuing training for teachers who are in school. But at the same time, we know that we're at risk of recruiting too few teachers, and that we're going to have enough teachers in the classroom and have enough quality of the teachers we're training. And once again, we might end up at the expense of quality in order to secure the quantity. So it is worrying that we see a lack of recruiting for teacher training. The goal must be that the best students who leave high school also want to be teachers — and by «the best students» I mean not only professional but also the most suitable to become teachers and educators. The numbers vary somewhat, and there may be disagreement about these, but you're assuming that we're going to need approx. 65000 more teachers by 2030. This figure, combined with the fact that we know that the dropout in teacher training is high, and that we get a wave of teacher coal from the 1960s and 1970s that will naturally end up with retirement, makes the teaching shortage significant. So when we're going to recruit more, we should see where the potential is greater to pick up more students. So, as I refer to in the reference text, the number of men applying for teacher training is much lower than the number of women. The same is true of the situation in the classroom, where women are in considerable numbers. It is very important for me to say that there is no problem in itself that many teachers in Norwegian school are women. There is also very little, if anything, research evidence to say that teachers' gender balance has something to say for students' learning as such. What is clear, on the other hand, is that the teachers are not just knowledge-sharing. Many teachers also serve as role models and role models, and they are an essential part of children’s everyday lives. Children need young and old role models, and they need male and female role models. Consequently, it is essential that students meet different types of teachers, both in age, gender and for that matter of personality. When I sent in this interview, it got caught up in several places, including on social media, and I've been contacted by more people who also work with teacher recruitment, about what they think is necessary to get more men to become teachers. I have to admit that in the same way Norway, I have been a little surprised by the feedback, because what has been a review tone has been that you should get more men to become teachers, the status needs to increase, and the salary needs to be raised. The logical consequence of such reasoning would be that if women are lacking in a profession, they will have to reduce pay and status in order to get more women to choose that profession. I think it's too simple, and I also think it's the way that the women who choose to become teachers become it because they have high ambitions and because they think the teaching profession is an important profession. On the other hand, men or boys may find out later in the education cycle that they want to be teachers — that it takes a little longer for boys to realize what a fantastic profession the teaching profession is. I ask the Council of State more questions about how we can ensure increased recruitment to the teaching profession and how we can increase the status, but also about how we can get more men to want to become teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1171	In 2015, the vast majority of people agree that it is the professionally competent teacher who sets out good learning strategies that are the most important single factor for the learner’s learning. But it hasn't always been like that. For many decades, especially from the 1970s until the turn of the millennium, many wanted to humiliate the teacher's role as a subject. Professional authority was viewed as something old-fashioned, out of line with the ideas of the school historian Alfred Oftedal Telhaug called the neo-radical period of pedagogy. The ideal was that the teacher should be aligned with the student — one who arranged and created a safe social framework — and then the learning should be done almost by itself. This teaching ideal got a serious break when the PISA tests showed that many had a suspicion, namely that Norwegian school provided only medium-sized results. Then, fortunately, many school politicians woke up, and in a few years, several parties were forced to replace their old school policies. We got the Knowledge Lift, which was designed by the Bondevik II government with Kristin Clemet at the head, and was continued by the red-greens from 2005. In other words, when interpellant Henrik Asheim points out that we have recruitment challenges for the teaching profession, he points to long-term challenges. With the Teacher Lift strategy – on the team for the knowledge school, we have taken strong steps to bring up the status of the teaching profession and make the school a more attractive workplace. Then we also have to be willing to do things that aren't always as popular among everyone. We extend teacher training to a five-year master's degree, we strengthen the recording requirements, and we strengthen the skills requirements to be in the teaching position. But we're not just making demands. We also provide historically high funding for continuing education. We continue a strong commitment to school-based competence development, team building at school. At the same time, we test, among other things, new career paths for skilled teachers who will continue to teach. I would also like to mention the professional profession with which the government has a great deal of support from the Stortinget, in particular the scheme that offers scholarships to teachers who want to take pedagogy – PPU-y, i.e. professional pedagogy – and the hosting system. With regard to the PPU-y scheme, we also need to send a thank-you to the cooperation parties on the Stortinget for the inclusion of the grant scheme in the budget. As interpellant Asheim points out, we need more teachers in the future, but we need more male teachers. It is a pleasure that this year's number of applicants points in the right direction. You might think that it would go wrong after that, for example. has been a major conflict in school, but it has not. That's 8 pst. more educated as a first choice than last year. This is the largest increase in years, and the proportion of total candidate population is also increasing. Then kindergarten teachers and driving school teachers were excluded. It's teachers at the school I'm talking about. In terms of gender balance, progress is also in the right direction, albeit slower than you would like. Among the first-choice applicants for teacher training who qualify for initial training, the proportion of men in the year’s admission is 37,2 pst. In 2007, the proportion was down to 31 p.m. and remained stable at 35 p.m. throughout the previous four-year period. Over the last two years, we've seen an increase of over 2 percentage points. But even if evolution goes the right way, we shouldn't be happy too early, because this is candidate numbers. With regard to teacher training and the teaching profession, we know from experience that dehulling is highest among men, both in the period towards admission, during study and in the profession itself. In addition, statistics show that we have a special challenge with regard to the proportion of people in teacher education in the childhood. Since 2010, when primary teacher training replaced general teacher education and was divided into two courses, it has a qualification of 1–7. the step lay stable on approximately 20 pst. male first-choice applicants. For the other teacher training courses, the gender balance is now actually within what we normally consider acceptable, i.e. between 40 pst. and 60 pst. But 20 pst. among those who will become primary school teachers is too small. So what's this lack of men at the nursery, and what are we going to do with it? First of all, there is little evidence to suggest that the sharing of education itself created the problem, because the overall proportion of men in the two courses has remained stable at about the same level as the old general education. It's probably more right to say that the two-part division made an underlying problem visible. Furthermore, I think we have to admit that this problem has a long history. Both in Norway and in other western countries, female teachers have traditionally been the strongest in childhood, while men have dominated at higher class levels. It is obviously associated with traditional gender role patterns, where fewer children have been the domain of women. Why this pattern has persisted in Norway for a long time after gender equality came on the agenda, there is no clear answer to this. The school researcher Kirsti Klette has pointed out that Norwegian school has for a long time been strongly influenced by what she calls the socialisation mission, while the knowledge mission has become more in the background. A hypothesis may be that such a profile does not fit as well with the motivation of some male applicants. Perhaps it's also that when a strong female domination sits down, it becomes self-sustaining in the same way as for a strong human domination. In that case, we need to think about both the teacher training and the teacher role in attracting skilled applicants of both sexes. We also need more knowledge in this area. It may be appropriate for the Ministry to provide more knowledge of the development of the teaching role over time, including the issue of male teachers. We're not going to succeed in the Teacher's Lift – on the team for the knowledge school if we don't also succeed in getting a better gender balance among those who want to be teachers. Then the question will unrelentingly state whether any immediate action should be taken – which can be effective immediately and which is clear, clear and visible. Some have suggested introducing so-called boy points in the admission to teacher training. Others could imagine several recruitment campaigns. I'm deeply skeptical of the first. I'm not going to categorically reject the second proposal, but I'm pretty sure it's not here the state should put in the main effort. In the case of extraction points during uptake, it has been shown that the so-called girl points have contributed to raising the proportion of women in e.g. the training of engineers at NTNU, but these are not entirely parallel problems. Engineering training has long attracted women applicants with high grades, the problem was that some of these did not come in anyway, because there were so many male applicants with an even slightly higher score. With such a starting point, the girl points on the top may have tipped the trend in a favourable direction. The situation of teacher training is different. There I think we first have to focus on getting up the search and the level of character in general. Quality must have first priority. One of the reasons for this is precisely the desire for a better gender balance, for over time there is only a teacher training with clear professional requirements that will be able to attract capable applicants of both sexes. In addition, I also believe that there are important prima facie arguments against discriminating applicants of different sexes, and I note that NTNU has recently changed its practice in this area. When it comes to information work and campaigns, it may well have something to do with it, but I'm also sceptical that the state should have a leading role. We must not forget – not even in Stortinget when we are going to important debates – that the main responsibility for recruiting applicants for teacher training lies with the educational institutions. It is the school owners, municipalities and county councils who are responsible for making schools, including kindergartens, attractive jobs, so that they are also able to recruit men. School owners will then have to use the tools available to them, including recruitment campaigns, competitive pay and a good human resources policy. Our most important job is to strengthen the framework of the knowledge school — through high quality teacher training, through clear demands for both students and teachers, by developing the knowledge school and by finding that it is an exciting, interesting and demanding job, which should also do more to keep good teachers longer than they can today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1199	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I must begin by saying that it is very positive that a fairly wide range of measures have already been taken to ensure increased competence, increased recruitment and increased status of the teaching profession. Governments point to the fact that, especially in childhood, there are most women, and that this may be related to the gender role pattern, and that early school may often be seen more in the context of care than in knowledge. Here, I believe we have a common task and job in pointing out the importance of primary school years, not only as care and play and learning in that way, but also that they are crucial to raising students' competences. Maybe one of the hardest things to do as a teacher is just to be a teacher at the lowest stages, because here, kids come in with a completely different starting point, where everyone has to reach the same level in order to get on with it. Of course, more knowledge about why men don't choose the teaching profession is very positive, and it might be useful to hear from guys themselves, to say that, why they don't choose to become teachers, and why they might choose the lowest classes. I share the skepticism of the Council of State for my own boy points and to the extent that the scepticism about whether new recruitment campaigns are the solution. I think the most important recruitment campaign for both men and women, also in order to get more men to understand the importance of the teaching profession, is just to get a teacher's promise that refers to how crucial the teacher is for the future of children, how important the job done in the classroom is, and also how challenging such a job can be. I believe that the great potential we have among men must nevertheless be discussed more thoroughly. I think it's a problem that for many of the adults who children meet in school, women – not because the women as such are a problem, but I think that the gender balance in kindergartens, which we've been discussing for a long time, is also important in schools. If we can together adopt measures to increase the status of the teaching profession and increase the admission requirements for teacher training, I think we can also recruit more men and more women. One thing is who we get to apply, but the important thing is to get them to implement. If it's the case that guys leave the teaching profession before they're trained teachers, we also have to see it in the context of teacher training and what it offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1212	It is a fact that the decline in teacher training is highest among men — the majority of men fall away. Why it's like that, we don't know, but it's a fact. I was at the University of Southern Trøndelag, which is one of our leading teacher training institutions. It was just after we launched the news that we wanted to propose skills requirements in Norwegian, English and mathematics, and that these would apply to everyone who works at school. I was prepared to get criticism from the environment and the students that we imposed too strict standards of competence. The critical issue that arose was the opposite: why do you impose stricter requirements of competence for the small school stage than too high during the course? That was a very good point. Then I was given a lecture on how important the basic knowledge, the trades unions and the tradesmanship are in the first few years. If you think you're a 1-4 teacher. steps to learn away, e.g.: math, you don't need mathematical insight, you take basic mistakes. Most people know that one plus one is two, but what you're going to do in the first few years is not just that -- it's not that you should be able to do that one plus one is two, it's that you should be able to understand what numbers are, what it means to add, what it means to subtract. It requires professional competence, and it requires didactic competence. I think one of the challenges we have in both school and kindergarten is that we have seen a little too much both kindergarten and elementary school as areas that do not require professional competence. I think a lot of women also react to it. I think maybe it could be – maybe, because here I'm not on a solid research basis – one of the reasons why the recruitment is crooked. Otherwise, recruitment is also crooked in the sense that we have bigger problems recruiting teachers for the small school stage than we do in the course. Point two, there might be something to learn from those who have a lot of recruiting for their school. Now I don't know how the gender balance is here in the capital, but one thing we know at least, and that is that when new jobs are published in Oslo School, there are a lot of applicants who want to work there. There's a discussion about Oslo School in the media almost every day. I think it's surprising that no more parties want to learn from what they've done in Oslo school to get 300-400 applicants for one teaching position. There may also be other municipalities that can learn something about how to systematically, over time, build a knowledge school that, although there are certainly improvement points, can recruit people, and be able to recruit skilled, committed teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1223	Maybe we can start with male teachers stopping sitting on the Stortinget and getting back to what they really have education for. But we'll see in two years. As both the interpellant and the Council of State refer to, GSI figures show that the number of male teachers in primary school is falling. This school year is just every four teachers man. The school is served with a greater gender balance than that, just for the simple reason that children need different types of teachers, both men and women. I especially share the Council of State's concern for and focus on childhood, because it's just a little over 20 pst. seeking to specialize in 1st to 7th grade. It's quite serious. When we sum this up with the great need we have for more teachers in the future, and when we also know that many of those who end up, the majority of those who end up in school, are men, the conclusion becomes quite clear. The majority of men choose the whole school and the whole teaching profession. A few weeks ago, we had a debate in this room about boys in school, about boys performing worse than girls. I think you should be careful to say that there is a parallel between that and the low proportion of men who are teachers in school. But as we dived into what characterizes the schools that managed to raise the boys' results in particular, it was about one thing: not putting in particular boys' actions, but the schools that managed to raise the boys' results were the ones that focused on raising everyone's results across the gender. A little bit the same way, I think we have to think when we're talking about recruiting men for the teaching profession. I believe in awareness campaigns and high information pressures. It is a matter of becoming more aware of what the teaching profession is, because it is sometimes that misconceptions – or rather misconceptions – are misdirected by educational and professional choices. That's why I think it's necessary to get the ambition to increase the proportion of men entering as one of the indicators in the GNIST teacher recruitment initiative. We have seen positive effects of the bet, for example. to recruit several men to the nursery. But I believe in very close proximity that this is the only recipe. A more focused effort on men in school, that's the best solution, I'm not sure. I think we have to put in place measures that help all teachers to stay and to thrive. I have to say, I think the Council of State was a bit cleverer in what he focused most on in his post. There are some keywords left: teacher training, requirements, admission requirements, study credits, admission. I miss a bigger focus on the job as a teacher. It's about getting challenges in the job you have, yes. It's about raising your skills, yes, but it's also about having pride and integrity in your own field. I think it's also about having the freedom to take own, independent pedagogical assessments, that you can control your own pedagogical teacher's day-to-day life. Most of all, I think it's about having enough time – time to make a difference. I also believe, as the Council of State has focused on in the media, that it can be about career paths. But it's only on one condition: that career paths contribute to more men in the classroom, and that it doesn't contribute to more men moving into other specialised positions. If we get to that, we get to a greater focus on the teacher's everyday life, better teachers' working conditions, I think we automatically get with the men as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1236	That's an interesting question the representative Asheim is raising. The final statistics for the 2013 Coordinated Recording show, as said, that 3,254 men had teacher training as their first choice, while 7,333 women had a similar desire. The Progress Party believes it is important to have clear role models for both boys and girls. A good teacher is a good role model. The gender distribution in the teacher's corps is important here. There is currently an overweight of women in school, which means that in many cases students have no contact with male teachers. It may be particularly unfortunate for many boys and may well be a factor that plays a role in poor school results. Gender differences in literacy skills are worrying and far greater in Norway than in most other OECD countries, although reading figures here is a bit cautious — among others. the greatest difference between fictional literature and little or no difference in the case law. However, there are clearly many differences in Norwegian schools, among others. in the case of parental involvement, but the major problem is that there are boys with a weaker social background who are really struggling. There are many more boys than girls who are not functional readers after primary school. It will be difficult for them both to take vocational training and to have a long and permanent link with Norwegian working life. There's a combination of many things that make more boys than girls struggling in school. Responsibility for your own learning can mature girls handle fine, but for boys with some school problems, group work and responsibility for your own learning can be directly counterproductive. In group work, you learn to work together, you don't necessarily learn a subject. The theoretically powerful students are horrified to do the job for the intellectually weak, and the intellectually weak learn nothing from the fact that the theoretically powerful students do the job for them. Strong and clear classroom management is important for all students, but especially important for those who are struggling at school. Teachers must therefore pay attention to the quiet and order of the classroom, and school leaders and school authorities must take this seriously and ensure that teachers have penalties and opportunities to achieve peace and order in classrooms. The government's efforts to strengthen the skills of teachers and to increase the status of the teaching profession are also an important part of giving teachers the authority they deserve. Strengthening teacher training, including: through master’s degree, requirements for immersion in the basic subjects Norwegian, English and math, and greater emphasis on feedback culture are measures that will contribute to better school performance. After studying about 6,000 educational research studies, Dansk Clearinghouse summarizes that there is a link between professionally qualified teachers and the student's learning outcomes. High expertise gives confidence in your own abilities, a freer approach to the subject and more varied teaching. British Sutton Trust has just published a report where they're trying to answer what gives good learning. They point out that there is strong evidence that teachers’ expertise and educational knowledge are important factors. So here we know something about some of the nucleus. I think the quality of the teachers is more important than the teacher's sex. We are against discriminatory measures such as the extra credit for gender, quotas, etc., and the Progress Party believes – unlike the inter-pellant Asheim – that the best way to get more men to apply for the teaching profession is through a steady and good commitment to the teaching profession. Status enhancement, the introduction of a master’s degree and a number of other measures currently in progress could in the long run improve the gender balance in school, although the opposite will not lead to more women seeking, as the interpellant argued.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1255	First, I want to thank the representative Asheim for putting an important issue on the agenda. We often discuss issues where it is about undercovering women in different professions, and therefore it is very important that we also discuss issues where there is a shortage of men. As the interpellant has pointed out, there has been a decline in the number of male teachers in the last ten years, as well as the double number of women applying for teacher training. A research report says that gender should not have an impact on boys’ performance, but it is nevertheless important to get more men to join in initial training. Today, as has been said before, most women are employed in childhood and most men are employed in childhood. Why it's like that and what we can do about it, I think we all want to find answers to it. If it's simple and perhaps eye-catching, I think there's actually a simple reason why fewer men than women choose to become teachers: a position that teaches at primary school today no longer has its main source in what we used to call a call or idealism. Today, young people choose occupations according to what they think they are suitable for, plus from an expectation of what kind of salary they can earn. I think, unfortunately, that there are a lot of guys who choose the teaching profession because it doesn't pay off well enough and doesn't have enough status in society. Wages and salaries are negotiated locally, but I certainly believe that the status of teachers will not increase significantly if we do not raise the salary. It's so simple and so difficult. Therefore, a teacher’s vow should consist not only of an expectation of increasing the skills of teachers but also of an expectation of increased pay, so that one can compete with more provocative professions, such as real estate agents and oil workers. But I also think that the interpellant is right that it might take a little longer for some boys to realize what kind of value the teaching profession actually has. Today's financial situation may also mean that we have more male teachers, who can secure a safe job in the future. I also think that there is a concern – as several have mentioned – that there are many male teachers who opt out of the small school stage. There's a paradox at a time when more and more men choose to take out their famous cardboard. I think there are many men who, as they have paperwork, experience that they can contribute in a very good way and lay a valuable foundation in the young person's life. The same is true if you can train to teach in kindergarten and in primary school. We know there are many men who are happy to play. Many of these we're actually watching on TV. But for those who have an unsolved potential, the school is a good venue for running out of their creative ideas: playfulness, but combined with learning away, as the council was also about. Didactics: How do you learn about numbers? What is a letter? What is it to read? This is very important, and there is no difference between play and learning – on the contrary. We should have had more games, even up in the higher class steps. It is a challenge for students to risk living in a ‘uniform society’ for many years. Kids can risk growing up with only mother and female teachers and no male role models. It's not desirable. Everyone agrees that the teacher is essential for how each student learns and develops. It's very scary to think about what responsibility it is for the teacher. But female teachers and male teachers hit different points in the different students. Both female and male teachers also enrich a college in a classroom – just like here in Stortinget. We get better at being different. We think differently, and we have different sex. Interpellant asks what measures can be taken to get more men to apply to and stay in school. There are many good measures that have already been mentioned: We have to have national campaigns that show men the benefits of and all the positive aspects of working at school. We have to encourage school owners to be conscious when they assign their teachers. School owners must also have an overview of the gender balance in their municipality. Not everyone has, despite the fact that they're busy getting more men added. School owners must also be conscious when recruiting as assistants in the SFO, in the PPT, etc. We also need to focus on men not only need to think about the higher steps when they want to educate themselves as teachers. We also need them in the lower steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1290	I think it is important that it be widely recruited for any profession to exercise authority in a society. Whether you're going to be a big-time politician – I hope it's a little authority related to being a politician, I'm a little insecure, but it should be – or a policeman or a woman, or if you're going to be recruited to the Norwegian defense, all these positions are supposed to have authority in a society. If only one group is recruited – socially, culturally, or whatever it is – it undermines the authority of those positions. In this way, I believe teachers should also have authority, and therefore it should be recruited widely. There should not be one economic class, one cultural group or one sex recruited for the profession. Everyone sitting in a classroom should see a reflection of their seas at the catheter during school. That means that all the boys who go to school should see a male role model, all the girls should see a lady there, everyone with a migrant background should see a teacher with a migrant background, like a mirror image of their sail. We should ensure that the teaching staff reflects Norway on all the different indicators we have. We should do that because the teaching profession should have the authority it needs. When you're going to have authority in the classroom, you're going to have it for what you can, and what you've learned, but all the social backgrounds are going to be represented. It's probably like that, we just have to admit, that all the reasons that have been put forward by different representatives here today -- some reasons we're exaggerating, and some reasons we're actually muttering a little bit in the beard, linked to status and pay -- are probably right in the big, complex picture we see when we travel around Norwegian schools. But I want to bring forward an aspect that no one has talked about, and that's the management of the schools. I visit some hundred schools every year, and I have to admit that when I visit primary schools and meet teachers who have a good gender balance, it is usually schools with male principals. There are male principals who have on their agenda that they want great breadth in their staff, and who have striven to get to it. It's a kind of management that I think we're going to make up more -- that the principal is actually trying to make a variation in his own staff, so that it affects the working environment. I think a good gender balance in a staff affects the working environment very positively. It also challenges a lot of male teachers that I'm talking to, saying that if you're a male teacher in high school, you're assigned to the role of the school's police. In any conflict that gets a little tough, it's the one male teacher or one of the two male teachers in the teacher's staff being picked up to clean it up. I think that scares many young teachers away from that job in high school. So this is also a management challenge. It's a management challenge for the principal to create a school environment in which people thrive, and I think very many male teachers in high school are tired of being the school police, the one who cleans up when the big boys break down. I think it's much more important to build the teams from below, and then one will also create an environment in which it'll be exciting to work for young, newly-trained teachers. I think we need to look at all areas we have in order to increase the authority of the teaching profession, and that can make more people want a career in school. It's all about career paths and everything that the Council of State took up in their answers, but basically it's about holding on to those who, inside, have a driving force for how exciting and funny this job really is. But it requires that they have good bosses, who see them and lift them, and who make sure that they get a role in both the classroom and the schoolyard with which they thrive, and in which they can develop professionally. Then you have to have a good, complex work environment in each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1305	I would like to thank those who have taken part in this debate for a good and constructive debate. The representative, Thinning Bjørnø, was well aware that it would be a good start if those who were teachers did not address the Stortinget, but instead continued to be teachers. I can see that there have been three trained teachers who have participated in this debate – two women and one man, so the numbers are also right here. Gender balance is a debate in many professions, and we see it – with the opposite sign – in the health and care sector. But I think the importance of the teaching profession being something more than just a job makes this an important debate. The gender balance in the teacher's corps has something to say about how students learn and what role models they meet. Then I have to say that the representative Skei Grande's point is extremely important. Like Skei Grande, I have the pleasure of traveling a lot around and visiting schools. For example, if you visit the health care system, you have the impression that there are too many managers, there are too many who decide, while at school I sometimes have the impression that there are few, or that there are no ones who decide, and that it starts to float out a little bit. The good principal can do extremely much to recruit, not just into school in general, but into his school. In conclusion, I am pleased that it seems that there is quite a broad consensus in this Chamber that the most important thing is not new gender points, quotas or, for that matter, specific attitude campaigns. I think the most important thing to do in recruiting both women and men for the teaching profession is what the Right Party government is doing now, that it has the status promise, the knowledge promise in the school, and makes it easier for teachers to learn. I also hope that a consequence of that promise is that more men see the importance of becoming teachers. It'll be good both for school and for the students, and I think a lot more men will get a very rewarding job if they apply for the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1316	Thank you very much for a good debate and many good points. This is also related, generally speaking, to a discussion of how we recruit into school. I am convinced that the only way to increase recruitment to school in the long term is to increase the performance of the teaching profession. It's about some things that aren't determined in this room, but it's also about that it's wrong to think about weakened demands, then it's wrong to think that we're not going to develop career functions in school, then it's wrong to think that we're not going to have clear demands, and that we're not going to put knowledge in the high seat. I think a hypothesis that's worth persecuting is whether it's that the primary school is perceived as less professionally challenging for a teacher than steps up. I think that's wrong, I think it's a myth. The basis for good professional development is laid at the level of the children. That doesn't mean that you don't have to be happy in children too if you're going to work with children, but that's not qualification enough. I would like to say a thousand thanks to the interpellant who addresses an important issue. I also think this issue is related to what we discussed in another interpellation a short time ago, that is, why boys lag behind in school, why several of those who both fall out of high school and do it badly in central school are boys. At the same time, we see that the girls are now taking over former human bastions. It's a positive news, but at the same time we have to be aware of those who are slowing down. At the end of the day, I want to tell the representative Thinning Bjørnø that as a representative from Telemark and Right I will at least do my utmost at the next election so that we can recruit one male teacher back to the good schools in Porsgrund municipality!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1330	Then there's case no. 8 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1346	The hours of art and crafts are good for the head, said a bunch of fourth-graders in connection with the work of the report The art of the possible. In 2013, the red-green government set up an expert group to look at the place of the arts and cultural subjects in the training. The expert group delivered its ten recommendations in the report entitled The Art of the Possibility to the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Culture about a year ago. In summary, the advice concentrates on recognising the value of cultural and creative competences. The expert group expresses, inter alia: concern for the large number of teachers teaching in the arts and craft sector without vocational training. We also see the same trend in physical exercise, food and health and music. All of these subjects have a practical input into knowledge. You learn by seeing, by doing, by molding and taking on — school subjects that many students experience as something else. The expert group spoke with many students in their work on the art of the possible. On one occasion they talked to some eighth graders who were at the animation workshop in charge of the cultural school bag. A student said the enthusiasm: this is very fun, quite different from the school. So the student got the following question: So it's not school then? The answer came quickly: No, school is when we sit and do tasks in writing. In the social debate, it is sometimes seen that the practical and theoretical approach to knowledge is opposed to each other. I mean it's serious -- seriously because it represents a narrow view of knowledge, because it's a knowledge view that excludes something that doesn't give all the same starting points for learning. Why has it been like that? I think it's a matter of perception that some societal signals present some competences and skills as more important than others, that we consistently use the concept of "basic science" about Norwegian, math and English, and that we talk more about results in basic science than about important competences and skills. I think it's about the competence of teachers, that some teachers see that it's not a priority when they want professional filling, that you see that there's been fewer loopholes in the art and craft hall, and that the struggle for the crowns to buy the needle and thread has increased. I am not saying that this is everywhere, but we get some alarming situation descriptions from some places. We see it when we map the professional competence of those who teach in the practical-esthetic subjects. We see it in the hour distribution that the time it is taught in the practical-esthetic subjects has been less compared to the earlier ones. But e.g. In Finland, we see a reverse trend. Some may say – and I have even heard it from some representatives of the government parties, especially when it comes to continuing training of teachers – that we must take the most important thing first. Policies are priorities. I've heard that, and I've heard it. But it's not always that easy, and it's not always a proper teaching in school, at least not if the result is that schooling is set up against each other. Everything hangs with everything, once said a wise lady. This becomes quite clear if you take a look at the curriculum objectives, for example in math, art and crafts and exercise, and compare them. In math, the following syllabus objectives are formulated after the seventh year: ‘construct model houses on a scale based on their own work plans’. In art and crafts, this curriculum objective is formulated after the seventh year: ‘use a scale to calculate distances and to create simple maps and work drawings’. I think it's a good idea to read other things out of these two almost identical curriculum objectives than that the subjects have to be seen in context and bet on each in their own way. It can have consequences if you say that some of these are more important than others. Because it may be that the student who left a little while while counting on blue tasks in the third hour and scale in the math book gets a completely different experience when you have the theme of architecture in the arts and crafts class, or, for that matter, orientation in the gym, then supplemented with the curriculum goal in body practice: «orientate yourself by means of maps in known terrain». The renowned Australian professor of creativity, Anne Bamford, has repeatedly underlined the value of rapprochement with knowledge in many different ways. She is quite clear in her speech when she says the following: In Norway you are told that to get better in math you need more math tasks. Her point is that we forget something on the way, that we think too abruptly, and that we don't build up the whole child. She goes on to say, if a child doesn't like spinach, you won't make the child like it better by giving it even more spinach, but if you bake it into a pie, yeah, then it might be like that. A simple, straightforward and understandable example. Anne Bamford calls this the "wow" factor, and maybe we have a little too few "wow" experiences in school. Maybe this is some reason why we see the motivation for schoolwork falling from the fifth grade. Let's be clear: for me, this isn't about making sure that everything is cool and fun. But it's about giving students better opportunities to understand, recognize and understand. The government-run sample led by Sten Ludvigsen has been commissioned to assess the extent to which the school covers the competences that students will need in the future. It's an exciting job that's about to end. Already, the sample has pointed to some of the most important future competences. There is specific competence, competence in learning, competence in communicating, interacting and participating, and competence in exploring and creating. I think this is a good selection of defined competences for the future school. Otherwise, creativity, innovation, critical thinking and problem solving are emerging as key characteristics for future citizens. The practical-esthetic subjects at school are central to all these competences – as professional competences themselves, but also to learning to learn and communicate and to explore and create. The Labour Party enters into these discussions with anticipation and optimism, but with the assumption that it is followed up politically. Speaking of following up politically: one thing is the discussion of future competences and the future school. Something else is what we can do here and now, for example. when we talk about the art, the culture and the place of creativity in school and the follow-up to the art of the possible. It is ready, hopefully on the Council of State's table, and there it lies in approx. a year. That's why I'm a little afraid that the Council of State is a little less impatient than I am in this field – yes, maybe a little impatient at the other end. This is why I end the interpellation and this article with the following questions: How far has the Council of State come in following the art of the possible, and what measures will the government propose to strengthen creativity and raise the practical aesthetics of the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1382	Let me start by saying that I fundamentally disagree with the student in the representative Thinning Bjørnø's story. I can understand that the student might think that school, that's when we sit and solve problems individually, while doing something else is not about school. But the practical-esthetic subjects are nothing else. They are a central part of the school, and that must be the starting point for this debate as well. I agree that we have some challenges. It shows the statistics of the Statistical Central Bureau on teaching skills in the subject. We have also received a clear message from the expert group that delivered the report The art of the possible. Practical knowledge and skills must be rehearsed over time in performing and skill-based subjects such as music, dance and drama, art and crafts, in body training and in food and health. This is also done with the skills objectives of the various disciplines and with the subjects well integrated in the professional and hourly distribution. In this context, it is also important to bear in mind the responsibilities of municipalities and county councils, that they have the primary responsibility to ensure the relevant competence of teachers who teach practical and aesthetic subjects. But the state can and will see how these subjects get into the review of teacher training, when it is to be extended to five-year masters. I can understand those who say that these subjects are under pressure. Estonian subjects must be offered in the continuing training strategy Quality Competence and within the scholarship system. One of the problems has not been that the offers are not there, but that the search is low. There are offers that are there, but there are few teachers who are applying. The acceptance rate from the municipalities is quite straightforward, but we have problems filling up the places. In addition, the State can assess whether we should impose specific requirements on competence in order to teach in aesthetic subjects also at the secondary and secondary stages. I am basically in favour of having competence and depression in the subjects in which you teach, in any case. I believe that this is a good principle. Then there are some practical challenges that we have to face, including: in order to give all schools a real chance of having such requirements of competence also at the secondary and secondary levels. It has to be investigated in more detail. We have initially prioritised competence requirements in Norwegian, mathematics and English for primary school teachers, but I will in no way deny that we can also propose skills requirements in other subjects. The school owners, who are responsible, should employ teachers who have a deeper understanding of aesthetics to teach at all levels of training, even if specific qualifications are required in the field only in the upper secondary and upper secondary education. Here I also believe that the societal debate and the big debate play a role in saying something about the quality and content of the subject is no less important in terms of practical-esthetic subjects than in terms of, for example, the quality and content of the subject. Norwegian and math. The Ministry has also launched a research project led by the NIFU to look at the quality, content and relevance of the preparatory education programmes. This research project also includes education programmes for music, dance and drama. In parallel, we have commissioned the Education Directorate to assess the subject, curriculum and structure of the education programme. We shall also do so for professional programmes, together with the social partners. We have also transformed the field of design into a study-preparing programme. It's now out at the hearing. We want to transform the design subject into our own educational programme called art, design and architecture, in line with the recommendations we have received. So the representative, Mr. Thinning Bjørnø, specifically asks about the follow-up to the advice we received in the report The art of the possible. I can assure the representative Thinning Bjørnø that we are in the process of follow-up. Let me go through it a little bit systematically. The report gave ten very specific advice. Some of them were more eaten than others, but I'm going to go through them anyway. Councils 1 and 2 deal with political attention and the importance of involvement at all levels of leadership. Among other things, we have Question to school leaders and school owners in Questions to School-Norway about how they work with, for example: The cultural school system, and how work is linked to work in the cultural schools. The questions are out of this spring and will provide us with a good basis for seeing cultural competence at school level more holistically. Councils 3, 4 and 8 are about seeing the activities of the cultural school and the activities of the cultural school bag more comprehensively — getting a better integration between the cultural intention of the cultural school bag and the school interest — i.e. being part of the school's work on the skills objectives. We need to strengthen cooperation at all levels between the sectors and learn from the cultural schools that work well with the Cultural School. Council 5 indicates that the expert group proposes better use of resources by co-localising and coordinating activities with schools. This rather lenient wording conceals a proposal for a quite major change. It is about several professional environments in both the education and cultural sectors, and I can assure you that there is a central work going on between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge. In this context, we also assess how national centres should be further developed. The work on art and culture today has its own national centre in Bodø, which we also assess. The national centre is the number of schools that report their use, compared with many other national centres. Council 6 is about supporting the development and quality of local culture. We're also working on this. Council 7 is about professional competence, I have already mentioned that. Council 9 calls for a more predictable and clearer profile for the cultural education campaign. The cultural school is primarily a municipal responsibility, and I believe that many municipalities work well with it. We also follow the work of the Norwegian School of Culture Council, which is working on a new framework plan for cultural school activities, where wide-ranging services for all, opportunities for immersion and talent bets are more clearly profiled. There is also something the Ministry of Culture is concerned about. We are concerned that the skills developed in the cultural schools can be involved in the work on the cultural school system and the quality of artistic and cultural work in schools. Council 10 is about raising awareness and knowledge of the professions and occupations which require professional training in crafts or higher artistic education. That's an important point. Occupations requiring cultural and artistic competence are growing steadily. In addition, there are professions requiring vocational training in crafts. Overall, the Council gives a clear reminder of the link between primary and secondary practical subjects. In particular, it is important to see the practical subjects in primary school as a motivational subject for those who may subsequently choose vocational courses. It is not least a point worth noting for the counselling and guidance services. Again, there is every reason to raise the issue: are the practical-esthetic subjects going well enough? I mean we're on our way, but we still have a bit to go, and we have to do even more than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1420	I thank the Council of State for its response, but I think we have to admit that at some point, the greater and more targeted action must be taken than what we have put into action together for now, but also more than what the Council of State describes is being done with the report The art of the possible. We can control if we want, if we think that's right. One example is the continuing training of teachers. Now we're using huge sums, big sums on it, larger than ever, and there's cross-political agreement on prioritizing it. It gives a great opportunity to lift all the professional skills in school. Here, the government has directed the bet on some subjects, but I record that it is not done, or sketched at least, some concrete measures that will increase the competence of the practical-esthetic subjects in particular. But we are also going to get into the next case. I also note that the ten specific recommendations of the expert group that have produced the report entitled "Art of the Possibilities". The answer is this: we work on – or – this is what we consider primarily a municipal responsibility. In particular, I would like to present the first advice to the expert group: ensure political attention and commitment to the arts and culture at all levels of leadership – use the guidelines. Then it is a little defensive to ask only a question to school leaders and school owners. I should also have liked to have heard more about both concrete measures and the visions of the government regarding the cultural school system and the cultural school. We saw one example in the State budget last year – an unfortunate act when it came to financing the cultural spaser for the elderly. I hope we're not going to see the same trend in school. In particular, I would like to end by mentioning what the Council of State also mentioned at the end – the advice of the group of experts on raising awareness and knowledge of professions requiring professional training in crafts or higher artistic education. In recent years, the NHO’s competence survey has shown that practical competence is becoming more important and more sought-after. It's a clear signal that we need to think more of head and hands as equivalent parties. I look forward to the debate and hope that it will contribute to raising the practical-esthetic subjects, whether they are about the professional objectives, about the groundwork, the visual, the craft, the creative or the physical.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1429	As I said, I agree with much of the reality description of the representative Thinning Bjørnø, and I also agree that we should do our utmost to get attention to the benefits, the peculiarities, the practical-esthetic subjects – how important they are as a natural part of the school's mission and the school as it should be, and also what basis they can provide for future education. At the same time, I also believe that, on the part of the government, we have a responsibility not to overlook the sector with priorities of everything at the same time. This means that for a period now it has been right to focus mainly on the main and first steps taken by the government. It also means that when e.g. There is still a lot of work to do with content and ensuring that quality is good enough everywhere, so we can start a job with participation in the practical-esthetic subjects. But I mean – if you say to the sector that right now everything is equally important, right now we really haven't prioritised anything – that then we also have to take things in the right order. Order is important. As far as the cultural school bag is concerned, there's a tension where I think we have to contribute to solving, and that's the tension between the cultural school bag as a cultural expression into the school and the cultural school bag as part of the school's usual activities. Our perspective and our position are very clear, and it's that the cultural school bag is a great offer, but it has to be part of the school's business. It must be linked to the school’s objectives of competence in some way, possibly to some of the general objectives — if you have to. It's the one challenge, and there's been a tension; it's not going to hide on. The second challenge is: Is there enough force behind the environments that govern the interaction between school and cultural life? Today, actors are scattered in different places; they are not co-located. We have a centre in Bodø that does a lot of good, the intentions behind it are good, but we see that they are not used well enough in the sector. It's a work that we're doing with the Ministry of Culture now. I will not conclude in advance with what we will end up with. The sample recommended was to set up a kind of national centre, reinforced compared to what was in Bodø, and that it should be in Oslo. I also believe that our duty then is to assess some other perspectives, namely whether it is right to move even more from the north to the south. That's also something we have to take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1442	First, thank you to the interpellant for bringing these subjects up for debate. I've had the pleasure of meeting students who train as physical trainers for the past year, and I want to pass on some of the recordings I've got from them. The trade was introduced in 1848 and has been mandatory since 1936. Those who walked in front of us realized that physical activity was good for learning, and we are concerned that the students should learn the best and the most possible today, and therefore the subject should be as relevant now as it was 167 years ago. Physical activity has an impact on mental health, and in a situation where we are constantly receiving concerns about students and students struggling with mental distress, this subject is also important in this way. One of the main objectives of the curriculum for body training is to inspire the students into a physically active lifestyle and lifelong motion joy. Body training differs from other subjects. It is about physical effort, but it should also be general. The development of the social competence of the student is central. Relationships, communication and cooperation are required. Creating tolerance, respect and a safe class environment is something the subject can contribute to. In addition, it strengthens the student's concentration, has a positive impact on the student's efforts and indirectly improves the student in other subjects. There is a need to work together physically in good time towards a common goal. It gives challenges to creativity, ability to think quickly and take action. Unlike theoretical subjects, the student will learn something about pushing himself both physically and mentally to provide more, courage to do his own limits and overcome physical challenges. The profession creates diversity in school life and has great opportunities for interdisciplinary learning. Yesterday we heard about Trudvang school, which believes that physical activity is important, that it can be linked to many subjects, and that it prevents bullying. The students I've talked to are happy to start their professional career, they are happy to share their knowledge of health and lifestyle. They want students to be able to have positive experiences with their own bodies, they want to be involved and contribute to mastery, to increase self-confidence and give them the inspiration to lead an active life-style throughout their lives. But they have some concerns about how the subject works today. First of all, this kind of interpellant is being employed for the least part of professional education. This means that the subject is treated with some form of voice, and many people tell us about little thought. A student says this after his period of practice, ‘I was a little surprised when the teacher thought it was a bit of a jump and a jump.’ In other words, it takes too little seriously. Open objectives allow teachers to do whatever they want in the field. There are some guidelines from the Education Directorate, and teachers are given responsibility for making local curricula. Some people do a great and good job, but it becomes personalised and up to the individual school region how it is done, and there is no control that the plans are being followed up, or that they meet the requirements for the purpose of the curriculum. It is also told about schools that do not make local plans, but only relate to an annual plan, and the problem, according to the students, is that the system allows it. Today, physical exercise is to be assessed by skill, effort and knowledge, but how teachers weigh the three factors is quite up to them. Then there will be big differences and very different characterization. Therefore, a national curriculum should be developed that addresses all aspects of the subject – objectives, assessment criteria, etc. The teacher must continue to have the freedom to choose the course, but the subject would become fairer and provide better guidance on how to conduct the course. Such a plan should be developed by our leading body trainers and researchers. It should be evaluated and improved every year by bringing together all body training teachers in each municipality, providing input to the counties, which then sends feedback to the national sample. Some of the students I have spoken to believe that characterisation does not help to promote the purpose of the subject. Ratings often cause the focus to be on who jumps the highest and runs the fastest. This can lead to a negative relationship with the body and mastering of poor grades, which in turn may affect self-esteem. The focus must be on creating joy over mastering and using your own body in different ways. Then perhaps passed/failed, with feedback about the student's strengths and weaknesses, a better method. I'm going to think that my student friends, who are now following us online, are excited about the state council's comments on this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1465	Today we are dealing with two interpellations that focus on the practical-esthetic subjects in the school. Interpellant Thinning Bjørnø points in this context in his question in particular to the follow-up to the report The art of the possible. I think the Minister of Knowledge had a good review of the ten points of action that were recorded by the expert group and responded well to the other measures. Just like the Minister, I agree that the practical-esthetic subjects have a central role to play in lifting students' professional, practical and creative abilities as a whole. In his article, the interpellant also introduced didactic strategies into other subjects. In this way, I have to agree that it is important that we all have a focus on how we can make the school as relevant, practical and therefore interesting to all students, so that everyone gets the mastery feeling. It is interesting to see how school owners solve these challenges differently, for example, there are 8–13th-schools that try to ensure the transition between secondary and secondary education in a sensible, creative and good way, and that provide many opportunities for young people, especially in high school, to gain practical insight through the equipment and opportunities available from higher education. Access to competent teachers will, of course, be crucial in this context. The government's commitment to teachers through teacher training, but also through the great promise it now has of continuing training skills for quality, is therefore an important contribution to achieving our objectives of creating a better school within the practical and aesthetic disciplines. Most of it is connected, which also Thinning Bjørnø was in. These initiatives, together with increased demands, also provide increased search for teacher training, and not least we see that the very great promise of continuing training offers contributes to enormous search. The reduction of the local authorities’ ownership combined with increased temporary allowances has made it possible for school owners to give priority, among other things. the practical-esthetic subjects much easier. I will therefore support the Minister of Knowledge's call to our school owners and further substantiate it. There is no need to hire teachers without desirable skills. It is fully possible to have further training plans that ensure the build-up of lack of competence, and the best of all, which I just pointed out through the economic promises made through competence and quality: this also does not burden the local government budgets very much, especially in view of the importance of succeeding in creating a school with a sense of mastery for all students, where more people complete and exist. That's good social policy. In any case, it is not a good argument that formal skills requirements are first available at the youth level. In the autumn, more than 5,600 teachers receive further training – a very high number and three times as many as a few years ago. The signals are also clear: this effort will continue to be given priority in the future. We will therefore probably see further positive developments in this area in the coming years, and at least if the municipalities do their priorities. It will therefore be interesting to follow developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1480	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, who is raising this important debate. I fully agree with the interpellant in his description of how the practical correction of the subject can provide students with better knowledge in other subjects. Personally, I would like to introduce a number of measures to strengthen creativity and raise the practical-esthetic subjects, such as the representative Thinning Bjørnø's demand. Cultural and creative competence is important. Arts and crafts, music, physical training, food and health, social sciences – the list of good and important subjects is long. Workers' party representatives have also asked for ICT bets in school, which is of course important in other subjects than a purely ICT subject. As the Council of State said in its statement, the ministry has started to follow up the advice of the possible art. But everything can't be done right away. The promotion party will give priority, and we are largely satisfied with the government's priorities: vocational training, teacher's lift and real-time vocational strategy. We can't escape the fact that Norwegian students make it weak in PISA measurements. Norwegian students are about on the OECD average in science and mathematics and are cutting lower in mathematics now than ten years ago. These results are not proportionate to the use of resources. As the Evening Post wrote on one of its front pages in the past: ‘After 10 years, 66 per cent more expensive school and 43 measures, the PISA results remain medium-sized.’ It is then the basic skills that must be given priority, the Progress Party believes. If you don't master the basics, you don't get anywhere either. How are we going to get the students to master the basics? This is done by prioritizing and introducing measures that we know work. Teachers are the school’s most important resource, and the government therefore places great emphasis on the Teacher Lift. This quality effort at school is supported by teachers and has also received considerable support from the OECD. Strengthening of teacher training, including, inter alia: requirements for immersion in the basic subjects and the introduction of master's degrees are an important step towards getting good teachers. In the field of vocational training, practical training relevant to the future occupation of students is important in order to increase the motivation of students and the ability to undertake secondary education. The measures taken by the government will contribute, overall, to more and earlier contact with the labour market and the profession they have chosen, which will also contribute to lower absenteeism. Experiments with the exchange model are extended, with students switching between training in school and training in a company throughout the training cycle. In addition, the allocation of accommodation facilities is increased where teachers are in charge of company and school instructors. This is how we get practical training both in the field of programming and in the community, as teachers get up-to-date knowledge from the profession in which they teach. The real science strategy will soon be launched. It will also include practical measures to increase real-time competence at all stages of the training cycle. These are large and costly measures, but the Progress Party believes it is important to put them in place. We will give priority to these measures. And we have to do that for years to come, we're going to succeed in getting a good school. When this is said, it is also important to clarify that school owners are responsible for the appropriate competence of teachers in the subjects in which they teach, and that they should therefore add to teachers who have depression in aesthetic subjects throughout the school cycle, even if it is only in high school and in higher education there is a requirement for competence in aesthetic subjects. The Progress Party is also positive that the government has started to follow up the recommendations of the possible art report. We look forward to further work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1509	I'll first of all thank the interpellant for traveling an important interpellant. The debate on the Norwegian school has been strongly influenced by the basic subjects for many years. We've heard about real science strategies, and we've heard about literacy strategies. All of this is well and good, but I think we should be a little careful, so that the practical-esthetic subjects don't get completely in the shade. I think we all agree on that. It's often the case that when we discuss mathematics, we all agree that we have to bet on mathematics, and when we debate Norwegian education, we all agree that we need to strengthen Norwegian education, and when we talk about the practical-esthetic subjects, we all agree, of course, that we also need to strengthen the practical-esthetic subjects. But here, in fact, there is a real need for a promise, and not least for an appearance in the political debate. The interpellant mentioned Anne Bamford, and it's very timely to do when this theme travels. Through her work, she pointed out that the countries that prioritise the practical-esthetic subjects at school also do well in the PISA tests. That's interesting. The Education Committee was in Singapore last year and visited some institutions there, where we were told that in that case this is a rule that is not without exception. For Singapore, it does very well in the PISA tests, but they have prioritised the practical-esthetic subjects very low. But even there they have now realized that betting on music, for example, is something that will contribute very positively to students' learning and development. The Council of State itself took the view that this is an important motivational subject for those students who want to move forward in a more practical direction. The research shows us that working with practical-esthetic subjects also has very many positive ring-effects. It will give students greater confidence, it can contribute to less absence, and it can ensure that students also do better in basic subjects and reading and writing. At the same time, I would like to stress that these subjects also have a self-esteem. They have a value in themselves, and while basic subjects are a crucial basis for further learning, I would say that for example. a subject such as music for many is a very important foundation in life itself. Anne Bamford also conducted studies in Norway and looked at the Norwegian initiative on these subjects. She points to some challenges, some weaknesses and some strengths, and the cultural school bag is a strength that we have to use in the right way. It is also a strength that we actually allocate some resources to cultural work in the municipalities, while some of the challenges and weaknesses are linked to cooperation, they are linked to the teachers' professional skills, they are linked to the position of the practical aesthetics in the everyday school life, and she also points out that PISA has shifted focus to the basics. The teacher's vow is one of the most important initiatives of the Solberg government in the field of education, and it's a good bet. It's important to continue training teachers, but then it's like a lot of those who teach in, for example. music in primary school, initially cultural teachers who also have a small position in primary school. I believe that it is important that we also succeed in lifting these teachers, and that cultural teachers also get to participate in the Teacher's Lift. It will help to ensure competence, it will help to ensure the motivation of these teachers, and I think it will help raise the status of teachers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1531	First, thank you to the representative Thinning Bjørnø, who addresses the practical-esthetic subjects at school. I am pleased to record that we are concerned with much of the same thing, and since I have the next interpellation, which is essentially about teaching competence, I will therefore now, in my article, focus on the practical-esthetic subjects and follow-up of the report The art of the possible, which was presented by the sample over a year ago. The red-green government set up this expert committee to look at how we could better coordinate and pool efforts in the work on art and culture in kindergarten and school. The result The possible art was handed over both the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Knowledge last spring. In my view, the Group has provided a good description of the challenge and pointed out the different actions that should be implemented. It is good that both the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture support the order for the report, and that they are both recipients and therefore also jointly responsible for the follow-up. But experience suggests that someone would like to take the lead, and the Council of State has said that he is responsible, and that he is following up. I want to ask a question to the Council of State: I wonder if the follow-up is such that the Storting will have the opportunity to discuss this report in any way other than what we do now, through an interpellation? I hope that the Council of State will respond to this and hope that we will also have the opportunity to discuss the practical-esthetic subjects and the arts and crafts when we may get some reports or matters to deal with here in Stortinget. There has been a growing concern in school that the position of the practical-esthetic subjects has been weakened. Following the conversion to the Knowledge Promise, the number of applicants for higher education who have applied for the practical-esthetic lines has fallen dramatically, particularly in the training subjects. Music, dance and drama go quite well, but a laborer with recruitment to the breeding subjects. The old subject's drawing, form and color recruited widely those who wanted to move on to a professional education, to an art career or to an academic education. I am therefore excited about the review of the study programmes adopted by the Stortinget almost two years ago, and look forward to the result and that we might also get back to it and discuss it in Stortinget. Many would think that it doesn't matter if there are no more people who choose to be a practical-esthetic education, considering that artists aren't what is needed most in the future. I think we're on dangerous roads if we're not leading were and take this problem seriously. Everything we surround ourselves with forms – from the day we open our eyes and newly-baked parents try to force back the old baby songs and toys that they once thought they had learned. Every conference I'm at has a cultural feature. All conferences have their own logos and materials that follow the conference. Everything we surround ourselves with material things is designed by someone, and then by someone other than our Lord, who kind of took care of the basic design. We want young people who are good in real science, who are good at expressing themselves verbally and in writing. We say we need them to go from the oil-based society to the green, renewable society. We need new technology to get there. We need young people who have the ability to think creatively, and who have the ability to work together and solve problems together. I think the representative Thorsen well described our different perception of what's important in school, and what we're going to do with the practical-esthetic subjects. Art challenges. Getting the opportunity to express itself through many possible expressions is important to stimulate creative abilities. If we're going to be good at something, we're going to have to practice, and that also applies in the practical-esthetic subjects. We're not going to be good at drawing if we don't practice, and we're not going to take our potential out if we don't have professionals who know what he or she's doing -- just like in every other subject. The interpellant shares the Central Party's concern for the other practical subjects at school, such as food and health and music. Body training is also mentioned, but there are more skilled teachers available in body training than in food and health, seams if they are closely linked. It will be crucial to ensure that there are professionals in the field of food and health, even at a time when it is reported that 60 pst. Norwegian men are already obese. If we are to solve global and national challenges in the future, young people need to learn to make good and healthy food. So I'd like to say a little bit about the cultural school bag, but the most important thing to say about it is that the offers given at school have to be met by professional competence at the other end. So there's got to be professional skills in school that can meet this if we're going to get the full benefit of the cultural school bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1553	It's not exactly a new issue we're discussing today. Neither the lack of professional competence in school nor the knowledge of how important these subjects are for learning are coming to us in a hurry. That report has now been given to the Council of State is not the first in history. There have been many such reports. There have been many research reports that have supported exactly what the interpellant addresses, and there have been many investigations. But it has always been a little difficult to reach the department, whether it has been run by SV or by the Workers' Party or by the Right. The really great promise within these subjects must be returned to when the Left controlled the department to find, and that is far too long ago! The view of the role of the practical-esthetic disciplines in achieving learning is enough disagreement in this room. That's what you notice. Everyone agrees that there is something called basic science, and that the most important thing is that you know basic subjects when you get out. But there's probably some disagreement that if you're bad at math and don't experience mastering in math, it's the only thing that helps, more math. I'm enough of the perception that if one is bad in math, if one doesn't master things in math, then it's important that you, as a teacher, let the children have mastering experiences in some way or other in other disciplines in order to master math. It is an important key to being able to achieve learning that children experience mastering. This is why it is important to have the breadth of the offer, and therefore the practical-esthetic subjects are important in order to achieve learning even in basic subjects. The second is that we in Norway are doing pretty bad on innovation, innovation and creativity. We have a rather innovative business life, but in the school and the way we organize the school, we're putting way too little into creativity. It hit us like a bomb when the first measurements came that showed that classrooms marked by much greater authoritarian anxiety for the teacher and classrooms with strict uniform usage, brought us kids with more creativity and innovation than what the Norwegian classroom does. It's a little warning for us. There has to be something about the way we make learning in classrooms that makes us not encourage the kind of creativity that more authoritarian structures actually get. That's why I think it's important that the practical aesthetics become part of the work of valuing innovation and creativity, which is going to be one of the most important competitive advantages for us in the future if we do. The third is that I believe that expertise is a strength in absolutely all areas. I've had a lot of teachers in art and forming, as it was in my childhood. The only art lessons I remember had with Elisabeth Balstad. She is a professional visual artist and has worked all her life as a visual artist with education from the Academy here in Oslo. One of the things that maybe made me remember that school year best is that she had an incredible authority in the classroom because she was an artist. She had education, she was a name that everyone in the area knew, and I was to have her in forming. I'm looking for that authority in every teacher's pursuit of their profession – whether it's in Norwegian, math, or if it's in design. What gives that authority is competence. Therefore, it is important that these subjects are not filled in with anyone who does not have an education, but who can always take care of the kids and let them draw a little. However, contributing to the competence of the subjects and the authority of the classroom and the ability to extend further is also about your professional competence. Then I'll join everyone who's worried about our food subjects. It's a dying generation, those who have education in this field specifically. It also worries me, at least in a stressful time when parents are not so good at conveying that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1568	Society needs people who are curious about all the knowledge and who are able to transform abstract theory into explanatory models. We need people who can combine old and new knowledge in ever new contexts and experience the joy of discovering that new forms occur. Therefore, we need to learn about all disciplines without defining which knowledge is more important than another. The big question is how best to get everyone to learn. Just as Norway had to expand hydropower first to start the aluminium industry in the West, so we also need to give the brain power — or energy — to lay the foundation for a knowledge industry. A teacher's challenge is to arouse curiosity. The challenge of a municipality is to have a good enough economy to facilitate relationships, for example: creative subjects. The question we have to ask ourselves today is whether we have a politically guided case of knowledge in the creative subjects. The aesthetic subjects are represented in the school today through, for example: music, theatre, drama, dance, art and crafts, Norwegian, math and media. These are subjects that are all important, but which we unfortunately experience have difficult – and not least bad – conditions in school life. We know that e.g. The cultural schools in Norway, which are accessible to some, are the ones that may best take care of cultural training. Therefore, it was important for the Workers’ Party to build the cultural nation of Norway by providing all children between 1 and 4. the opportunity to attend the cultural school. It was a measure that the new government quickly removed when they came to power. It's a wild policy, and it's a result of conservative school management. I hope that in the future we can talk about how we can facilitate the same status of creative subjects and provide a good political craft in advance of this. On Sunday, 2.5 million Norwegians go out into the streets. We need more banners in the future, and I hope we'll be able to arouse the interests of children and young people, so that they can carry that tradition and that craft on. The report The art of possibility, to which many have referred, must not be confused with the art of the impossible in school everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1581	I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important and interesting theme. In this context, creativity can be understood in a slightly different way. One can imagine the creative subjects – the aesthetic subjects, the musical subjects, etc. – or one can imagine creativity in a more general sense, and there are all subjects in general creative. There are no subjects that are more creative than others. The new idea can arise whether you're thinking about mathematics or thinking about music. During this debate, there is a kind of tension that is very fundamental to the Norwegian educational policy debate. I thought you could use the honours of the representative Liadal to give the aesthetic or creative subjects – creativity – the same status in school as other subjects. That could be the starting point for a pretty interesting discussion. What does that really mean? Does it mean, for example, that the creative disciplines have similar status to the classical measuring disciplines of mathematics, English and Norwegian, which have now gained an acquired status in Norwegian school? To that I have to say that in order for us to have a Norwegian school where creativity is the top goal of the whole school, where one sees creativity as part of learning, not as something that comes next, there must have been quite a change. There are two very different horses like a ride here. On the one hand, it is the horse where one should respond correctly to the tests and tests so that one should be measured in characters that should be comparable – between the schools, the principals, the teachers and the elephants. Then the goal is to answer right. Creativity is not about answering correctly, creativity is about responding unexpectedly. I've spent two years of my life researching creativity through my main science of philosophy. If there's any creativity, it's kind of a climax of all knowledge. It's when one might be creative in relation to knowledge. Then a really got it. So actually, the goal of all mathematics, all English, all Norwegian and all music should be to cultivate creativity and really get it up and down. But then the goal of the Norwegian school can't be to bet on what can be measured, what can be weighed, and what can be compared, because then one just gets what is right, then one doesn't get it unexpected. That's what prevents creativity, it doesn't promote creativity. So, the two horses: the one horse, where the goal is to respond correctly to tasks at any time. The other horse is the creative horse, the one that produces it unexpectedly, the new and often the shocking. The two horses cannot ride at the same time in Norwegian school if their goal is to give creativity high status. Creativity, when it comes to the piece, is closely tied to learning. Learning, the learning process itself, discovering something you haven't understood before, and understanding a new context; it's a creative process in itself. All learning, all the pedagogics that take place in the Norwegian school, are creative. We in SV have noticed the division from the Ludviksen selection. We thought this discussion was very interesting. We believe that once the Ludvigsen Committee has delivered its entire report in June of this year, this discussion can really take off. But here there are very important tensions for Norwegian school policy that we are going to engage heavily in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1598	I would also like to thank the participants in the debate. I think they have recognised in a fine way the value of the practical-esthetic subjects. We've been talking nice about the subjects, all of us. That's good. Then it really just remains that the talk becomes action. I have to say that I am not completely reassured by the answers to the Council of State when it comes to following up the ten concrete recommendations of the possible art. Both the Councils of State and the representatives of Gudmundsen and Thorsen are quick to shift responsibility to the municipalities or to say diffusely that the work has started, without saying what kind of work is going on, or mention specific actions. It is also said in this debate that priority must be given first, and therefore also to basic subjects. One argues not to bet on the practical-esthetic subjects now, precisely because it is something that is more important. I mean, it's getting too sloppy. So where is this going to be? Then the Council of State began to say that he did not agree with the students I referred to, who said that an animation workshop in charge of the cultural school bag was something other than ordinary school, because normal school was just theoretical, written tasks. Governments may disagree with that. The problem is that these eighth-graders are sitting with this opinion, and then it doesn't help much that the council disagrees. It's pretty serious when we have eight grades with such an idea of what you're doing at school. It says something about how they think they have organized the training. It worries me, and so should the Council of State. On that occasion I had hoped to get some clearer answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1609	Thank you very much for the debate, and thank you very much for your contributions. I believe that this debate has expressed a common concern for the practical aesthetic subjects. That's good, and we have to take that further. Then the representative, Mr. Thinning Bjørnø, is asking for clear answers. I think that when we say that we are working on something, it would be premature to come up with answers to conclusions that have not yet been drawn. But it must also be said that as an opposition party, there is no need in every case to wait for the Council of State to respond. I do not think there were strikingly many clear and clear views from the Labour Party in this debate either. Let me give you some examples. Competence requirements: now we're going to discuss it afterwards, too, in the next interpellation. I have not heard anything about the Workers' Party wanting to introduce competence requirements into the practical-esthetic subjects in the small and intermediate stages. I've said I'm open to it. But I've said that because of practical challenges, I think we should give priority to the three subjects we've prioritised now, first. I don't know whether the Workers' Party is in order for us to have competence requirements for all teachers in Norwegian, English and mathematics – it might be interesting to hear something about it. The cultural school bag: It's good to have increased attention around it, but I didn't hear anything about what the Workers' Party's concrete solution was to the cultural school bag. For example, if you wish: to establish a national centre in Oslo to strengthen the cultural school system and to strengthen interaction between the cultural part and the school part, to put it a little simple? Nor did I hear the Workers' Party say anything concrete about one of the most obvious recommendations in the report The art of the possible, namely that one should lay down the centre in Bodø and move this environment of competence to Oslo. It's also allowed to provide input and advice to the council even if you're in opposition. Apart from this, I agree very much with what Mr. Thinning Bjørnø said, but I needed to say this. At the end of the day, I must admit that I was a little overshadowed by some of the comments made by the representative of Fylkesnes. The first thing that hit me was 1+1. A surprising answer to that would be 3. The correct answer is 2. So in other words, creativity as a surprising answer can not be alone a sufficient criterion. I always wonder what you think when you talk about what can be measured and weighed in school. Let's keep the weight out, I don't know that there's so much going on. But one of the things we're trying to check is whether students in the fifth grade have learned to write, and whether they can read. So if you're going to be creative, if you're going to be able to even have a chance to participate in the many practical aesthetics, you have to be able to read. Then I think it's important that we check it in the fifth grade – not because the measurement itself is important, but because reading is a basis for all the other knowledge you have to acquire in school, including in the crucial practical-esthetic subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1626	Case No. So 9 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1642	We are born curious and creative, and for us to become functional people, our creativity and curiosity are stimulated in the first years of life. But in our civilised societies, our creative abilities are stimulated less as we get older, and especially when we start school. The question is, how can we think that we can train the creatively thinking young people that we know we need in the future, if we don't care to rehearse, stimulate and enable them to think creatively? The Ludvigsen Committee says so far that we need future labour in a global working life that is good at communication, cooperation, creativity and problem-solving ability. If we are to achieve innovation and entrepreneurship, we need good basic knowledge in language and real science, but we also need the educational core of the arts and crafts: creativity, cooperation and deep learning. Following the change in teacher training in 2010, teacher training institutions have worked intensively with both professional and organisational work. And the shipping of the representative Skei Grande in the previous interpellation debate showed that we have had several reports with concern for the practical-esthetic subjects, I think the interpellation text in a good way showed that there has been a disturbing development in that area over the last 15 years. After the government change, teacher training institutions have continued to work towards a goal of a five-year teacher training course with new requirements. I guess the government has a majority for the five-year teacher training, sail if it's not voted against in this house. The centre party wants, as we know, another device, where we maintain a four-year basic training course with a master's addition. In all subjects, it is important for teachers who have competence in the subjects in which they are to teach, as well as in the arts and in the practical subjects of physical training and food and health. Esthetic learning processes, creativity, insight and unfolding play a major role in all subjects. Art science is therefore important in itself, but also for all other subjects in school. The teacher's knowledge in Norwegian combined with e.g. knowledge of the arts provides the general practitioner with an opportunity to support learning processes in different ways. The teacher can give the students depression in the various disciplines. The fourth report of the accompanying group on teacher training highlights the challenge of the practical-esthetic subjects in a separate chapter and concerns about recruitment and weathering. The division of teacher training into 1 to 7 and 5 to 10 has challenged these subjects. The subjects are precious, and it may seem that they have become a little down-priority at individual teacher training institutions, since there are other subjects that are considered the most important and that are premiered outwardly. The centre party is concerned that the professional environments of the various teacher training institutions are going to be confused and die when there are fewer and fewer primary school teachers who choose art as part of their background. It's worrying that 70 pst. by teachers under the age of 30 who teach art and crafts in primary school, do not have a single point of study in the subject. In fact, unfortunately, this has become the subject where teachers have the least formal competence, and I am deeply concerned about it. Through a series of articles in the last year, Bergen’s Official Journal has highlighted the challenge of the arts at school, and honour them for it. It is difficult for this subject to reach through the sound wall when most run in flocks and are concerned with measurements and weighings in Norwegian, math and English. It is therefore commendable when a large newspaper goes deep and draws attention to subjects that some consider to be somewhat unimportant customs subjects that do not contribute to value creation and to the ‘knowledge society’. The educational plan for art and crafts contains competence objectives like other subjects, and it is not small business either. Students are still expected to have access to both sewing machine, clay and various tools and tools in addition to the digital one. But to have the effect of teaching, it's essential that the teacher knows what she's doing. If we believe that the curriculum should be fulfilled, teachers must have sufficient competence to achieve the curriculum objectives of both visual communication, design, art and architecture. It is therefore a serious problem that we in school today do not have the required teaching skills, nor does it seem to be given sufficient emphasis either by school owners or when applying for continuing education. But it's not just the teacher's skills it lacks. There are many schools that also lack space, and I am concerned that new schools today can actually be built without rooms adapted to the arts and crafts subjects. What signals does this give, and where is it really going to be? The practical-esthetic disciplines have as a common feature that subjects will preserve and develop cultural expressions, but also develop them further. In order to do this, we need competent teachers, we need rooms in the school that are adapted to the craftsmanship, and we need time to learn the skills that are needed to contribute to conservation and development. All over the world, politicians are involved in school measurement. We're comparing ourselves to each other in international tests. We want the students to be as good as possible. It is the so-called knowledge society that is our future commodity that is going to take us to the green shift. They also say the same thing in Singapore, as the representative of Tyvand pointed out, and in Finland. We want entrepreneurship and innovation, and at the same time we deprioritise the creative subjects. It's a paradox. It's been shown to British professor Anne Bamford in the past, and I do too. She has, for example, made schoolchildren around the world more aware of what students are able to learn when they also use their skills to shape, create and express themselves artistically. She has, as mentioned earlier, conducted a survey of the status of the practical-esthetic subjects in the Norwegian school in the winter of 2010/2011, and she concluded that everyone wants more of the subjects, but that it is the very opposite that happens. The fag will not be given priority. Not only in teacher training, but also in youth, the position of the trade is weakened. Here we politicians have to take maritime criticism. The centre party believes that we need to consider setting skills requirements in order to teach in practical-esthetic subjects. I hope the Council of State will assess this in the work on future teacher training, so we'll see both pro and versus when it comes to this. The central part is essentially positive to it. Two weeks ago, my adviser and I were on a study trip to the United States to get input into the work of putting the practical-esthetic subjects on the agenda, and we thought we got good input, sail if the subject too has its challenges. From the visits to institutions that have good, and perhaps world leaders, practices, we also got good examples back. «Think like an artist» is the motto of Lincoln Center Education, not any institution of art and culture, which has world-leading institutions under its umbrella. Art cultivates a unique set of skills that are indispensable to problem-solving, cooperation, communication, imagination and creativity in the 21st century, in order to use the institution's own words. The message is that young minds can learn to act in a dynamic world by learning to deal with ambiguity, to live in, think creatively, reflect and evaluate, identify patterns and make connections – that is, to respond to the need for future competences, as the Ludvigsen Committee has so far come up with. Australia has now established a new curriculum in which the arts have strengthened their position. All the subjects, both dance, drama, media, art, music and visual art, have been given space. The Australian authorities believe that these subjects together should provide better opportunities for learning to be creative, design, present, communicate and share fantasies and ideas, observations and experiences. I hope that these ideas will also be given a good place in the final report of the Ludvigsen Committee and in the debate afterwards. Studies show that students with the arts profession perform better than students without. So it's not silly and unnecessary to have art, design and crafts in school, it's quite the opposite. In addition to the practical skills it gives the students, it contributes to motivation, and it is our duty as politicians to look for the inner motivation of the students and how we can ensure that the students remain motivated and creative throughout the school cycle. We have to make sure that the students learn to think like an artist if we have a goal of taking the world from the black to the green shift, so that we achieve our global goals for a better future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1674	I like this debate. I like it for a very clear reason, and it's a debate that asks: why can't we make higher demands? I think that's a very good starting point. I think it's a very good starting point when the interpellant believes that we need strong professional environments, and that we should have demands for immersion for those who teach different subjects in school. When she points out that professional competence is crucial also in the practical-esthetic fields, it is a fundamental position that I also share. This does not mean that there are no teachers today who do not have depression in the practical-esthetic subjects, who do a formidable job. There are many of them. But that means that our starting point should be that we expect you to have depression in the subject you teach, and we expect the school owner to employ people who have depression in the subjects they teach. That's why I also like the direction of this interpolation. Then I want to say something about the practical-esthetic subjects. It is important – as I also said in the previous debate – that we do not go into the trap that we say that this is a subject that has a different purpose than the subjects themselves. The practical-esthetic subjects of art and crafts are not primarily breathing holes in the school. They're not for those students who don't do well in other subjects. It's not to learn more mathematics or science or Norwegian that you're going to have these subjects. They have a self-esteem. They are independent subjects in Norwegian school, they are a natural part of Norwegian school and must and must be a natural part of it. This means that these subjects also need strong professional environments, need professional skills, need high demands, high professional standards and high expectations of what students are going through, and what students are going to learn. That many students also like the subjects, of course, is no inconvenience, but it does not mean that the need to have professional content on top is gone. Then I have to say again – it’s not to make the debate less important, it’s just to stress that this is not Storting’s job alone – that according to the Education Act, it’s the school owner who is very clearly and clearly responsible for ensuring the relevant competence. Now as it is municipal elections: if you in a municipality believe that this work is not good enough, if you think that in your school the practical aesthetics, or the arts and crafts become more concrete, become down-prioritized, it is something you should confront your local politicians with. So it's true, as the interpellant says, that the SSB's survey of teaching skills in the field of art and crafts shows a negative trend from 1999 until the 2013–2014 survey. This is particularly true for the small and medium level. There is a higher proportion of teachers with depression in the profession among the elderly than among the younger age groups. The statistics show that only 24 pst. of the teachers of the small school course who are less than 30 years of age, have a professional immersion in the subject. Then the representatives themselves will figure out how much it represents, whether it is one of four or one of five – you can't discuss that. They'll figure that out on their own. 27 pst. of the teachers under 30 years of age in the middle step have a depression in the subject. It's a little disappearing. This gives cause for concern, and these numbers have to be reversed. Luckily, statistics are the opposite of youth. Here has almost four out of five under 30 years – 78 pst. – professional immersion in the subject. The government is working hard to strengthen the competence of teachers in the fields in which they teach. As I said, I fully agree with the principle starting point. The means we have to increase our skills are, as you know, teacher training and continuing training, and to make specific demands on the competence of each subject. That's what the interpellant is dealing with. I mentioned the work with the Teacher Lift earlier today. On the team of the knowledge school. We're going to make a master's degree, and then it's also natural that we get a boost for the practical-esthetic subjects. The follow-up group, which has followed the introduction of the new primary school teacher training, has raised concerns about the lack of teaching skills in the aesthetic disciplines, and there are assessments we need to have in our work. Then, as I mentioned earlier, there are further training courses in the practical-esthetic subjects. Through the government's uplift and the majority party's uplift, more than 5,000 teachers will be given study places from the fall. So it's true that we've given extra priority to mathematics and science. It's not right that a representative said that this means that these subjects are more prioritised constantly, but that means that we have to do something first, and these are the subjects we have chosen to prioritise first. When we have discussions about real science in this room, everyone agrees that it's important to get a lift. But we see that there are too few teachers who choose further training courses in the aesthetic subjects, and not least that there are too few municipalities who say yes. There is a lower percentage who agree that teachers should receive further training in practical-esthetic offers than in general. This is a problem, especially in terms of the competence situation. It is also too few teachers who choose depression in aesthetic subjects as part of their teacher training compared to the need for this competence in school. Another challenge is also reported: that teachers with art training and depression of 30 study credits or more do not compete for additions in the first to 7 stages of school. There is a clear call for the school owners to put that competence into use and to add teachers with professional immersion in aesthetic subjects. I almost said, "The same municipal politicians and the same principals who think it's a natural thing to have depression to teach mathematics or Norwegian, should think the same way about these subjects." Our most powerful instrument, perhaps, will be to make specific demands on the competence of aesthetic subjects, also to teach in the middle, possibly even the small school stage. I have said that I am initially in favour of such a proposal, because it should be such that you expect to have depression in the subjects in which you teach. At the same time, it has some practical aspects. We already see that in the process of deepening the requirements for Norwegian, math and English. Many schools are struggling to put together the teaching staff properly. Many schools, especially small schools, and perhaps especially schools in the districts, are struggling with recruitment. That's why we have to find out more. It probably won't be something coming next year, to say it like this, but it's an idea I'm initially positive to continue working with. Once again, it's not about always prioritizing any subjects, but we also have major challenges in Norwegian, math and English. There we have chosen to give priority to competence requirements first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1702	I am pleased with the involvement of the Council of State, and I'm actually a little happy that we're able to put this kind of topic under debate in the Storting, so that we get a discussion about the importance of subjects other than we do in the traditional debates, which I feel we often have, in the Stortinget. I share the Council of State's statement that we want immersion in the subjects in which we teach. I also share with the Council of State the problem of setting standards of competence, and I am pleased that the Council of State wants to get back to it, because it needs to be investigated. It's like today that we have several types of education. We're talking about teacher training as if there's one thing, and it's actually not. We have our own vocational training in many of the practical-esthetic subjects today, and then we have the elementary school teacher training, and that's the one that's been worried, because there we see a decline. The old general teacher has the practical-esthetic subjects as part of his basic training. That's why I think it's very important that we look at what's going to be the competence requirement to teach in those subjects. Is that supposed to be 15 credits? Is that supposed to be 30 credits? Is that supposed to be 60 credits? What do we want as competence requirements? I also agree with the Council when he stresses that the subject in itself has its own value. It has been my profession that we should look at the arts and crafts as being of our own value and giving the students an experience in themselves. Then it's true that the Council of State says we're not the ones to decide what to prioritize. It's going to be local politicians out there in the whole country, and we're going to try to remind them about it in the future. But that's also how we give the framework, and as the Council of State has also said, we want to give priority to the basic subjects, as they are called. Then we give a signal to the local populace and to the school owners out there that if they send teachers in Norwegian and math, we can do it, but not if they send to the practical-esthetic subjects. But I hope that several people will send for further training there before it is too late. I want to ask a few questions to the Council of State. It is about teacher training in relation to the overlap they currently have in teacher training institutions, ratios 1 to 7 and 5 to 10. Today, they're trying to make it 20 pst., but it's a challenge for the individual teacher training institution to make a good enough offer to those who want art and craft in their teaching portfolio today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1715	In the context of the conversion to five-year master’s education, a framework plan selection is set up. It is true that we have said that the institutions must be able to offer – I do not like to say the basic subjects, but they must be able to offer Norwegian, mathematics, English, or a selection of them, Sami and sign language also included. That doesn't mean it's the only subjects institutions have to offer. It's very important to underline. It is not that we should get institutions that can only offer it, precisely because we need teachers in e.g. art and crafts in the future in school, and then it is important that we have good environments of competence that offer it. The second part is that it is important that the municipalities not only demand, but that the people who have that education actually become employed. In a way, it is a failure statement against municipal self-government if, in order to get municipalities teaching art and crafts, we have to employ qualified teachers, municipalities that have students who have competence in it, we have to have a national government. I believe that this kind of requirement may be reasonable, but there is also a reason to ask the question: why do these people not become employees today? I think maybe one of the reasons might be that we're not clear enough that this is not a breathing hole. These are subjects with high professional requirements and ambitions, which are important subjects, and which are on their own. I would like to continue working on the recommendation of the possible art and the interpellant on whether we should have stricter formal requirements. I'm open to it. I can't promise how we'll conclude, but I'm open to that being an opportunity. But until that happens, it's just as simple as the municipalities have to hire people who have competence in these subjects. Then I think it's natural to ask the municipalities if they don't have the same professional ambitions when they hire a teacher in art and crafts, as they do when they hire a teacher in mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1724	Thank you to the interpellant who raises an important question for debate. In many ways, this is a concreteisation and a step further from the previous debate, where we talked about lifting the practical-esthetic subjects. Some of the main recommendations from the group of experts who were to look at the art and the cultural place in the school, and who delivered the report The art of the possible, were precisely linked to professional skills in art and crafts, that we had to take inwards the statistics that show that a high proportion of teachers who teach art and crafts do not have study scores in the subject, and what consequences it has. It's serious to in 1–4. step is over 50 pst. of the teachers who do not have any professional immersion in art and crafts, and that in 5–7. Step is almost 45 pst. who do not have study scores in art and crafts. From 8th to 10th. step is at the lower edge of 30 pst. – also it's a high number. That is not good enough, and targeted action is required. I was concerned about it in the previous debate, that we can rule if we want to, and if we believe that it is right. The Council of State says that governing this way can be a failure statement against municipal autonomy. Yes, but you do it where you think it's necessary. You do it in some subjects. And I believe that we need to facilitate and ensure that the municipalities give priority to continuing training in the practical-esthetic subjects, because those figures are so serious. Another exciting debate is how to get more people to choose practical-esthetic subjects in their teacher training. I look forward to the discussions about it when we're going to discuss the layout of a new teacher's education. The follow-up group on teacher training recommended in 2014 that more research be needed on the content and quality of the flexible programme for primary school teacher training, in particular with a view to recruiting practical-esthetic subjects. I think that's wise – getting more knowledge on the table. They had another piece of advice, and it was the practical-esthetic subjects with a few students. It considered that the Ministry had to assess national measures to ensure that future skill needs in the fields are met. I think that's also wise. The report we have talked about several times, the art of the possible, recommended that you had your own skills requirements for teachers in the practical-esthetic subjects of art and crafts. I'm glad that the Council of State is positive to a discussion around this. And the Workers' Party joins in, precisely because the teacher is the school's most important resource. We all say that all the time. Then we also have to think that it applies to everyone all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1741	As in today's previous interpellation by the representative Thinning Bjørnø, this interpellation by the representative Tingelstad Wøien focuses on the practical-esthetic subjects in the school. Wøien also focuses in particular on teacher competence in primary school and the worrying development over many years in the proportion of teachers with depression. And just as the Minister answers Mr. Tingelstad Wøien, it's a point that the practical-esthetic subjects contribute to lifting the student's professional, practical and creative abilities as a whole. There is also one point, when we are now so concerned with professional immersion and skills requirements for teachers in different disciplines, that the interpellants might also have been a little clearer about what concrete measures they want to take to achieve results improvements to some of the challenges they point to. From my point of view, I would therefore like to boast of the excellent results achieved by the government and the cooperation parties through the budgetary increases and, therefore, the commitment to Quality Competence. There is no doubt that this has led to a solid increase in approved continuing training, and this effort will over time contribute positively to the question raised in the interview. This means that competent teachers will also be given access within the practical-esthetic subjects as this initiative takes effect. Here it is also relevant to repeat the government's commitment to teacher training as an important part of making the teaching profession attractive, so that we get more people applying for these courses. There is a connection, as I mentioned earlier, between these efforts and the making of increased demands, which means that we see increased search for both teacher training and continuing training provision. Because there is little doubt that the reduction in the ownership of municipalities, the combination of increased temporary allowances, etc., has made it possible for the school owners to give priority to the practical-esthetic subjects without burdening tight municipal budgets. There is therefore no reason for municipalities to employ teachers without the required skills. In any case, it is fully possible to have further training plans to ensure the build-up of skills in the future, and thus to have a plan both for those who have been added and for those who come in as new trainees. We're going to meet a local election. In this way, this is a good thing to bring into the municipal election campaign, where politicians and school owners are allowed locally to show who prioritises teachers, who prioritises school content, and who prioritises budget resources to strengthen this sector. In the autumn, 5 600 teachers receive further training. It's a very high number, as said, it's three times as many as a few years ago. When one clearly signals that this effort will continue to be a priority, we will see further positive developments in this area in the years to come – at least if the municipalities do their job, good school owners and see the need for a high professional level early in the school run. It is therefore interesting to follow the development of professional immersion in the child’s future, especially as the requirements that the government is now putting into Norwegian, math and English can be considered in full and new professional requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1756	Thank you to the inter-pellant, who is raising a debate that seems to follow up on the previous debate. There are many dramatic figures that the representative Tingelstad Wøien refers to in his interpellation. In 2014, nearly 70 pst. by teachers under the age of 30 who teach art and crafts in the school, not a single point of study in the subject. In 2005, the figure was 50 pst., while in the late 1990s the majority of the youngest teachers who taught art and crafts had formal education in the field. 15 years later, there's a minority that has this. This is now the subject where teachers have the least formal competence. Then the question is, how do more teachers with formal skills in art and crafts get? And is there – as the situation is in School Norway today – something that should be prioritised? I have to point out again the fact that Norwegian students make it weak in the PISA measurements. Norwegian students are roughly on the OECD average in science and mathematics and score lower in mathematics now than ten years ago. These results are not proportionate to the use of resources. As the Evening Post wrote on one of its cover pages last year: After ten years and 66 pst. more expensive school and 43 measures are the PISA results still medium-sized. Then, in my view, the basic subjects have to be prioritised. If you don't master the basics, you don't get anywhere. But – as I said in my previous post – it is also important that teachers have competence in the subjects in which they teach, and that also applies in art and crafts. It is also such that the practical orientation of the subjects can provide students with better knowledge of the basic subjects. But I must stress that I very much agree with the Minister of Knowledge, who in his speech was clear that knowledge has an important self-value in itself. We must not forget that in these debates. How are we going to get the students to master the basics? It is by prioritizing and introducing measures that we know work. Teachers are the school’s most important resource, and the government therefore places great emphasis on the Teacher Lift. This quality effort at school is supported by teachers and has also received clear support from the OECD. Strengthening of teacher training, including, inter alia: requirements for immersion in the basic subjects and the introduction of master's degrees are an important step towards getting good teachers. If you google ‘lack of qualified teachers’, you will see that it is a matter that is not new — and the shortage continues to increase. Then it is important that we keep our heads cold and dry to give priority. We can't do everything at once. What needs to be put in place first is a strengthening of teacher training and of the continuing training opportunities for teachers. Here is the government's historic commitment. Never before have so many teachers had a chance to increase their skills. No matter what you think about recruiting teachers – do not or do not – I dare to repeat that it is up to the municipalities to employ teachers with the skills of the subjects in which they teach. It is also the responsibility of municipalities to ensure that teachers have relevant education in the subjects in which they teach. That's the way it is, and it's neither the Stortinget nor the government that employs -- it's actually doing the municipalities. And the Progress Party will strongly recommend the school owners to employ teachers with professional immersion in aesthetic subjects. In the teacher's vow, it is especially the real subjects that are given priority, but as the Council of State had in mind in its answer, there is also room for school owners to accept study places for teachers in other disciplines, such as aesthetic subjects. The call to give their teachers the opportunity goes on to municipalities and county councils as school owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1782	One would like to blame the school owners – and they also have a responsibility to hire – but a little of the purpose of this interpellation is precisely what was shown in the series of articles in the Official Journal of Bergen. There is a concern from the educational environments of the sea, which sees that after the introduction of the new teacher training in 2010, and as the first students assumed in 2014, it is a challenge for the practical-esthetic disciplines to get large enough environments and many enough to choose the subjects at the different stages. It's a concern that we, the Red-Green Government, too, have to take part in the responsibility for, because it was we who introduced that division. But that division is going to continue in the future. My intention is that the government should take this challenge into account in the work on the new teacher training to be introduced from 2017. One might say that it is important for the current government to give priority to what is important, but what we are at risk is that suddenly we do not have a professional environment at the different teacher training institutions when we suddenly find out that we are going to give priority to the practical-esthetic subjects. That's my concern and our concern. It is a challenge that the school owners do not employ them with professional competence in the practical-esthetic subjects. It's really not that great, because I'm going to tip off that most people are trying to get rid of them that they can, by those who have good papers in Norwegian and math, because that's the subjects that one actually gets measured on. The representative of Thorsen refers again to PISA. I understand that those who do not understand that there is no contradiction between operating with practical aesthetics, having good competence in it and at the same time being good in mathematics, and who do not understand – as I think the representative Thinning Bjørnø presented in an exemplary way – what are the objectives of competence in practical aesthetics, and what are the objectives of competence in mathematics, and who do not see the possibility of coordination and the potential one can get out of it, want to insist that PISA is the most important, that measurement is the most important, and that the basic subjects Norwegian, mathematics and English are the most important. The representative Skei Grande earlier brought out the excellent teacher she had, who was an artist. I would like to ask a small question at the end of the Council of State, because it has come to my mind that a proposal has been made for a master's degree to be required to take practical-pedagogical education, and I would like to confirm or disclaim if that is the case. I think we can have a lot of artists that we can really enjoy as teachers in school, if they take a practical-pedagogical education as well. Thank you for a good debate, by the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1797	To the question: Yes, it is true, and the reason is quite simply that if you are going to have a five-year master's education for all teachers, it will be very artificial, in my opinion, that you – when five years of master's education comes – will then have the opportunity to become a teacher with a Bachelor's degree and a PPU at the top. So then it's natural that you have the same requirement for everyone going into school, and that you don't have another way in with a lower requirement. I would also like to thank you for the debate. There's been an interesting debate with a lot of good input. It is probably no more to say than that the main question of the interpellant and the wish that this is something that needs to be further worked on, and not to be put into a drawer, that there is an idea to be considered, and that one should consider whether one needs skills requirements also in practical-esthetic subjects – art and crafts at the middle and youth stages – she has received a positive answer. That means that there will certainly be opportunities to discuss this later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1804	Then there's case no. 10 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1821	Many of us in the hall here probably have a heart for the university museums. There has been a great debate over a long time about the role and position of university museums, and there were some who wanted to move them away from universities and make them just museums. I think it's important that our university museums are part of the museum structure, but also of our universities. It's important that they're connected to them. It makes the universities better, it makes the museums better, and it also makes the other museums better. But they've been treated badly. They have been poorly treated by universities, where this is activity that is not management's main focus, neither through the way we fund and strengthen our universities, nor how it has been prioritised internally at individual universities. The collections have also not been valued. I notice that having collections doesn't have the status that it should have – whether it's language banks, dictionaries or it's actual physical collections at universities – and that the state has had a museum policy where the university museums haven't had an important role. I believe that the university museums play a very important role in a number of areas, such as: in the real trades that have been going on for so many years. It has been important to show how real science can be disseminated in completely different ways to children and young people, and there the university museums have been at the forefront. They are in the forefront of developing professional activities for young people and have managed to develop many new activities in these fields. I can mention the role as e.g. Botanical garden in Oslo has, both as a retreat and as an important arena for knowledge dissemination, and as a place where we live in the Old Town in Oslo, are very proud to have come close to us, or the Summer School at the Science Museum in Trondheim, where kids can play scientists and researchers and help develop knowledge together with top researchers, or Bergen, which is a city that has been very committed to getting the collections up and showing what is both Bergen's history and research history in the area. It's especially going around and looking at the polar collections from Nansen and Amundsen down in the cellars of Tøen. These collections, which have been collected a long time ago, may seem insignificant, but now we see that much of what is in the physical collections today can give us new knowledge. They collected material from Novaja Semlya before the Russians began their testing. Now you can compare findings in the same areas with the collections that were done over 100 years ago, and you can see how the tests have affected the nature and other structures of the area. So physical collections can mean a lot to us in areas we don't think we needed knowledge about. This has been important for a lot of research environments, such as the research environments we are proud of, which are looking for lizards at Svalbard in the summer, but which are important dinosaur intermediaries for very many children, fascinated by these animals. I mean, researchers are supposed to be children's heroes. Often these heroes are created through our university museums. The major profiles of many areas of research that we have in the public debate are intermediaries at the university museums. I think it's important that we develop these museums together with their city. For us who are engaged in the inner Oslo East and the Old Town and Tøen, it is quite clear that it is important that the university museums are part of the Tøen-lift that many of us have been busy getting in place. The second major challenge is that many of them live in peaceful buildings. The National Audit Office has said that these museums are in incredibly bad condition. This has been dealt with a number of times in Stortinget. I have been on it many times, without feeling that it has worked. In the option of St. Report. No 15 for 2007-2008, Tingene’s speech, an overall committee wrote: ‘The Committee will further stress that the building and magazine conditions at the museums are most critical in the current situation of the university museums. Both the Riksaudition Review in Document No. 3:9 and the investigation of the Rogan Committee in NOU 2006:8 emphasise the need for an upgrade of the building mass. [[2002-2003]] The Committee takes note of the Ministry's review of the building situation at the university museums and will conclude that appropriate construction is a key prerequisite for research, teaching and dissemination at the museums.» And then we're back to the big challenge: we need to have incentives in the way we finance our universities, which make sure that there are also incentives to run the museum in a good way and to communicate, which I think is an important part of any university and any collection manager. But in a lot of the university sector, I feel that that part of the university's operations has not been adequately valued in the structures we've had. We in the Left are delighted that we now have a gift-enhancing arrangement for museums. It was originally our idea. But these museums, like university museums, don't have the ability to use these gift enhancement schemes. This means that they also do not have access to the possibilities offered by these increases. The VAT system and other tax systems also make them fall between all the three chairs they could have been sitting on safely — whether there are intensive schemes, whether it is gift-enhancing, or whether it is VAT. In 2008, we discussed the Tingene speech. This has happened very little afterwards. My question to the Council of State is that there is no sense in us making big messages if we are not going to follow them up – sail if it was far from this Council of State that did not follow up. But I wonder what the state councils think about the future position of the university museums – how to secure funding for them, how to restore the status of Norwegian universities’ collections, what role the state council sees our university museums as going forward, and how to develop them in the context of both the cities they are in, and the community there, and the role we see for researchers and intermediaries to have in relation to children and young people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1850	The university museums of our five universities in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø and Stavanger have a broad social mission: those employed there are supposed to be heroes for children. They must present Norwegian cultural heritage and natural heritage to tourists, and they must pass it on to children and young people. They shall have a diversity of exhibitions and a diversity of forms of dissemination. Then there's something that separates the university museums from other museums, which the interpellant also had in mind, that the university museums are scientific institutions. Research underpins the systematic development of scientific collections, the role of museums as knowledge producers in cultural memory and nature management and for the general dissemination. The collections are a result of organized knowledge building over a long period of time and are mainly the oldest and often the only documentation we have in a number of natural and cultural historical areas. It makes these museums completely unique. As the interpellant had in mind, the funding of the university museums lies within the framework funding of universities. It is the basic component which represents the main financing of university tasks, including: University Museums. Of course, there is also one reason why there is different funding and different basis for different institutions. As we wrote in Meld. St. 18 for 2014–2015, currently under consideration in Stortinget, Concentration for Quality, the Ministry of Knowledge will not propose significant changes to the basic component. It is, in fact, a rather important discussion also for the university museums, because if one is to stick to the overall principle of governance of the higher education sector in Norway: that of course they have some demands, that it is something they must deliver, but that institutions have largely internal freedom and internal autonomy, including in the field of economics, is the very discussion of the overall funding system and the basic part quite crucial also for the university museums. Since its inception, the financial system has been a system for allocating resources between institutions and not within individual institutions. We haven't had a system that's kind of a payment system, where we almost finance the many tasks that universities and colleges are responsible for. It is up to the Governing Boards to adopt internal budgets to carry out the tasks entrusted to institutions by law, including the university museums, and to follow up their own strategies and efforts. And then it's our job as a department to be clear that it's a responsibility the institutions have, both to the boards and in all other stages of the governance dialogue. The university museums conduct research in the same way as the faculties, which generates both publication scores and results-based funding for the institutions. But the museums differ from the universities' other activities by having very little teaching. In return, they have all the more communication and collection management. These tasks must then mainly be financed from the basic allocation of universities. In addition, the university museums have extensive administrative tasks under the Cultural Memory Act. As the representative Skei Grande is familiar with, the Ministry of Climate and Environment manages the Cultural Memory Act, administrative excavation expenditure, as well as parts of pre- and post-work are covered by builders, but administrative tasks also generate expenses that the museums do not receive. I am therefore in dialogue with my colleague in KLD to assess how we can solve that challenge. The Committee of Experts, which proposed a new funding system for universities and higher education institutions, had as a central point in its mandate that the funding system should strengthen the productivity and quality of institutions and, at the same time, provide them with strategic space for action. This strategic space of action is, to put it very simply, all that an institution uses to create a profile, build quality and disseminate — all the tasks that an institution has. There was broad support afterwards to continue the main elements of the funding system, while there is a discussion about the very basic component, as I mentioned earlier. However, the hearing bodies said that a simple and transparent system of few indicators is important. Then the representative, Skei Grande, points out that in previous political documents, there has been a system in which one could both reward, or reward, communication and management of the objects. Several attempts have been made to develop such indicators. What has been difficult — yes, really impossible — is to create a measurement system that can reconcile all the different activities that are subject to dissemination, while at the same time being fairly fair. Therefore, the Ministry of Knowledge did not consider it appropriate to develop financial incentives for intermediary activities at the university museums, as reported by St. Meld. No 15 for 2007-2008, Tingene speech, announced in 2008. The Expert Group on Financing has also not recommended the introduction of indicators for dissemination. Again, the overall assessment is that for the whole sector it will not be possible to capture the complexity of indicators that are appropriate in a formalised funding system. And I could say, without pre-empting the changes that we're going to propose in the state budget, that I agree with that assessment: that we can't have a system that captures all aspects of the business. Then comes the issue raised by the representative Skei Grande: how are we going to take care of the university museums? There is, of course, an extra big problem, because the large increase in resources in the higher education sector has been primarily linked to the growth of students. The museums don't have their own students. That's why we have to expect institutions, i.e. universities, to also use other student numbers when they're going to distribute resources further internally. And even though the university museums may not think they have a satisfactory situation today, we know that the institutions that have museums are very concerned about them. The Ministry followed up actions in Tingene’s speech in setting up a strategic research effort for the museums through the Research Council. That effort has triggered a lot of cooperation and activity, and the project period expired in 2014. We chose to continue the funds to the two research schools in biosystematics and archaeology, which were established through the initiative. The Ministry has also granted additional resources for the preservation and preservation of museums for a number of years to remedy the situation of scientific collections. Universities have also prioritised their own funds for securing and preserving museums' collections, for example: by renting external premises for scientific collections. All university museums face challenges with old and inappropriate buildings, and all have construction projects under planning in State Building. As regards the construction situation, I refer you to the answer I gave to the representative Skei Grande to her question for a written answer in January this year. The Ministry has also followed up actions on its own governance meetings between the Department, the University Management and the Museums, and in these meetings we discuss how the universities take care of the museums in their overall activities, including: the place they have in strategy and governance. The management meetings were held each year for the first three years after the notification was made, and during that three-year period the ministry recorded that the museums were integrated into university strategies and plans to a much greater extent than before. We have notified the universities that there will be a new round of management meetings about and with the university museums for the autumn. The funding of the museums will also be discussed with the senior management. The university museums manage a tax on behalf of the community. They must have good conditions to continue to manage that knowledge of our common natural and cultural heritage and to carry out high-quality research and dissemination. I will continue to do this through the Ministry's management of universities and museums and by giving universities room for action to carry out the significant societal mission they have been given. The university museums have been, are and remain a central part of this societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1885	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I don't think it was any good. It was a seven-minute delay -- a discussion task -- about different things that you don't want to do. For and against – he chooses not to do so. So it was two minutes to say it was hard to control the universities, and one minute to say that the university museum is fine. That was the disposition of the ten minutes. I have to say, I'm a little disappointed. Obviously, the Council of State will not look at the funding system related to dissemination, but we are in a situation where the way we manage the university museums today does not work. Then it doesn't seem to me that you talk to the university principal once a year about it, and then you might call the Environment Minister and ask how to do it with the houses. We need more power if we're really going to be able to lift this sector, because the situation out there is now that the museums are shut down in the house by house. On the Tøjen it is now closed for the whole summer. There aren't dinosaurs for the kids, there's no way to get into more of the museums, because you've been ignoring them for as long as you've done. I'm going to give the Council a chance to: is there something he wants to do other than call the principal and tell them to talk about it, and call the Minister for the Environment and tell him to talk about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1894	It is a common complaint from many students who get poor grades on exams, that the task was poorly formulated. I don't know if I'm going to try it out, because I really think the interview from the representative Skei Grande is quite clear on what she's asking for. What she's asking for is: should the funding system contain concrete components that benefit the university museums? My answer to that is that I am not for such a system. Then she draws up a number of other issues that are about how we're going to be able to strengthen the university museums. I must probably allow myself to answer so boringly: there is something we have to do and will do. As I said, we give extra funds and extra appropriations to take care of the museum collections. I also know that it is e.g. is a major need for digitisation. It is a political priority that we must find room for in the budgets that come. Construction is also crucial. We have a great need for construction in the UH sector. Once again, there's something we need to find room for in the budgets. As far as the core of the issue is concerned, I am somewhat uncertain about where the representative Skei Grande will go, because on the one hand, the left is the party that perhaps speaks loudly, clearly and clearly about the autonomy of the institutions, that universities should be autonomous, and that also means that they must be able to do their own priorities. So that doesn't mean that they can prioritize the university museums away, because that's part of their community mission. They're going to run university museums. This means, at least, that it is difficult to imagine a system in which, while respecting the autonomy of universities, a funding system is created that binds the economic autonomy of universities. If that's the way the representative Skei Grande wants to go, I'm sure I'm skeptical about it. I believe that our main task is to ensure that the universities take on that task, the social mission that they have. We do that through the governance dialogue, and the governance dialogue with the Ministry of Knowledge is nothing to be missed. It's not like I'm calling the principals. It's way tougher than that. So it's construction and ensuring our national responsibility for the collections. In addition to that, I do not believe that we should have a financing scheme that imposes more detailed requirements than today. I think it's practically hard to get to. I believe it will break the autonomy of the institutions. On the other hand, I think it's a pretty important point that we can risk going in the opposite direction. If we weaken the autonomy and economic capacity of the mother institutions of the major university museums, it will make the conditions of the university museums more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1907	I would like to thank the interpellant who is addressing this – especially right now, I would say, because now we have a case in the Stortinget that is about the funding of the university and higher education sector, and that makes it quite appropriate. Now it's probably more than me who's going to come with personal anecdotes about museums, but I first realized that the universities had many museums when I discovered that Baronian Rosendal is actually owned by the University of Oslo. It came as a surprise to me, but that's the way it is. There are many museums, e.g. Viking ships, for which universities are responsible, and that is an important responsibility. This is, of course, about the dissemination role of universities — and the precious part of it — for all institutions has an important role to play in communicating, even though what is very often seen in research debates and research and education debates are world-leading research and publication scores. But it is very important that our researchers contribute to society and disseminate research. It can be done easily by publishing online, which costs very little, or it can be done in a much more complicated way, of course – caring for all these collections, all these buildings that are around, and that require a lot of maintenance and work. I think everyone agrees that universities should have funding in place to carry out this role in a good way. I have never felt that there is any disagreement about it, or that someone will weaken it, nor the other institutions in the sector. What it's about is how we're going to design the entire funding system, which I'm experiencing maybe came up most at the end of the contributions to both the inter-pellant and the state councils. We in the Workers' Party have criticised the government – and will probably also do so in the setting – so that that funding model is not in place when we are dealing with the staging message on structure. There's not much about the museum there either. That should definitely be the case. I fear that this will drown in the budget procedure for the autumn. The representative of Trine Skei Grande has a significant point when she says she lacks the dissemination role in the funding system. At the same time, I also have a sense of the points made by the Council of State that we cannot have too many indicators, because then one thing hits the other. Still, the challenges here are so big that it's in place that the Storting gets more involved. I understand that the Council of State has dialogue meetings with the universities about this, and that it can go hard on it there. It is well possible; I have not been present. But I would say that what is essential is that the Storting, the National Assembly, is given the opportunity to discuss it in large-scale documents, and that we are given time to do so. Because it's so important to us as a nation, and also to the universities, who are happy to have this task, but who are struggling with it. Not least they have many old buildings that require a lot of money to maintain. That's not what they get on our shoulders for. When we talk about how good researchers we have, there are Nobel Prizes that are mentioned, there are publications, and it's world-leading, one with the other, or there's the number of students coming out -- that's the counting edge that cancels out. Then it is less important that they have a role in the Botanical Garden in caring for old plants, or the Norwegian language and some such elements. I'm afraid we're getting a system that takes the most care of the competitive element, triggers that we're going to be world leaders on all the bows and edges, and that the dissemination role doesn't get a place in this funding system – nor the tasks associated with collecting and building and museums – yes, I'm sure there'll be room for Trine Skei Grande, if she's still on the Storting in the years to come, or for us others, to take this up again because we haven't solved the challenge. The museums come into a role where they are easily squandered in other tasks, and it could probably be that we should do something about the funding mechanism anyway, even if there are arguments against it. I am at least of the opinion that this should be discussed in large-scale documents, and I expect the government to give us an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1922	The interpellant addresses a central challenge at the five universities in the country that today have a national responsibility for the university museums. These museums are in a special position among our museums precisely because they are scientific institutions. The universities of Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen, Tromsø and Stavanger, respectively, therefore have a special responsibility to manage knowledge of our natural and cultural heritage and to contribute to this through exhibitions for the nation's population, new generations and also tourists. So the question is, how are we going to ensure that the universities that have this special responsibility get good framework conditions to be able to do this in a good way? That's not a simple question. The Funding Committee, which has gone through the funding system for the university and higher education structures, has recommended maintaining large parts of the basic components of the framework funding which constitute the main funding for the university's tasks. It has proved to be quite difficult to find good indicators for just dissemination, which will take the intermediary activities of the university museums in a good way. As many have said, we are in the midst of a debate now on changes in university and higher education structures. This debate also includes how the funding system should contribute to the strategic capacity of the different institutions to strengthen quality and develop their own strategies for carrying out different tasks. We have not finished that debate. How we're going to secure the museums at the universities, we're still not fully committed to it. In recent years, the situation of the university museums has improved somewhat by providing additional resources for the preservation and preservation of museums, while at the same time giving universities priority to their own funding for the preservation of their collections. It is good that the department, the university management and the museums have a good dialogue on how universities can take care of the museum activities in the future. However, I think it is important that we here at Stortinget can follow the development of the university museums. The university museums are in a special position in the sense that, in addition to the dissemination of natural and cultural heritage, they also have administrative tasks under the Cultural Memory Act. It is therefore important that our own climate and environment minister also engage in the role of university museums as cultural memory administrators. At the same time, we know that all university museums have challenges, including: with old and often inappropriate barley. I think this debate illustrates that we still have a job to do in caring for our common natural and cultural heritage at the university museums. We must aim to enable the universities themselves to carry out this task in a good way. However, I would like to add that I am optimistic on behalf of the university museums, in the sense that knowledge, higher education, research and dissemination are a high priority of the government. In the two budgets we have dealt with here in the Grand Duchy since the accession of the Right-Fremskrit Party government, the appropriations for higher education and research have been given a strong boost. Much is happening in the sector, both through structural intervention and positive signals in the long-term communication for higher education and research, with quality at the centre. In this work, we need to ensure that universities get the space they need to carry out the social mission they have for university museums. I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue affecting our scientific institutions and one of the challenges arising from the responsibility of the university museums. This is about taking care of our common natural and cultural heritage, and it is about seeing the scientific link between the past and the future. As we know, our history is also an important part of our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1943	The representative Skei Grande's questions about how to provide adequate and predictable funding for the university environment are important. The University Museums play a central role in the dissemination of both natural and cultural history and manage collections with over 10 million objects. The museums face many challenges and expectations from society, research environments and academia, while for many years they have had unclear and unpredictable funding mechanisms. Dissemination of knowledge has always been a central basis for the identification of museums. Ever since they started, they've been seen as institutions of formation, and they're still being mentioned as such. But the museums have several important roles in today's society. They act as dialogue institutions and focus on asking questions and inviting reflection rather than giving all the answers themselves. They are meeting places between past and present, between people from different groups and between different experiences and ideas. And not least, the museums act as identity creators. For the cultural-historical museums, their role as creators and keepers of identity has been very central. I will take the call from the representative of Aasen seriously and make a personal anecdote: as a symbol of all the different and seemingly narrow activities taking place at the university museums, the Scientific Museum in Trondheim in April had a Sunday called "Hoggormsøndag". I thought this sounded pretty cool, so I went down in the belief that I was the only one who thought this was cool. It turned out that I was not, but luckily I got the third extra show! The need to find footholds, heritage, tradition and roots has been underlined in various communications and public investigations. As society evolves, museums also need to develop and demonstrate the diversity of identities and traditions that exist in Norway. These are challenging and exciting tasks that require a high level of competence and predictable funding. Wide universities in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø as well as the University of Stavanger operate university museums in their portfolio with large scientific collections and broad public contact. The financing model of the quality reform has little effect on museum operations, and many have pointed out that the museums are losing ground in the struggle for funding from the Ministry of Knowledge's basic funding. This is a situation that has persisted for many years, and the interpellant is quite right that when the funding system was presented in 2002, the Ministry announced that there would be a separate museum component in the incentive scheme, which did not happen. Introducing incentives both for the collection management and for the dissemination was repeated in the 2008 Annual Report on University Museums, Tingene’s speech. Arne Bjørlycke, Director of the NHM, Håkon Glørstad, Director of the Cultural History Museum, and Ole Petter Ottersen, Vice-Chancellor of the UiO, have pointed out that the university museums experience lack of incentives, lack of gifts, lack of opportunities for VAT exemptions, and that they have old and peaceful museum premises that fall due. These individuals believe that this shows that Norway does not have the power to adequately address the precarious situation of financing university museums, and that they thus still have to live with fewer opportunities than the rest of the sector to be rewarded for their efforts. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring that the entire knowledge sector has good, effective and predictable framework conditions. A funding mechanism adapted to the museum’s situation and challenges is a key element in this. Here, in consultation with the museum sector, it should be possible to find good solutions, and we hope that the government will return to it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1962	I would like to thank all those who have been involved in the debate, and I am pleased that all the major parties took part. I'm a little sorry that those who ran this field for eight years didn't think it was important to be in, but we're hoping we'll get back to it. When we measure, we often stretch toward what we measure against. There's a little bit of thinking behind a lot of school, and what we're measuring, we're giving power. The Council of State strongly refuses to do anything with the funding system to measure what is being done in this area. I also agree that universities should have their own autonomy. But when something's raging together, like these museums are doing physically, we politicians have to do something, and what I'm afraid of, is we end up in a situation where these museums have to be disconnected from universities. Then we've lost a lot both at the universities and at the museums. The other thing that worries me is the status of the collection. The Minister of Culture has now been exemplary in pressing the university for the collection of languages. But the status that has disappeared related to collecting management, the pride that many universities have had in collecting management – whether it was words, or it was dictionaries, or whatever it was, it was always a status related to that administration – I feel like I'm gone in the academy. I think that's scary. My main input to the Council of State can go precisely in the two areas of gift-enhancing funds and VAT, which two of the areas in which something had at least been done structurally. Otherwise, I realize that the job of lifting these must be done by the Left in the state budgets. My last story is from Jørn Hurum, who is, to put it simply, a dinosaur researcher at the university. He says that in meetings between top-level researchers and five-year-olds you can gain new knowledge. He had met a five-year-old once who had taught him how he could find out if a dinosaur was meat eater or planter when he stood with a plastic figure in his hand. The answer was that herbivores had closed their mouths, and carnivores had open mouths. Jørn Hurum could confirm that this he had tried to check with reality, and it turned out that the five-year-old had made a correct observation. So in a meeting between researchers and children you might find new knowledge, which I've at least used a lot in retrospect in the buying of dinosaurs, because it's the carnivorous ones that are the cool ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1975	I think I'm going to end a little bit more optimistic than the representative Skei Grande might have left the groundwork for. The representative says that I'm saying 'directly no', but that's the way I've spent a lot of time talking about in this room in terms of budgets and other matters, that the political situation is now such that there is a majority on the Stortinget. I often refer to the majority parties. That means that this is not something we're going to put forward, but we have the intention of agreeing with the Left and Christian People's Party on important changes, not least in knowledge and research policy. I believe that making a separate component is both difficult and not advisable, but ‘directly no’ – it is possible that the four majority parties can also find some good solutions here. Then for gift-enhancing. I think that's worth looking at. The gift enhancement system is good. It's good both the one that exists in the field of culture and the one that we have today, but there are some issues about it. The fact that the university museums are not included – without me being able to say exactly why they are not – is worth looking at. VAT – I see that the Minister of Finance is not in the Chamber, so I can say that it is also a problem that is worth looking at. With regard to the assembly management and the performance related to it, probably the representative Skei Grande has a point. I must say that there is the Minister of Culture and signed a little different roles, for example. In the discussion about the language collections, I was concerned not to interfere too much with the institutions' own priorities. I must remind you that one of the things that come with great autonomy is also a great responsibility. In Norway, we have a disease that says that we should put politicians in charge of everything. There is no attempt to disclaim my responsibility. I have a responsibility as a minister of knowledge, but autonomous institutions also have a responsibility for how they manage their own resources. So it's good to bring up a debate in this room. It is good that the Minister of Knowledge should be held accountable, but autonomous institutions also have a separate responsibility for their priorities. With regard to the economic promises, there is a greater opportunity for the university museums to take care of the collections they have. There are ambitions that I share most. So it's like there, as in all other such pecuniary questions, you have to get back to it in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e1987	The President will remind the Council of State that everything said in this Chamber will be in Storting magazine forever and ever, so you can never be sure what the Minister of Finance is discovering. The debate on substance is closed. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2003	This matter is a direct follow-up to decisions taken in the budget, which were also thoroughly debated when the budget was discussed in this Chamber before Christmas. As the setting shows, we received a lot of recordings about Copernicus in the budget. This is a result of the good budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, so I want to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for a good, constructive cooperation in this area as well. Participation in Copernicus allows Norway to meet in the governance and advisory body of the Programme. It allows to influence the design of the programme in such a way that, to a greater extent than would otherwise have been the case, it covers in particular Norwegian user needs. In the initial phase of operation of the programme, Norway has achieved better coverage in the Norwegian north than originally planned, and I think that is very good. As is also evident in the proposition, until the end of 2013, Norwegian suppliers have won contracts for around 56,6 million. EUR for the development of the programme. Finally, this is a more or less unanimous setting. The working party and the centre party have a small comment about the concern that this was not originally within the government. It was probably more than the Workers' Party and the Center Party that shared that concern, but the Stortinget has worked very well in this way, and they have agreed on Copernicus. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2012	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the examination of the matter. In the budget negotiations last autumn, the Left was clear that we would give further priority to Norwegian participation in Copernicus. I am therefore particularly pleased that we came ashore with an agreement. As stated in the nomination of the Industry Committee, Norway has major user interests related to the Copernicus programme. It applies to marine surveillance, climate and environmental monitoring, fishery surveillance and surveillance of breeds and paces. So we are talking about significant interests in industry, climate, security and preparedness. Our large land and sea areas, especially those with industrial interests related to natural resource use and maritime transport, make Norway a country with particular benefit from such monitoring, especially in the north. Participation in Copernicus allows Norway to meet in the governance and advisory body of the Programme. This provides an opportunity to influence the design of the programme, and Norway has, through participation directly in the governance and advisory bodies, influenced the design of the programme, so that Norwegian needs and user interests, not least in the north, are given a higher priority. When Norwegian participation is a prerequisite for Norwegian companies and research institutions to be able to compete for contracts for the development of Copernicus operations, and when Norwegian suppliers have won contracts far in excess of the Norwegian programme contribution, as the case-rapporteur was concerned, then there is good reason to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2037	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes to each party group and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2046	The matter concerns the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of a Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The purpose of the Directive is, inter alia, to: improving conditions for laboratory animals and contributing to the strengthening of research. There is an overall committee that supports the Directive and that the introduction of the Directive implies the need to make changes to the current system. A majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Centre Party, supports the model described in the Proposition on the manner in which the Directive is to be introduced into Norwegian law. The majority want a model where the approval tasks are added to the Food Authority. That is the Committee's position. The centre party has a dissenting view and has proposed that the government return to the Stortinget with a case on how the management of laboratory animals should be organised and, in particular, financed. I'd like to take up with it the proposal of the Center Party. As we present this proposal, it is because we believe that the government's management model is not good for the laboratory animals, is not good for the research and is heavily underfunded. We have received enquiries and protests from NOAH – for animal rights, from Nofima, from Oslo University Hospital and from several of our major universities. These are representatives both of the animal protection interests and of the users of experimental animals. I am surprised that the majority of the committee does not allow itself to be moved by the recordings that have come from there, but instead chooses a model that the Food Authority has proposed, where the Food Authority will have this responsibility. And why is the government not willing to add more resources to the Food Authority to carry out these new tasks? Three annual work of the Food Safety Authority will therefore replace the Experimental Animal Committee with eight members, two secretarial members and 65 local officials. When you also know that the local people are responsible for 75 pst. I have little faith that the government's funding will hold – it will affect both the laboratory animals and research. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State says that it can wait and that it will be a less efficient system than today. But what is the essence of our opposition to this proposal is that the use of experimental animals is about making a broad, ethical assessment where the consideration of the animals on the one hand is balanced against the benefits of the animal tests. We believe that it is better suited to be dealt with in a broad range of veterinary and animal protection interests that can discuss good solutions than to be solved by a few bureaucrats in the Food Authority. And that's what this is all about, how to make this assessment. Norway has chosen a completely different model from the one it has in our neighbouring countries, and there should be no reason for this, because our neighbouring countries have just seen that these are ethical assessments — and ethical assessments do the best to interact with different interests rather than behind a desk. The directive is good – it is important to say – and there was a need to make changes, including: as a result of stability regulations, but that is the way in which one has chosen to do it, which is critical, and in particular that parties here in the hall who often like to appear as the best friends of the animals do not. I quote a recording that includes: Public health oversight and a number of universities sent to the hearing: ‘As we read it, the model of food supervision appears to be primarily justified in the economics and efficiency of management, and not in the intention of the revised Directive: improved animal welfare, better research conditions, more harmonisation between European countries and greater transparency about the use of animals in research.’ I agree with those recordings and hope that several parties will support the proposal of the Central Party in this matter, for the model the government has chosen does not serve the animal's interests, and it is very important that we have confidence and openness in the use of laboratory animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2070	The representative Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2073	On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to signal support for the government's proposal, and perhaps express some caution in claiming that if you disagree with the majority's position, you are not the best friend of the animals or do not want the best of the animals. That is what we absolutely want from the Labour Party. We believe that this is a directive that is particularly important for its implementation in Norwegian law, and that it will significantly strengthen the situation of the test animals and the ethical dilemmas facing them. That is why we welcome this directive and believe that it is possible here to make it an even more important tool for such an important area in the extension of the restructuring of the Food Safety Authority. We therefore agree with the outline and the model set out here in relation to the requirements to be imposed on businesses, how these should be approved and, in particular, what kind of supervisory structure and supervisory powers can be derived from this. I repeat: I think much of this structure is very well associated with the structural grips that have been done in the Food Authority. But I have to say to the representative Pollestad that I would probably be concerned if the number of people who are allegedly working on this today were to be the answer to doing an effective supervisory and control activity. I'm not sure that's right, and I'm not sure if that's right what's being described about what's going to happen in the future. At least then there is a need to do some action against how this work is to be done. It's referred to from the minority, it was done from the pulpit now too, namely referred to, among other things. research environments and others; it is claimed that taking action that has an economic impact and also an efficiency effect is almost the opposite of doing better for experimental animals. When you streamline and also get the economy out of it, it doesn't always mean that we're getting a lower supervisory system and a lower business approval. According to my concepts, on the contrary, much of these measures will help to strengthen the way out of such a restructuring. I believe – and also the Workers' Party – that in terms of this type of work, it is very important to have strong professional competence and to establish professional environments of competence that work well, and not necessarily that you have many of those environments, but that you have powerful environments that know how to put your foot down where you need it. In addition, there is also a need in this type of case and in many cases to have a sufficient distance so that sober and neutral assessments can be made in relation to the difficult issues that have to arise. I also believe that much of the restructuring that lies in this and the consequences of this directive will help to ensure greater non-discrimination, which was also a horizontal theme when we restructured the Food Safety Agency some time ago. Then I also believe that it is quite natural in such a case to say that this is a change in the way you work that you must always assess according to the current budgetary situation. It's natural. The Labour Party is concerned that, for the future – and especially when you put this in place in budgetary terms, whether it is the budget for 2016, which I hope it will be, or in future budgets – you will be accommodating and ensuring that there is sufficient resources to do this work. The Labour Party will be involved in this in budgetary terms. I really expect the government in the 2016 budget proposal to come back to the question of how much you are willing to do and think you have to put into it, so that you get a discussion about how extensive the systems around this will actually be. But it's a structuring and a reinforcement that's in this – and we're in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2088	A unanimous Advisory Committee agrees that EU Directive 2010/63 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is incorporated into the EEA Agreement and applied in Norway. The main objective of the Directive is to ensure the well-being and improved conditions of experimental animals. In addition, it shall contribute to improving the quality of research, ensuring high standards for animal and human health and protecting the environment. The scope has been extended compared to the old Directive and includes animals which are bred and kept for the purpose of using their organs or tissues for scientific purposes and animals used for higher education and research. The main amendments to the Directive include the requirement that ethical assessments will be mandatory before the authorisation of projects involving the use of animals. There will be requirements for the procedures, the animals to be used and the personnel, competence and organisation requirements. The new Directive strengthens the ethical requirements for the conditions of experimental animals and the principles that the use of laboratory animals should be replaced as far as possible by other methods. Administrative stability requirements are reinforced, as are the requirements for the competence of the operators. The system whereby the company’s own persons in charge approve the trials now lapses. The experimental animal area requires specific professional competence in the administration, and we clearly believe that the Food Authority can carry out this task. In addition, it is proposed that a national expert committee be set up to be consulted by the Food Safety Authority if necessary. The budget for 2015 has been strengthened by the Food Authority, corresponding to its own estimates of costs in this area. The majority of the Committee considers that the proposed organisational solution of the government is the one that best meets the requirement of independence in the supervisory role, the need for professional environment and procedural treatment, and the requirement of administrative non-discrimination for all operators engaged in animal testing activities, irrespective of their location in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2101	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for pointing out in a good way the disagreement between the Centre Party and the rest of the Committee. On the other hand, the Progress Party knows incredibly well what it is like to stand alone in matters. We have great respect for the fact that others think otherwise, and one should not be afraid to stand alone. Having said that, I believe that this matter of the new EU directive has a purpose and that it is a good decision we are making today. This will be beneficial for experimental animals. We get a system based on new, good and modern knowledge, and we're leaving a system based on old knowledge. By transferring this to the Food Authority, we have the opportunity to build a very good and competent professional environment, which we have not had the opportunity to do in the past. And I think it's a little strange when we hear that the Food Agency is made up of bureaucrats who are going to sit and decide this. With respect to reporting: the Food Authority has many incredibly skilled professionals, including veterinarians. As the representative of Storberget also pointed out, this must be seen in the context of the restructuring we are doing in the Food Safety Authority, and I believe that when we get this going, it will be a great benefit to the Experimental Animal System. I also see the possibilities we now have to avoid the professional communities themselves being involved in making decisions as to which trials should be accepted or not. This has to do with stability, and it's also important to find out about this case. It was also mentioned here that there were many who opposed the scheme, including. animal protection organisations. I myself have been in contact with animal protection organisations, including The animal protection alliance, which applauds this new scheme. They're actually saying that this is a seven-mile step in the right direction. I have great respect for that, because it's an organization that takes the job they're doing, seriously, and I listen carefully to what they're saying. What they also say is that they have been waiting for this scheme for years, and that animal protection organisations around Europe applaud Norway now coming after the rest of Europe. So here we're doing something good, not for the Food Agency, not for the animal protection organizations, not for bureaucrats or others; we're doing something good for the animals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2114	The left is concerned that a new Directive should contribute to improving animal welfare for experimental animals. I believe that this directive will help that very thing. I am also pleased that the scope has been extended compared to the old Directive – that the Directive also covers animals that are bred and kept for the purpose of using their organs or tissues for scientific purposes. It's also positive. Not enough: the left is satisfied with the requirements of the Directive on better protection of animals used for experimental purposes and with the requirements of the Directive on establishments and the supervisory authority. As the rapporteur points out, there has been some disagreement in the committee on the Storting should be ready to take a decision now, or whether the Storting should ask the Government to come back with proposals for funding and organisation of the supervisory model using animals for scientific purposes, as proposed by Geir Pollestad and the Senterpartiet. I put a significant emphasis on what the Food Safety Authority says in this case. The Authority has assessed the Directive and has recommended that it can be implemented in Norway. It's also my view, as it's a clear majority in the committee. Here we are doing intensifications, and I can't take over the criticism from the Center Party to all of us in the Committee, who don't think like them in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2125	SV is not in the committee, and therefore our view does not appear there. But after listening to the debate, I must stress that I have not heard anyone who does not want the directive to be approved. Everyone means that. That's good. It will strengthen the protection of animals because the prerequisites and requirements of the Directive are to establish a system that respects both professionalism and stability and strengthens ethical assessments against industrial and research assessments. The discussion is about the system in place to implement this is the best and most appropriate. There, SV shares the view of the centre party, so the centre party is not alone in this matter. We believe that it would have been better if the matter had been sent back to come back with a broader investigation on the organisation. There's several reasons for that. There have been many strong and heavy professional assessments of this. It is from environments that have to be assumed to have a high level of competence in this area. I can refer some of that. One is that the proposed proposal proposes to wind up the laboratory and local administration and replace it with a system of internal case handlers in the Food Safety Authority. The Food Safety Authority shall also act as the appeal body for decisions taken by its own case handlers. It's not a system that we believe is definitely good enough. It's important to have anchor bodies that are independent, as they have in our neighboring country, where they have a different organization of this. So they have implemented this directive differently from what Norway has done. They have also retained the national committees to carry out ethical assessments and act as a fixed sample, rather than as a single expert to be contacted in specific cases and to seek advice. This discussion is not about confidence in the competence of the Food Authority. Of course it does. But does it have sufficient competence? Are those with whom the Food Authority is to advise when making such decisions, sufficiently independent, and possess sufficient competence? Are the fixed structures that allow them to function over time? Unfortunately, this is not the case with the system that is now proposed. In addition, questions have been raised by some organisations about how they can carry out their societal task with influence during the proceedings, as they can today when matters are up. So to the question of the economy. SV has nothing against organizing things effectively so that you can save resources. However, in this case it is difficult to see that the increased requirement for ethical and professional treatment of these matters which the Directive requires has been taken into account. Has a system been rigged to meet these new commitments that Norway is now taking on – and which SV very much agrees that we should take on? Have you rigged it in such a way and in such a volume that you can be sure that you achieve what everyone now says you should do, namely better ethical and professional treatment of these matters in the future? These are very difficult issues to attend to, to use animals for purposes other than their own having any interest in, must be dealt with with with with very strong ethical considerations. We must have professional assessments related to it, and also have systems where it is not the same body that takes decisions that will also deal with the appeal. So SV will support the setting and also the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2142	Without prejudice to the consent of the EEA Joint Committee, the EEA Joint Committee has decided to include in the EEA Agreement a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The main objective of the Directive is to ensure the well-being and improvement of conditions for experimental animals. In addition, the aim of the Directive is to contribute to improving the quality of research, to ensuring high standards of animal and human health and to protecting the environment. The use of animals for scientific purposes is, in many respects, essential for the medical progress and development of new medicinal products. At the same time, the use of laboratory animals raises various ethical issues. I therefore believe that it is necessary to have clear legislation to ensure that animals are not subjected to more stress than is necessary. The new Directive strengthens the ethical requirements for the conditions of experimental animals and the principle that the use of laboratory animals should be replaced as far as possible by other methods. I believe that we will have a more predictable and appropriate legislation that will take greater care of animal welfare. The Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes contains important amendments. It will be mandatory to carry out ethical assessments prior to authorisation for projects using animals and an increased focus will be placed on replacing animal testing with alternative methods. The requirements for the use of alternative methods are based on the 3R principle. 3R stands for ‘Replacement, Reduction and Refinement’. This means that as far as possible animal testing should be replaced by alternatives, that the number of animals tested should be reduced, and that animal testing should be improved in order to reduce suffering and increase animal welfare and utility. The new legislation provides for the authorisation of all experimental animal activities and provides for specific requirements to be met in order for authorisation to be granted. The new Directive also imposes a number of requirements on supervisory authorities. It is held, among other things: requirements for assessing applications for authorisation of projects, requirements for inspection of experimental animal establishments, project evaluation requirements and reporting. The supervisory authority shall carry out regular inspections of the establishments appropriate to a risk analysis. All these elements will help to ensure that legislation is complied with and that animal welfare is properly protected. An important change compared to today’s Norwegian legislation is that there will no longer be an opportunity for employees in the enterprise – local managers – to give approval to single attempts. Persons employed in the establishment will not be able to meet the requirements of the Directive on stability. In the proposal, we briefed on how the management of the directive is planned to be organised in Norway. Food surveillance will be assigned to the tasks of authority under the new test animal regulation. The competence of food surveillance in the field of animal welfare and supervision will be important in order to follow up the reinforced requirements for the inspection of establishments. The Food Authority will also establish its own unit, such as: shall evaluate and approve all animal tests. A National Advisory Committee on Animals will also be established, including: shall advise the Food Safety Authority on all aspects of the protection of laboratory animals and share experience with other EEA authorities. I am pleased that a large majority of the Committee believes this will be a good model for the management of this specialised area. The experimental animal area is special and has a stronger international profile and international interdependence than many other areas. Norway has relatively small professional environments and few people with experimental animal competence. I believe it is important to ensure Norwegian participation in European regulatory development, research and development in the field. The inclusion of the Directive in Norwegian law will contribute to this. The new Directive will improve animal welfare for experimental animals and will more effectively ensure the exchange of experience and consistent practices across the EEA territory. These are important considerations, and it is important that we contribute as far as possible to improving the welfare and conditions of animals used for scientific purposes. I am therefore pleased that the Industry Committee recommends that the Directive be incorporated into the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2174	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2178	As stated in the file today, both the supervisory part of this and, to the extent, the other part of it shall be dealt with within the budgetary framework in force. It's not a surprise for any of us. But a good part of the discussion related to the effect of such a change of rules will depend on the availability of sufficient resources. Does the Council of State consider that it is necessary to increase the appropriations for this work and, in that case, will it consider doing so in the budget proposal submitted for the autumn and relating to the State budget for 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2185	The Food Authority has provided us with estimates of how much they think this will cost, and we have arranged for this task to be taken into account already in the current year's budget. Therefore, the Food Safety Authority is in the process of developing a proposal for charging legislation that will apply to this area. If it turns out that the need gets bigger, I am absolutely sure that the Food Agency will report back to us, and then we need to find solutions to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2190	With the model that you set out to implement the Directive in Norway, Norway will be the only country in Scandinavia that does not have interdisciplinary ethical committees to assess applications for animal testing. Is it, in the opinion of the Council of State, that the model we choose in Norway is better suited to the animals and their users than to the solution they have chosen in our neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2197	We recommend this model because we believe it is well adapted to Norwegian circumstances. For example, as I'm familiar with our neighboring country, the pharmaceutical industry larger than in Norway. There is also a larger experimental animal activity in some of our neighbouring countries than in Norway. One of the challenges in Norway is that we have quite a few people with competence in this area, and therefore we propose to have a separate unit at the Food Authority. It has to be located in Sandnes, and it must be enjoyed by the representative Pollestad. Regional offices can also be involved in this. Both preparatory procedures and inspections may be carried out by the Food Authority on a regional basis. So there will be more than the people who will sit in Sandnes, who will be involved in this from the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2206	I'm glad it's coming to Sandnes -- let me make it clear. I was familiar with that too. But let's not be affected by that kind of consideration. Here it is primarily the best we have for the test animals. The proposition does not take into account the fact that there will be a growth in the number of animal tests. There has been steady growth in recent years, and the Directive will require more authorisations. Why is it that the proposal does not take account of the fact that a person will receive an increase in the number of applications for treatment, and will this be followed up in the future budget if it appears that the project and management are underfunded?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2215	We're dealing with the recordings we've received from the Food Authority, and if it turns out that the need is greater, and that there are more applications coming in than provided, of course, we have to deal with them when we get any messages about it. It's natural. Of course, it must also be taken into account financially, by making sure that the Food Safety Authority is able to cover the expenses they have with this. We have already secured that within the year's budget, and of course we will also have a close eye in the years to come, if that should prove to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2220	I do not think the Council of State answers as to why Norway should organise this completely differently from other countries. It's okay that they might have greater volume on animal testing and that kind of thing, but it's not about the principle of the structure of how these things are decided, among other things. with regard to who shall be the appeal body, and this with regard to having interdisciplinary regional and national committees with permanent experts to advise. It's a principle way of thinking, both professionally and in terms of instability and legal certainty. It really has nothing to do with volume, but is a principleal thinking about how governance should happen. Does the Council of State see that there are fundamental ethical aspects to take care of in the management model?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2227	That is precisely what we want to do when we bring in the directive now, because in the past there were people who were employed in the establishments, who would have a ‘go’ to carry out these trials, and who put them in and treated them. It was a rather unyielding model, if one looks at it like that. I believe that the solution that we have now found is good. It takes into account the country in which we live, and that we have a smaller pharmaceutical industry and a smaller size of experimental animal activity than any of our neighbouring countries have. We shall have both an expert committee and a national committee for the protection of laboratory animals. If it's going to be the same thing, we'll see. But we have a good starting point for the composition of the committee that works today. We think it's natural to look at it and build on the kind of composition that we have there. So there will also be others outside that will still affect the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2234	No one has arranged to keep the model we have had. Everyone's happy that we're going to get a new model. The question is whether the model we now get is good enough in different areas. When it is proposed to wind up the Experimental Animal Committee and replace it with a committee which – as I understand it – will operate a little more with ad hoc handling of different issues, the uncertainty arises in relation to the technical advice and to how professional this will be. Does the Council of State consider that such an ad hoc procedure and a composite committee could replace a permanent selection of professionals, where both experts and animal protection interests are represented on a permanent basis and provide advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2241	I am pleased that a large majority agree that the model we have presented takes good care of the interests. You should also have, as I have been told, a selection of experts – a selection from which the Food Safety Authority can obtain opinions if they do not have competence in what they are dealing with. A national committee for the protection of laboratory animals shall be set up to advise both the supervisory authorities and animal welfare units in the experimental animal activities on matters relating to the acquisition, rearing, housing, care and use of animals for experimental purposes and to the exchange of best practices. So also in the future, this type of sample has an impact on this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2246	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 14-19 is dealt with as a whole – it is deemed to have been adopted. The cases relate to the second processing of legal acts and to the laws of 64–69.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2319	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 14-19. Before calling to vote, Councillor Sylvi Listhaug will transfer 7 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2332	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. I can reassure the House that there are few sharp votes today!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2524	In Case No: No voting theme is available from 7 to 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2548	In the course of the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Pollestad on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting with proposals for financing and organisation of the supervisory model using animals for scientific purposes.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2581	Case No. 14–19 is the second reading of the law and applies to legislative acts 65 to 69. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading, and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-12.ana.ud648e2763	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
