ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e84	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus Province: Kjartan Berland For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Tor André Johnsen on leave from 4 June to 8 June in order to take part in the election observation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the Turkish Parliamentary elections of the Committee of the Regions of the Progress Party on the leave of the representatives of Mr Inbjørg Amanda Gössken and Mr Morten Wold from 4 June to 9 June in order to take part in the parliamentary elections of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Turkey Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, and for the Buskerud County, Tone Heimdal Brataas, respectively, applications are made for exemption from meeting in the Stortinge under the representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Vokskesen and Morten Wolds, respectively, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the East-Agder County: Odd Gunnar TveitFor Buskerud County: Lavrans KierulfFor Hedmark County: Hege Jensen Odd Gunnar Tveit, Lavrans Kierulf and Hege Jensen are present and will take the seat. The representative of Terje Aasland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e148	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr Sivertsen, Mr Else-May Botten, Mr Sund, Mr Rommetveit and myself on the use of zero-emission technology in ferry transport and the use of new technologies in short sea shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e153	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e156	On behalf of the representatives of Marianne Aasen, Jonas Gahr Støre, Rigmor Aasrud, Kari Henriksen, Ruth Grung, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren and myself, I am delighted to propose a systematic and long-term national plan for the peace and human rights centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e161	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e177	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e184	As the rapporteur, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the proposers for making a good proposal on strengthening the Norwegian industry. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Committee is unanimous on the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to provide a major report on the industry’s environment’.» Norwegian industry has helped lay the foundation for the welfare society we have today. An industry notification will focus on how to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in the future. It will provide us with a good basis for discussing the industry's framework. The Workers' Party believes that the Communication should discuss various measures that could provide a basis for shifting towards new green growth, and we should also look at how public instruments can contribute to this. The notification should, in the view of the Labour Party, have a broad approach to industry, covering the entire spectrum of Norwegian industry, but with a particular focus on opportunities in areas where Norway has a distinct advantage, such as marine and maritime industries and renewable energy. A relevant theme in this context is the role of industry in the low-carbon society. It will also be important to look at shifting towards the important bioeconomy, which ensures further processing of our natural resources, while at the same time focusing on new industries. We are also committed to facilitating a new, profitable and forward-looking power-processing industry, and it should have a natural place in the notification. Policies can contribute to new industrial growth while reducing emissions. In the Workers' Party, we are also concerned that we correct the instrument, and that we are going through the whole tool chain for research, development, demonstration, scaling up, commercialisation and export efforts to ensure that it is linked and meets the needs of the industry. The need to invest in the skilled worker should also be given attention in the notification. The Committee points out in particular that ENOVA is an important instrument for industry and also refers to the Climate and Technology Fund as an important instrument for stimulating the deployment of new climate-friendly solutions. The Committee therefore considers it important that the arrangements and use of the returns of the Fund be assessed on an ongoing basis. The Labour Party sees industry and its role as exceptionally important for the green shift and what we shall live on in the future. The Workers' Party has set up its own industrial committee to present an industrial strategy based on some of the facts I have had in this post. Even if we are to receive an industrial report, it will take some time before it is presented. In this context, I would like to end by stressing that it is important that we pursue an active industrial policy along the way. We cannot wait for the message, especially at a time when there is a need for conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e211	When we see investment in the oil and gas sector decreasing, it has been important both for the Right and for the Government to convert into a new reality. It is an objective to create new economic activity, to strengthen competitiveness and to develop traditional industries. Since the new government came into place, the competitiveness of industry and industry has gradually improved through a historical commitment to transport. The research and development budget has been strengthened, the wealth tax, which favours foreign ownership, has been reduced, and there are general tax provisions. In addition to this, several industry-specific measures, such as drug use, are emerging. supported for the pilot plant on Hydro Karmøy. This was an investment in the billions class. The government has thus strengthened the future to Norwegian industry and increased the competitiveness of Norwegian export industries through a range of both industry-specific and sector-specific industry-related measures. All these measures have been requested by industry to improve competitiveness. The Christian People's Party is proposing a roll-call announcement on the framework conditions for the Norwegian industry in November 2014. The background was, as I understand it, this two-part division of the Norwegian economy that we all know about, and besides the start of a weaker oil price and a heavy Norwegian krone and the need to facilitate more land-based industry. Norway is a very good country to live in, someone would claim that it might be the world's best country to live in. The oil and gas industries have drilled us into an adventurous economic wave. Our oil and gas exports have given us a fantastic welfare promise as a nation. The oil price drop is a strong warning that such a status rarely enters the river. Although, as a nation, we must have the ambition to be world-leading in oil and gas operations, both offshore and subsea, as long as oil and gas are extracted, it is a great deal of agreement that Norway needs more nutrient bones than just the petroleum sector. Norwegian welfare must be built on more foundations than oil and gas alone. One should thus facilitate the increase in the value of several sectors of industry by strengthening competitiveness. What we need are safe jobs and investment in new jobs in Norway. Good access to capital is central. Private ownership is the most important and common feature of business, and access to private capital is particularly important in order to achieve the transformation of Norwegian business now needed. Strengthening Norwegian competitiveness was one of the most important issues in the election campaign, which the government has now followed very closely. Since the draft document 8, the oil price and the price have fallen further. The best way to prepare and implement the necessary measures for conversion into Norwegian industry and business is thus somewhat uncertain. It is important, then, to note the many comments on the subject, that it is important that the work on the ongoing actions does not stop and is replaced by this reporting work. The important thing here is that the government party has got the bulk of it to say that the notification work must not prevent the ongoing introduction of new measures for the conversion of Norwegian business. This means that the measures already undertaken by the government — on the tax side as well as in the forestry, maritime, mineral, bioeconomy, energy and travel, etc. - gets an implementation that is not disturbed by the fact that an industrial message is also being prepared. The Committee's plurality indicates that it is preferable for the work already done by the government to be completed by a theme-based message process. The current theme of the message work can be the role of industry in the transition to a low-carbon society and in creating green growth, how we can facilitate a possible transfer of competence from one industry to another industry in the best possible way, and not least how forward-looking digitised and automated industrial production can best be met. Here, both the power of action and the efficiency of implementation are side by side with the development of new policies, and both are particularly important to equip Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e232	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good job. He's managed to unite the committee. It is really time for an own big message about the industry's framework conditions. As someone may remember, it has not been so many years – two to three years – that the Progress Party has put forward proposals on the same subject. Then the wording was: "The government is asking for a roll-call report on the industry's framework conditions." That's when the proposal fell. Now is the word: ‘The government is asked to provide a major report on the industry’s environment’.» The proposal is promoted by the Christian People's Party, and it is now a unanimous nutrition committee behind this. This is very pleasing – for several reasons. As has been said by the spokesperson several times and mentioned in committee proceedings, in different settings, the Stortinget has dealt with recent years both fisheries notification, agricultural notification, research notification and petroleum notification, and there are several other notifications in progress, but the need for a separate industrial message has not been there until now – there is now a vote for it by the majority of the committee – although there are many major challenges in the competitive industry. It was also a challenge in 2012 when the Progress Party made proposals to this effect, including: in the light of the 2012 Annual Economic Report, Norway, which showed a two-tiered Norwegian industry. And now it's getting even worse. At the time, the oil and gas industries experienced growth, while other traditional industries, the mainland industry, were very heavy with high costs and an export market that developed very negatively. However, the concern and negative development of the traditional mainland industry has been discouraging long before that. I remember very well when I was in a campaign in 2001, 15–16 years ago. Already at that time, the industry on the agenda was exposed to competition. One of the reasons I remember it very well is, of course, that today's industry on 4 September 2001 had a larger article about which party had the best policy to strengthen the competitive industry. They had asked the SSB – Statistical Central Bureau – to make calculations of the batch programmes of the various parties. The conclusion came over two full pages with images of then party leader Carl I. Hagen, with the title: «Industrie best out with Hagen». The calculations and figures showed that the yield of the oil fund should be used for tax relief, the aim of which was to strengthen the competitive industry. There was no bet on the tax bill that was the fasit, nor to spend more money, as at least SV and the Workers' Party would at the time, but it was to give tax relief, as the Progress Party wants. Now this is many years ago, but I would say that the principles are the same, so I hope and ask that the forthcoming Industry Communication discuss this to a large extent: what are the best ways to strengthen the competitive industry. Tax policy must then be looked at, but it must also, I believe, be vigorously cleared and abolished by a number of strange taxes and taxes – taxes which today, without doubt, make the Norwegian industry a competitive disadvantage. The economy also calls for access to risk capital. Here the government has already delivered something and is still working on more, but there is something an industry message has to look at: if today's instruments are good enough. It is also necessary to look at the continued development of the road network. I know, of course, that the government and my colleague Ketil Solvik-Olsen are working on this day and night, but probably there will have to be even more effort on it, and then without bomb charges. In addition, the Government records that the Christian People's Party in its proposal for a representative, inter alia: mentions the need to take a closer look at the depreciation rates. I believe that the government parties can quickly agree with the Christian People's Party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e264	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good piece of work on this matter. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have had an impact on the arrival of a big report on industrial policy. It is important to keep the jobs we have today, but it is also important in order to facilitate future jobs. Yeah, it's about future generations. This is particularly important for those who are now affected by a change in the Norwegian economy. We have a new working day both in politics and in the economy. Just after the political change of government that we had in the election, we also see the outlines of a government shift in the economy. Oil prices have halved in recent years. Future prospects in the oil sector are at best uncertain. We are no longer talking about ‘if’ we are facing a change, but ‘when’. As politicians, we have a duty not only to see the challenges, but also the solutions and opportunities, and there are many of them. This creates a room, especially for the mainland economy. Weaker heads and greater access to competence were all industrial dreams a few years ago. Now it's an increasingly current reality. We see the contours of several industrial adventures around Norway. In my own state, Borregaard is a good example. With 750 employees and 2,000 annual works from Norwegian subcontractors, they contribute up to 1.2 billion. D to the community, which again employs teachers, doctors and policemen, and we can build roads, schools and hospitals. When the Christian People's Party thinks about sustainability and organization for the next generation, it may be easy to think about the environment and climate as the most important thing, but in a generation perspective it is also crucial to create values for future generations. This is done by facilitating innovation and innovation and the further development of existing activities. In many cases, the environment and industry go hand in hand. Norwegian industry is the world leader in environmental technology. This has come as a result of a joint wish from industry and the authorities for a less environmentally sensitive industry. State support for the development of environmental technologies has been an important driver. Now we see that industry has gone from being part of the climate challenges to being part of the solution. One example is the bioeconomy, where renewable resources such as wood, seaweed are used to produce energy with very low climate emissions. The same applies to the use of clean hydropower to produce power-intensive products such as aluminium. Now it is also being arranged to allow data centres, which require enormous amounts of energy, to be added to Norway in order to absorb the clean power of which we produce a lot. The big industrial adventures don't come of their own. They are a result of the willingness of the industry and the organisation of the authorities. We need more organisation in Norway, so that we stay in front of the industries that will deliver tomorrow’s solutions. Then we need to step up our efforts. Support for research, innovation and innovation needs to be strengthened. Taxes should be changed in a more entrepreneurial direction. Roads and railways must be developed. We have to bet on real science, etc. We also need to pay attention to the most important assumption for many export companies, namely the krone price. All this will facilitate increased investment in Norwegian industry. We still have among the highest wages in the world. So we still have to deliver the best solutions. That's the only way out of this. These frameworks should form the basis for bringing together politicians, trade unions, businesses and organisations and developing new policies that are best for our industry in the long term. Substantial and lasting changes in the economy require substantial and lasting political work. It is not done through strategies, action plans or budgets. It is done in a combination of gross domestic product and budgets. That is why the Christian People's Party looks forward to an industrial announcement. And yes – we are pleased to take on this work as soon as the message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e290	First, I would like to thank the proposers and the rapporteur for the job and for a decision to get a big message. It's a pleasure. The centre party is concerned that it must have a long-term perspective and a broadest possible approach to the various industrial issues. There are some things that are essential. Access to cheap and environmentally friendly power is very important for building business, for building industry. The message must look at how we can use the force, but also how we can ensure that our industry has safe access to clean and safe power. That requirement applies to the whole country. The centre party is also concerned that we should use state ownership as an instrument to facilitate industrial construction in Norway. That's why today's news is so sad – that Statkraft has put the Fosen/Snillfjord project away. First, there is one of the largest investment projects in mainland Norway ever, now it's gone. This has happened despite the fact that the Storting granted 10 billion in December. kr and Statkraft just used this project to learn to get this decision. Now I'm recording that the Council of State is on the ball and has asked State Force for an orientation. I think that is quite right, because, in the view of the Centre Party, a simple cannot accept the conclusion that the Government of the State has made today. Few assumptions have changed, they have rather improved since the decision was taken. Then there is no reason not to follow it up. For one, for industry and industrial construction in Central Norway, it has been a very demanding year in the past – and not long ago. This was one of the projects that was supposed to ensure Middle Norway a just as secure access to power as the rest of the country. Furthermore, I would encourage the Council of State not to make a what-we-live-off-after-oil message. For either the oil price in five years is 30 or 100 dollars, there is a need for one in Norway to rate on industrial construction. The centre party will also stress that we want the notification to have a clear perspective for putting the whole country into use. It is both a matter of facilitating new industries and, perhaps not least, of building on the industrial sites we have today. There are many industries you could point to, but for the Center Party it will be especially important for industries that are based on our natural resources, and we believe that in the future too the forest, fish and hydropower will be carriers in Norwegian industry. These resources have made Norway a rich country. The oil has made us a runaway country. I think that the future is hardly going to be very different in terms of the prospects for these industries, than the importance they've had up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e303	The issue of industrial framework conditions is more topical than for a long time – it is hyper topical – so thank the representatives of the Christian People's Party who have raised this matter, and thank you to the President and other members of the Committee for the work. Yesterday, rapporteurs were gathered in Stavanger – rapporteurs from the municipalities and parts of the country that are particularly affected by the challenges facing the petroleum industry. It is this part of Norwegian industry that is now facing the greatest challenges. Many jobs are at stake now, and it is very positive that municipal leaders thank – and I expect them to take the green direction. For it is now time to show political leadership for the next few years by strengthening the framework conditions for industry and ensuring green transition in all sectors, thereby strengthening Norway’s competitiveness and creating new jobs. As it is today, it is a major challenge that 90 pst. industrial investment takes place in petroleum-related enterprises. This contributes to an excessive share of the total investment being linked to one cluster — and thus to an excessive share of investment in e.g. the green industries of the future. In the Left, we therefore want an industrial notification to be promoted in order to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, which contributes to green growth and the implementation of the green shift. There are already important development processes in progress. In the government's work, I would like to highlight some issues and some areas that are particularly important for the Left, on which we have chosen to focus steel, and on which the Left in particular will give priority to working: it's seafood and other parts of the marine sector, including the fishing industry, it's the maritime sector, and it's the food industry and travel life. The left will work for a green travel life. The story has already asked for a travel life message that we have expectations for. In addition, the bioeconomy strategy is an important point, which the Left believes should be blue-green, so that the entire fishery and aquaculture industry and the agricultural industry contribute to a world-leading Norway in the bioeconomy. In this work, I would also like to point out the importance of the policy adopted by the Storing and the Government being broadly anchored in society, making it easy for industry and industry to implement all policy measures, initiatives, etc. For this reason, the government and we here at Stortinget are now going to come together with academia, stakeholder organisations and business actors to find the framework and measures to create a sustainable shift in the economy, which exploits as much as possible our natural assumptions and high competences. But I would like to use the opportunity to stress that it is important for the Left that there are also concrete solutions to the current situation and challenges the next time before the big picture is available. It was both the case rapporteur and others in the past. That is why I will refer to the 2015 state budget and the agreement between the cooperation parties, which is already a major focus on research and innovation in industry and industry. More programmes in Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council have been strengthened, and two new nationwide seed funds of 300 million. to be established during these days. Overall, the adopted State budget for 2015 contributes to a shift in the pace of increased competitiveness of Norwegian industry. We're going to use that for what it's worth. The left will vote for a government report on industry's framework conditions to be presented. For the Left, it is important that we prepare Norway for the challenges of the future – including current challenges – and that Norway’s competitive edge be strengthened in a green direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e318	This proposal places an important theme on the agenda. It is about how we strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian companies – and how we thus ensure both existing jobs and contribute to the creation of new ones. As I wrote in my reply to the nutrition committee on 4 December, increasing competitiveness is one of the government's most important tasks. I share the representatives' assessment of the challenges facing industry. At the same time, these are issues that mainly concern business as well. A Joint Liaison Committee calls on the Government to present its own report on industry’s framework conditions. Working with a big message provides an opportunity to assess key industrial trends and themes. Of course, I would like to take with me the views expressed in the Stortingen debate today. The government’s industrial and industrial policies aim at contributing to change and innovation. The aim is to maximise value creation in industry and the rest of the world. At the same time, climate and environmental challenges mean that we must work to stimulate a greener business. If we are to succeed, the whole of business needs to become more efficient, drive smarter and continuous investment in more environmentally friendly production. Of course, industry is a very central part of this. The government has a broad industrial policy. Among other things, we have reduced taxes on wealth in order to make ownership of enterprises more attractive and profitable. We are creating a sustainable and green business. Strengthening the Enova and the Eco-Technology Scheme also contributes to this. On that occasion, it is also right to join the head of the nutrition committee in today's announcement from Statkraft, and of course I am following this up. It is important to maintain a competitive policy for a well-functioning market and to work to facilitate trade and market access – and on the part of the government we also have a strong commitment to trade. We focus on industrial research, innovation and entrepreneurship. The budget in this important area has increased by nearly 1 billion. kr since the government change. We simplify the laws and regulations that businesses have to deal with in order to reduce the time spent by businesses. We have put forward a maritime strategy. We are working both with a business plan and a bioeconomy strategy, and we are going to present a big deal about travel next spring. The government is therefore working on a number of measures and processes that are important for the development and competitiveness of industry. The Scheel Committee’s investigation has provided important input to a growth-enhancing tax policy. The scope and level of existing environmental taxes should be assessed by the Green Tax Commission and whether charges should be imposed that can be accurate in new areas. In addition, the government will present a global communication on a comprehensive energy policy, which is also important for industry. We also carry out a review of Innovation Norway where we also assess the interfaces with SIVA and the Norwegian Research Council. Norwegian industry has proven to be good compared to industry in many countries it is natural to compare with, and although there are increasing challenges in the petroleum industry, there is no crisis for Norwegian industry. According to the economic report of Norwegian Industry, which came earlier this year, industrial enterprises expect a total turnover growth of 2-3 pst. in 2015. Export companies are expecting a growth, but a decline in the domestic market is expected. So we have an industry that creates great values, with a lot of knowledge and smart minds, and that's good at using new technology. Norwegian industry is highly adaptable. Key industrial companies have long been involved in the development of environmentally friendly and climate-friendly technologies. Changes are constantly important for the development of industry. We must have a good understanding of the role of industry in a necessary green shift in the economy. Structural changes are taking place in the economy and in production. This affects the framework for industrial activities in Norway in the future, which, of course, also affects the framework of industrial and industrial policy. Government policies are important for industrial competitiveness and development. We have good contact with industry, both industry organisations and individual companies. We have therefore started work on important areas of importance for the industrial environment, and we will, of course, follow up the advice of the Industry Committee to present a comprehensive communication on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e346	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e349	I believe that the Council of State's intervention is in favour of the proposal, but as I read the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee on this proposal, it may seem that the Council of State does not consider that there is a need to promote its own big message, but that the government would rather take matters through its own processes. The same was also stated by the representative Trellevik in his statement. I share the view of the Council of State that there is no need to wait for a notification, and that there is a need to act and to take action along the way. But the question is: does the Council share the Committee's view, that there is a need for a separate industrial communication, and that it will help to see the whole in order to ensure the competitiveness of industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e357	I explained in my reply to the Committee on all the processes we have started, which I am also committed to implementing. So it's true, as the representative says, that I said I would follow this closely. I think the time is right now, but it has to be followed up by continuous policy every day; you can't wait for a message. But it's a good time to describe the challenges of industry, try to understand the framework we're looking at in the future, and that we're seeing change all the time. So we're going to do what the committee asks for, and we're going to support the committee's position on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e364	I said in my post that access to power has been and is one of Norway's advantages in industrial construction. We have had a unclear situation about the security of supply in Middle Norway. One of the things that was going to solve this was an investment decision and a construction of the wind power project on Fosen and Snillfjord. Now it has been announced that it has stopped. I have registered that the Council of State has sent a letter asking for an explanation. My question is: Is it relevant, depending on when a person receives a response to the letter, to do something to ensure that this important project, an investment of about 20 billion. kr, is actually implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e369	This resolution is surprising in several ways, and there I share the representative's view, as it emerged from the pulpit. We are now asking for a justification for that decision. First of all, we want to know what has changed since December and until now, and has changed the decision-making basis. Then the Minister of Oil and Energy is looking at the consequences for Middle Norway, because this is linked to important investments that Statnett should have made. As far as the decision is concerned, the board of directors of the company takes a decision. We do not do that in the government, but we now have to go through the statement we are probably getting quite soon, and then we have to get back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e376	I thank you for your answer. It is right, as has been said, that the board is responsible. But just to clarify it formally, does the government have any opportunity to review the decision taken by the board?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e383	The government does not formally take individual decisions in companies, but the government may take a view of the strategy plan presented by the company for government and for expansion, on the basis of it and the process around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e388	The developments we see in Norwegian industry, and especially in oil-related ones, can help us to panic, but at the same time, there are probably several – including the Council of State and Government – who see this open up too many opportunities. I want to bring forward the forest industry and the forest-industrial initiatives that are now in the process of reporting, and it is in many ways very similar to what many of the debaters today have shown that we need, new industry based on new resources, it should be climate-friendly and renewable, and it also contributes to attracting much of the skills that we see need to be shifted in an industrial development. The forest industry is facing major challenges, and we have, among other things, sees capital supply as a challenge, and low use of, among others. the funds of Investinor. Is it relevant for the government to look at possible measures to improve the capital supply for this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e395	First of all, I very much agree with that description. This is critical, and it is a crisis for the people affected, but for the industry as a whole we are in a cyclical change. It's a conversion situation we've seen before, and we're going to see it again, and we have an industry that's nice to change. In particular, it is important to apply new technologies in both existing and new areas. We produced things 50 years ago that we're not doing today, and we're going to produce things in 50 years that we're not doing today. So investing in knowledge becomes incredibly important. I also see many possibilities of bioeconomy in the field of forestry, and it is worrying that the facilities we have, the means we have, among other things. through Investinor, not functioning in the manner it intended. We're going to review it now, and we're going to come back to it, because when we have capital available, it's important to use it purposefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e402	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e407	I will – I was about to say – continue where the line fell. I fully agree with the representative Ove Trellevik and others who have stated that working with a big message in this field is important. However, there must be no resting-put at all for it to be — both here in the United Kingdom, and in particular the government as a executive — ‘hands on’ in terms of developments related to a good number of industrial actors in Norway. I want to use these short three minutes to address two issues, which are local, on the basis of where I come from, Hedmark, but which I believe have national significance. The first is what the line said, the question of the development of a larger, maybe a different type, forest industry than what we have today – not just the traditional one, but that we continue on a lot of the track that we, among other things, are. sees Borregaard and other actors now developing too fully. There is a very exciting industrial development in which Norway can have many advantages. I want, as strongly as I can, to encourage the government to come to the Stortinget as quickly as possible with measures that contribute to, among other things. follow-up of Forest 22 in many areas, but in particular related to research and development. It's about building a strong, perhaps fewer, environment of competence than what we have today, because they're quite vulnerable and fragmented in that area, and not least few to – now that it looks like a good deal of ideas are actually in the mood – a capital injection to this that makes it possible to get started. I believe that a good part of the capital players we are involved in the instrumentation must be able to cope with, among other things. to reduce the risk requirements somewhat so that it is possible to come in earlier in order to develop quite as good ideas. Here we are talking about both biofuels, biofuels and many other facets, which would also create a win-win situation in climate terms. The second thing I want to point out – I know that the Minister of Industry has been concerned about it, and the previous government was concerned about it – is that we have a pharmaceutical industry that is about to disappear out of the country. At Elverum we had Nycomed Pharma, which is to close the doors on 1 July. Negotiable, inter alia: Based on good assistance from the previous and current government, it has been possible to establish a new core activity called Curida. And I want to use this opportunity to strongly encourage you to go into the planned business and see if you can contribute, so that we can still maintain a strong industry in Norway in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e418	The representative, Mr. Hemdal, stated that an active enterprise policy requires good organisation by the authorities, a combination of good organisation and willingness to bet – and I very much agree with that. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government has already done a lot, so I am very pleased with the majority comment that it is necessary to be able to take action on an ongoing basis – not pending a big message. Because, as Trellevik also pointed out, the government has made a number of active priorities in the state budget since its accession, which are directly aimed at improving competitiveness. It has been a main theme of this government ever since accession. Research and development, R & D, transport and tax policies are at the heart of the business base. And it's pretty incomprehensible to hear the red-green arguments around the wealth tax, and that you don't realize that extracting capital from Business Norway weakens its ability to bet on new things. So here's a series of overall political approaches in several areas, and there's also a series of approaches when you go down to individual industries: maritime we've just been through, aquaculture we have a big message about what's in the Storting, and on agriculture everyone knows what discussion we have about creating greater competitiveness. So it's a strong focus from the government on this. So I would really like Odd Omland to have been the biggest representative in the previous two periods, because we can't forget that a number of the traditional industries experienced so bad competitive conditions under the red-greens that they almost disappeared. This concerns the forest industry for which Storberget is now so concerned, in the pharmaceutical industry, and a number of industries that should have a future in front of them, but which were simply out of competition by a level of wages and costs in Norway which made them unable to compete in international competition. It is also necessary to organise properly. We all have Doria in the back of our heads. It was a venture in which the state went into a venture that in many ways destroyed very many small and medium-sized enterprises in wood processing, i.e. in the door and window markets in Norway, and that then went bankrupt. So it's also important that here we use the right grips to reach a forward-looking industry, and I think it's a very good start with the majority comment on which document 8 is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e431	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur, Mr Omland, for working on the setting. I noticed that he said in his post that Norwegian industrial competitiveness must be ensured. I fully agree with that, but the government also has an ambition to increase that competitiveness, and I think that is important. Because it is quite right, as the representative Gunnar Gundersen pointed out in his speech, that there was a lack of investment in Norwegian industry during the previous government. That was also why, at the time, we proposed a representative to get a message to the Stortinget, but as the red-greens at the time voted down. There are many industries and sectors to put the word ‘industry’ after. It is finished products, health, fish, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, pharmaceuticals, minerals, power, etc. It is clear that when it comes to making a notification, that communication could draw up the broad lines, and common to all of them is that they are in strong competition, strong international competition. And then we have to look at the conditions that make it possible for us to provide good tools for these industries as a whole, and then, as mentioned earlier, this tax and tax thing is absolutely crucial. The wealth tax is mentioned, it can't be mentioned too often, and I think it would be an exasperating grip to be able to do anything with it. This government has done a lot and does a lot of things all the time, because, as many have said, it's important that you're on the ball all the time when it comes to facilitating business and industry. This government does it every day and this Council of State does it every day – strengthens Norwegian business and Norwegian industry. The last thing that was presented is a new maritime strategy, which was hailed by a total industry, so it shows that the government and the government are on the ball every day. It is quite interesting to note that the representative Pollestad is concerned about the power situation in central Norway. I was worried about that also under the previous government. So the previous government really didn't do anything to strengthen that situation, but I'm glad that Pollestad, like me, trusts that this government will solve the challenge that the red-greens didn't solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e443	The size has previously dealt with the fisheries notification, the agricultural notification, the research message and the petroleum notification, and today there is a majority of a large-scale report on strengthening the Norwegian industry. As a co-rapporteur for the draft representative on measures to strengthen Norwegian industry, which we are discussing today, I am pleased that the government will now present an industrial message to the Stortinget. Already in the autumn of 2014, the census gave us the clear message: “The oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth.” The maritime cluster in More and Romesdal, which is closest to my heart, is likely to enter into a period that becomes commercially demanding in the coming years. We should have a vision of establishing the world's most efficient and environmentally friendly maritime transport in Norwegian waters. The average age of Norwegian ferries and speedboats is close to 30 years, many of which are pure emissions bombs. In the Question Time of 4 March this year, I challenged the Prime Minister on how the government could stimulate a green shift within the maritime industry. The Prime Minister suggests in the answer I received that this is a work that should be done between different departments, different industries and others to look at effective action. Some conclusions as to whether the most effective is to get ahead in fast boat construction, to enter into new contracts in ferry services or to build bridges in this country, especially in the West, did not give the Prime Minister in the Questionnaire. This is why, among other things, the link between strengthening Norwegian industry and the development of green actions in fuel technology becomes an overall policy via an industry notification. On 20 May this year, NRK Morene and Romsdal reported that the Norwegian Veritas have analysed 52 ferry routes, and if they are replaced by electric ferries, this could cut the total emissions by about 40 pst. Elfers provide savings on fuel costs, which in turn provide competitive advantages in contracts for the construction of new and ground-breaking ferries. The Government and the Christian People's Party aim at Norway being among Europe's most innovative countries, and industry is one of the main areas of such development. I see that time is running out of me. I would like to comment on Ove Bernt Trellevik's concern: I think the government will deal with doing both parts, both to provide a message and to have measures that are important in this situation. We also think that it's not just the maritime industry that's important. We also see that we have a lot of competence across the country, and this competence should not be confused. This is the case for the woodworking industry, which has had many challenges this year, in terms of the metal industry and furniture industries. Yes, there are many challenges and many opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e460	I would like to first agree with the last speaker, but I think it is important that we look at what is the main reason why we have had so much success in our industrial policy, despite a high international salary level, and I think that is especially the ability we have to change and to find creative and smart solutions. This applies in particular to two areas. One is that we have organized the companies so that they are short on internal business, but also that we have the ability to go across industries and to use the skills. This is particularly evident in the West — from maritime industry to offshore maintenance, and now to marine industry and shipping — where the technology is used to see if there are opportunities to get more of the facilities at sea and parts of the production to land. But as a member of the Health and Care Committee, I want first of all to use the time to raise a new industry where there is a great potential, and that is in the health industry. Because it has been challenging to see that when we invest so much in research in this area, we are unable to capitalize anymore. Although there are some great stories, we believe that there is a great potential, and not least Health Care21 points to that. We also have niches where we are all in the world class, as in personalised medicine, which is the next thing on the agenda here today. The working party doesn't think it helps with nutrition neutrality. One has to go in and see what are the special challenges within the individual industries. Especially in the field of pharmaceuticals and the development of drugs — in the field of clinical research — it takes an incredibly long time to take into account the distribution of risks and the value chain. So I'm very happy that the Left participated in securing more funds for a seed scheme. We think that's an important element. I know that the Sarsia Fund in Bergen has done a lot of good in this area. But it's also about looking at culture internally in health. There are an incredible number of good people, but they don't think nourishment. Premizing those who raise this field, we also think it's important. Then you also have to see the relationship between the bioeconomy and the marine industry and connect it more closely. There is also a potential. The joy is that within this field the Workers' Party, together with the Right, has promised this in our committee. So we hope that the work in the future will be able to coordinate the different areas and lift them up, because this is an industry that is in its infancy beginning, at least on a Norwegian scale, but it has great potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e473	We have hundreds of years of industrial experience and history behind us, which it's important to build up, and also to contribute to the new hundred years. The industry has actually settled on the mountains, inside the fjords, inside the country and the cities, so it's like finding a lot of exciting solutions, and you create your niches and use the comparative advantages you have. Many of them operate in a global market, which offers opportunities, but which can also be quite demanding. It requires a lot of business actors themselves, employees' skills must match, but it also requires a lot of us as politicians. I noticed that Gunnar Gunnersen's rewriting of the story was presented here, where he said that nothing was done – or that nothing was done – by the red-green side in terms of active enterprise policy. Then I just have to remember that 350,000 new jobs were created while the red-greens crashed the country. So now we're in a situation where we have the highest unemployment rate in ten years, so I think maybe the humiliation rate should have been slightly adjusted. In 2013, the red-greens presented a big message entitled «Manyfold of winners». It was put in the drawer when the new government came into place. It was a big message for change and for new growth, and we took on not only the industries that had comparative advantage initially, such as energy, marine industries, marine environmental technologies and travel, but we built up under the ICT industry, and not least the health industry, which has been mentioned earlier here. It's incredibly important to keep that focus on the future. In order to present a new large-scale report, it is important to look at the general framework conditions for industry, but also to focus on an active industrial policy specifically aimed at individual industries, for some need more specific solutions. If the wealth tax was what solved everything, we should have seen a very large growth now, but the Ministry of Finance has problems providing evidence that this has created new growth now. So we also have to have patience to see the result of. So to the statement of the Vorskrittspartet Korsberg that the red-greens didn't do anything in the energy field. Then I remember the matter that we got over today early. As far as Statkraft is concerned, it was precisely the red-green ones that helped to facilitate the green certificates that were actually on the table, so that the situation of port expansion could be met offensively in the past. So here the representative might have slept a little bit per hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e490	I can't let this go with humility without returning it, because I just have to say that I am amazed that there is no humility towards the phenomenal framework conditions of the Norwegian economy in the international context of the eight years between 2005 and 2013. The oil prices went largely upward, except for a ‘dip’ down into the financial crisis, but we experienced a period when our trading relationship, measured by the Ministry of Finance statistics, evolved better than ever in Norwegian history – ever in Norwegian history! That's exactly what makes us want to have a great deal of humility about the transformation process we're about to undergo, unless we think that the oil price is going to rise again and evolve in the same way as before. This just led to the fact that most of the jobs created were in an oil-related context. Now we can't rely on that anymore. It's a completely different challenge this government is facing, than what you did then. So I'd like to return it by saying that I think it should also be a humility from the red-greens because you had phenomenal framework conditions internationally, and a humility towards leaving behind a challenge that this government has to face, which you really just helped to strengthen in its period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e495	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e509	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e516	First of all, I would like to thank you for your good cooperation in the Committee on this matter. It was in the children's song that we're different on the outside, but inside we're the same. That's probably a truth with modifications. We're actually different both on the outside and on the inside. We're all different, we're all unique, and medicine and treatment work – and can work – differently on us based on the genes we actually have. Personalised medicine is a term for a set of diagnostic methods aimed more at meeting individuals based on their genes, possibilities, than traditional medicine. Personalised medicine seeks treatment and prevention options adapted to the individual, and it is really very fantastic. The purpose of this treatment is to provide treatment that better matches the patient’s biology. Sew treatment, which can also prevent and cause fewer side effects for the individual. The regional health companies under the leadership of Health South-East were commissioned in the spring of 2013 to investigate exactly this. The report was finalised in 2014 and includes, inter alia: national strategy, through-screen studies for patients with rare diseases, wide-ranging through-screen study with a genetic package analysis and research — just to mention something. The committee recommends a step-by-step design of the offer, that it be first introduced in patient areas where the patient benefit is evident and then extended. The group focused on three things: Education and development of competences The establishment of a national anonymised database on genetic information Technology building, technology cooperation with national professional networks The introduction of broad-based genetic testing in healthcare raises at the same time significant legal and ethical issues. The results of such studies are sensitive and must be properly addressed so as to prevent illegal and unethical use of these data. Who, how and what information should healthcare professionals have access to, and to what information should the patient himself have access to? These are big and complex issues. Personalised medicine also provides an opportunity to assess the risk of disease before having clinical symptoms or signs as a patient. What will this refresher do with the quality of life of a human being who knows that one has genes that can develop, but who is not sure to develop, disease? At the same time, it allows patients to prevent and delay or prevent any disease development. We, as society and the health care community, have to cope with these difficult dilemmas, both legally, ethically and professionally. Then all this competence is central to personalised medical development, which the Christian People's Party is dedicated to succeeding, but with a good bottom that facilitates it. The Christian People's Party relies on the majority of the Committee, which indicates that the Health Directorate has already been entrusted with the task of developing a national strategy. The Christian People's Party is therefore now voting against the individual proposals because we believe this will come as part of the future strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e545	Personalised medicine, or precision medicine, is a term for a set of diagnostic methods that more than traditional medicine seeks to find treatment or prevention adapted to individual – mainly genetic – characteristics. The aim is to provide the individual with better and more precise treatment with fewer adverse reactions, based on the patient’s specific biological properties. The current Minister of Health and Health Jonas Gahr Støre of the Workers' Party gave regional health companies, under the direction of Health South-East, in this spring 2013 to investigate personalised medicine in healthcare. The initiative was launched by the government of Stoltenberg to develop a national and holistic strategic approach to personalised medicine. The report was finalised in 2014 and it is now essential that the government of Solberg and the Minister of Health follow up quickly with the necessary strategy and funding. The working party is aware that personalised medicine raises legal and ethical questions, just as previous medical advances have done, and in exactly the same way that future progress will. We have to navigate this waters wisely. At the same time, this is a water that can mean significant improvements for each patient. It's like really talking about the patient's healthcare in practice. It is also important to note the importance of looking at how different forms of personalised medicine can work in combination with each other or in combination with other treatments, such as: radiation or cell poison. Personalised medicine can provide great improvements in treatment. Targeting treatment through the appropriate type of treatment for each individual reduces the burden of mismedication and reduces the risk of adverse reactions for the patient. Furthermore, it is also an important element that this field, with its advantages, can contribute as a lever for increased value creation and national economic value creation in the field of health, just as health care21 and the long-term research and higher education plan have pointed out, and as we in the Workers' Party are serious about following up. Personalised medicine can, in the future, have a large place both in healthcare and in Norwegian business if we want to do so, and make a targeted contribution to that. The ministry is looking at a national strategy, which I see all political parties are supporting. But it is further with some amazement that I record that no parties other than the Workers' Party want to contribute to providing leadership for what this strategy must include, namely a commitment to education and development of competences, to the establishment of a national, de-identified database of genetic variations, the construction of technology, technology cooperation and national professional networks. Proposals for a financial plan for the investment should also be submitted. The working party acknowledges that in a construction and start-up phase, personalised medicine is in a clinical perspective so special, so demanding and so complex to work on that this should not be done in all hospitals throughout the country, but in those healthcare companies that have a good clinical genetics environment. There have been so many ambiguities in the request that we do not choose to present proposal No. Four in the case. Finally, we are pleased that the Socialist Left agrees with us in one thing: that personalised medicine and the need for equal access to easily accessible and up-to-date information on different clinical studies in Norway are related. The Labour Party is proud that we want to contribute to a forward-looking development of health care and further to a good basis for the Norwegian health industry and therefore promote the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e571	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e574	We want to create patients' health care, like Karianne O. Heavy was inside. We want to put the patient in the center, and strictly speaking, all treatment will be more personalised. So personalised medicine fits pretty well into our overall goal of healthcare. Personalised medicine aims to provide a better balance between the patient’s biology, diagnostics and treatment. More complete information on the individual patient will increase the likelihood of successful treatment, while reducing the risk of adverse reactions. In a sense, personal adaptation has always been an ideal in medicine, and there is no new concept. Nevertheless, there is a sense that there is a need for more personalisation and more targeting in medical treatment. Every day a number of patients are treated without one achieving the desired result. This means that many people receive treatment they do not benefit from and, in the worst case, treatment may cause serious side effects. The challenge today is that we are not able to separate those who want to enjoy a given treatment from those who will not achieve an effect, through some basic treatment regimes. Today’s diagnosis is based on a clinical history of symptoms and different functional tests, pathological evaluation and laboratory analyses of blood and tissue samples, as well as various imaging studies. This information may be insufficient, and we need to know even more about the individual patient in order to carry out the fine classification necessary for a more tailor-made treatment. Personalised medicine sees different types of patient information in the context in order to identify individual-specific factors relevant to disease and treatment. As a result, personalised medicine represents new treatment strategies, with medicinal products developed to work with the greatest possible precision, in the right quantity and with the greatest possible effect. The development of new targeted medicinal products that block effects or correct specific defects and deficiencies at a molecular level has been particularly rapid in the last ten years and new medicinal products with that type of characteristics are still being registered. In this case, the Workers' Party is promoting proposals to bet on personalised medicine and has now made three proposals to give direction to this. However, this is a work that is already well under way. The report of the national survey, carried out by the regional health establishments, shows that it is appropriate to continue the work on personalised medicine in Norway. The Ministry of Health has started such work on a strategy for this very thing, and we in the Right are behind the leadership that the Ministry has given for the work on the strategy and action plan. To the right, there is a need to increase the number of clinical studies and also Norwegian patients’ access to trial treatment. The government has an offensive policy for more clinical research in Norway, which is evident and visible in the recent drug notification. The work on personalised medicine will also contribute to more clinical research and experimental treatment, thus supporting it under one of the objectives of the government platform. However, we believe that the introduction of personalised medicine raises a number of professional, ethical, practical and economic issues that speak to ensure that this needs to be carried out after careful investigation. In addition, we wonder about the urgency of setting up such a centre right in Oslo, and therefore it is gratifying that proposal No. 4 now is not being promoted. The work of the working group and the nature of the case show that personalised medicine is expected to play a major role in many areas of healthcare, and thus will include a large number of patients. It may mean that this competence needs to be found on almost equal terms in all health regions, and then an important question is whether this should be one centre, several centres or a network of centres. We have to get back to that when the strategy is done. The Directorate for Health has been entrusted with the task of developing a national strategy for personalised medical care. The time limit shall be before the end of the year. The government has announced measures that can contribute to a well-prepared implementation of personalised medicine in healthcare. We will closely monitor the development of this strategy and the introduction of personalised medicine. We support most of the intentions of the Labour Party proposals, but we do not consider it necessary to carry out the work or to correct the guidelines that the government has already given for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e591	First, I want to say that it is very good that the Labour Party makes this proposal, because personalised medicine is not an area of medicine that we have debated often. As you can see, it's an important suggestion. Personalised medicine represents the Norwegian health service at its best and is a very important field of action. One can set safer diagnosis and surer prognosis, and one can tailor the treatment. This will be a service that many people can use in the future as it is developed. The cause is that a lot of good work is done, and there is a lot of positive work in the health care system in this area. More have shown that regional health professionals under the leadership of Health South-East in the spring of 2013 were tasked with providing personalised medical services in the healthcare sector. This report was completed in 2014 and contains a number of recommendations and proposed leaders to implement personalised medical care in the healthcare service. Then the Directorate of Health has been given the task of developing such a national strategy. In this case, I think the Council of State is doing well for how the government and the department intend to follow up on this matter. It is now waiting for the Directorate to develop the national strategy from among others. in the report recommended by the professional community. Then one gets back to the political follow-up, but the Central Party and I trust the processes that are in progress and don't see it as necessary to vote for the Labour Party's proposals in this matter, even though, of course, we share the intentions behind it. I have a comment and would like to point out what has been made on proposal No. Four, which fortunately has now been drawn by the Labour Party. I would have advised the Labour Party to draw it if they hadn't done it by themselves, so it was positive. Here's something insecure about the last game. It's hard for us to see how we're going to deal with it in a way, but in the setting we've shown to the health care professionals' report. The printed version states that one of the measures recommended is the establishment of a national centre of expertise for personalised medicine. What is claimed by those in the group is that this was not their recommendation. The recommendation was that a national network of regional competence centres for personalised medicine should be established. The argument that one in this area does not need a national competence centre, but a national network of regional competence centres, is that one expects personalised medicine to be of great importance to many areas of health services and thus also to include very many patients, so that this competence must be found on almost equal terms in all health regions. I thought that advice was very wise and very understandable, and I hope that the Council of State will sort this out, so that the Health Directorate now, when it comes to developing the national strategy, gets what was the real recommendation from the professional community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e600	I would first like to thank the Labour Party for the invitation to debate this matter in Stortinget. For the left, we are also not in a hurry to adopt individual proposals now. There is a great deal of work going on among many actors on the relatively large, and a little unknown, subject area we are facing here. There is no doubt that there can be great opportunities for patients here, and it is nice to be a health politician and to be part of – and gain insight – the task of making priorities in such a subject area. At the same time, it also poses major challenges for us as politicians; there will be tough priorities ahead of us in the next few years. As you can see, this debate, also here, enters into debates on some important big messages and debates that we are going to have next year on priorities, on the notification of the medicinal product we are about to have, and so on in the field of biotechnology, which is coming soon. Several have dealt with the many aspects that this is all about, including: the implementation of health services, organisation, with which several have been involved. I note that one of the measures that this sample, under the auspices of Health South-East, points to, is the establishment of an online platform to disseminate knowledge about this, as one of the first measures, and not just to establish something physically one or more places. Indeed, education and competence are an important part of this field and, as many have pointed out, there are great opportunities for research and development, and in the wake of the opportunities also linked to industry. For the left side, we would point out that it is important to focus on patients and bring the users along the way. It is also important to include in the debate that there are different patient groups we are facing and that they have larger and smaller organisations in their backs. Cancer association is a big player, who has muscles to help patients and to participate very actively. Cystic fibrosis patients are an example of a patient group that has very small resources, and to which it is also important to listen, and which is perhaps one of those groups that can first benefit from that type of medicine. As elected politicians, it's important, we think, to bring that perspective to the square, so that even those patient groups that don't necessarily have the strongest numbers in their back are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e613	I share the opinion of the representatives that there is a need for a national strategic approach to personalised medical care. And personalised medicine in this context is about medicine that is adapted to the individual's body, or the individual's disease. Today is the ‘What Is Important for You’ day. It's another kind of personalised medicine that's much simpler in its form, but it doesn't want to be less sophisticated to follow up. That's why I also have ‘What is important to you’ buttons on me today, and many people who work in health care have it – just to ask the simple, but still the basic question: What is important to you? That's exactly what represents the breadth of the patient's healthcare. The report of the national investigation carried out by regional health enterprises in 2014 provides a good basis for an approach to personalised medicine. The government will follow up the work being done and emphasise the importance of seeing personalised medicine in a wider context. I will briefly mention how the government is dealing with the issues raised in the proposal. The Directorate for Health has been entrusted with the task of developing a national strategy for personalised medical care, with a deadline of 31 December this year. The strategy shall be for healthcare and shall support the development and implementation of personalised medicine. The report of the national investigation and other relevant information shall form the basis for the work. The strategy shall identify a vision for personalised medicine in Norway and include an action plan for personalised medical care. The plan shall mention inclusion in the service, communication, patient guidance, competence and education, technology and organisation, collection and handling and use of data and clinical research. It shall also address socio-economic aspects of personalised medicine, including prioritisation. The work shall be carried out as an open process involving relevant stakeholders. Once the national strategy is completed, the government will consider proposals for measures and appropriations that can contribute to a well-prepared introduction of personalised medicine into healthcare. The national strategy will be seen in the context of the forthcoming flagship Communication on Priorities and the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. Let me briefly comment on the concerns of the proposers that the hospital economy in 2015 will make it difficult to follow up the work on personalised medicine. This government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment in our first two budgets, compared to what the red-greens achieved through their eight. Compared to the high expectations that we had related to this area, we're worth 750 million. kr from the target per year, but this must be seen in the light of an actual total budget of over 130 billion. kr, which represents a large growth compared to previous years. The government's aim is to increase the scope of clinical studies in all treatment methods and to allow several patients to participate in trial treatment through clinical studies. In order for more patients to have such an opportunity, information on the planned or ongoing clinical studies must be readily available. This is what we're doing. The Health Directorate and regional health companies cooperate on a solution for patient-oriented information on clinical studies, via the portal healthnorge.no. The mission is in line with the recommendations of the Health Care21 strategy, which calls for patient-oriented information on clinical studies. Through this new solution, which is planned to be launched into the autumn, patients, relatives and health professionals can be able to adapt to information about the studies. They can also use the page to contact the professional community for an assessment of participation in the study. The solution will also assist fixed doctors, clinicians and researchers in recruiting patients for clinical trials. The potential of personalised medicine has led to increased attention and optimism, nationally and internationally. Personalisation in diagnostics and treatment is a positive development that will benefit patients, and the effort will require thorough preparation in everything from education and competence to technology, platforms, organisation and, in particular, legal and ethical aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e645	Thank you very much to the Council of State for a good response to the draft representative. There seems to be quite a broad consensus in this room about personalised medicine and the bet on it. It is reassuring to hear the plans of the Council of State for the strategy and what it should contain. I must then follow up on the fact that a commitment to this strategy may also require a financing plan, which the Labour Party has been involved in its proposal. Can the Council of State either confirm or demand that the strategy also be followed up by a funding plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e650	First of all, we have to look at the recommendations of the strategy, and then we have to come back to the way in which it is to be financed. Most of what is happening as part of the treatment in the specialist healthcare service, we finance through the allocations to the health region, and much of the same applies to clinical research.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e655	Several environments, including the pharmaceutical industry, pointed out in the hearing on the matter that personalised medicine is an area in which we in Norway have a great advantage in investing in the development of the health industry. Does the Council agree that personalised medicine can serve as a basis for the development of the Norwegian health industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e660	I absolutely agree with that. Norway and the Nordic countries have special conditions to be able to participate in this development in several areas. One of our great advantages is, among other things, the medical quality records that we have in the Nordic region. It is also desirable on the part of Norway that we develop stronger Nordic cooperation in this area, precisely in order to obtain a larger patient base overall. We also today have research projects in personalised medicine that receive support from the Research Council. Among other things, there is a project at the OYS to contribute to a national diagnostic service for cancer patients. In Bergen, there is a project where they look in the microenvironment in cancer tumors after biomarkers to help doctors choose the right treatment for cancer, and another project at the University of Oslo where a look at what challenges through data provide ICT technology and privacy. So here it's already being researched.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e667	Since the Council of State itself was concerned with the financial situation of the hospitals in its contribution, I would like to remind the Council of State that his party promised at least 12 billion before the 2013 election campaign. SEK to hospitals in the course of four years. We know that for the current year, 2 billion came. kr more. You have to have 3 billion. kr per year on average in order to meet the 12 billion pledge. kr. If the Council of State confirms that there will be at least 3 billion. Are you going to the hospitals on the state budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e672	The representative knows that I can't say anything about what's going on in the government budget for next year. What I can say about, is what we've done so far. Firstly, we added to a higher rate of growth in patient treatment in 2014 than the former government had added to its budget, and we also raised a high level of growth in 2015. In relation to the goal on which the Right went to the election, with a growth of 12 billion. NOK, we're now on average at 750 million. kr behind it, and it must be seen in the context of a budget of more than 130 billion. kr, where through our two budgets we have committed to a higher growth in patient treatment than the red-green government has been able to achieve over eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e677	There are many proposals for the creation of a national centre of competence, and, as I mentioned from the Chair, the Committee has been made aware that when it comes to the recommendations of the report of the national distribution which has been on health professionals, it is part of the group, which is not familiar with them, and claims that one has not recommended a national centre of competence but a regional centre of competence. I do not expect the Council of State to respond specifically, but I would like to have a comment from the Council of State, because I think it is very special to get such feedback – we have to be able to trust that what is a professional recommendation is a professional recommendation. And have the Councils made any comments about the need for a national centre of competence, or is this to be laid down regionally?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e684	Firstly, I am pleased that the Labour Party is not promoting that proposal today, so that one here can also get a recommendation from the follow-up work that is taking place in the Directorate. With regard to the report of the national investigation carried out by the regional health establishments, it proposes three possible options for the organisation of gene sequencing. It is either an international service provider, a national centre or a centre in each health region. The recommendation states: ‘Diagnostic data should, as a general rule, be generated regionally through user-friendly, flexible technology platforms to support efficient logistics and regional competence. For the further development of diagnostic services, networks of competences for bioinformatics, interpretation and data analysis should be established.’;» But this is a question that we must then come back to – what is the most appropriate way to organise this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e694	Thanks for the answer, but the question was that in the information we have received, it is claimed that there has been an actual error in the recommendations of the group from each other, until the report has come into print, and that we of those we have been contacted by – first in connection with this case – were made aware that there is a concrete proposal that a national competence centre should be established. What the Council of State read out is probably also – I guess, I don't have it in front of me – but we've been aware that it's a significant change. I would like to have a comment: if there is now a mistake that has occurred, will the Council of State go in and make sure that this is clarified?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e699	I assume that the directorate will find out and get an explanation of that. But as I see it, one there has referred to three possible alternative organisations in setting up national centres, or having it in each region or relying on an international environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e704	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e733	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes to each group of parties and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e742	I would first like to thank the committee. We have had eleven proposals for measures from the Left to the Left and 14 proposals from the Socialist Left. The Committee has also dealt with a similar issue in the past, so in this very area we are beginning to be well educated. That's good, it's an important field. At the same time, some new things have emerged. As the case rapporteur, I want to spend time, first and foremost, highlighting what we agree on – and repeating some of what is the main challenge in the field of drugs. Prevention of drug dependence is an important political task. The main effort must be directed towards the local government sector in the future, we agree on that. This applies to recordings of the escalating plan on the ground, which the government is now working on. The rehabilitation part of the LAR needs to be strengthened. The provision of health and services to Ruspacers is perceived as fragmented, with many instances, unbridled lines of responsibility and lack of an overview of the quality of the measures. Ruspacents will often need close follow-up and continuity in several areas of life, such as lack of social networks and relationships, weak economy, debt problems, poor or missing bobble, bottling and failing somatic and mental health. So to that that's a broad consensus. There is a broad majority in the Committee to make the drug programme of judicial review permanent and to extend it to several cities. This has been a testing scheme in Oslo and Bergen since 2006. SIRUS evaluated the measures and obtained very good results, including in an international context – a degree of completion of 34 pst, against normally 20-30 pst. for equivalent measures. There is evidence that close follow-up and control by the judiciary is effective and that Norway has the opportunity to become a leading country in alternative criminal responses to drug crimes. There is also a broad consensus to ask the government to undertake a compilation of the use and experience of the drug programme with judicial control, from drug contacts in municipalities and in the police, and the use of conflict advice in the provision of care to develop treatment-oriented contracts as an alternative to traditional care for drug users. The ND programme may not be used for persons under the age of authority. I would therefore like to highlight the scheme of youth contracts, which is a good, preventive measure aimed at young people under 18 years of age, also in view of the principle of early action. This offer turns out – at least from the input we received at the hearing – to vary across the country. It is important to have consistent reporting on how this is followed up and how we can further develop the scheme. The Committee also asks the government to look at the offers to the most deprived drug addicts, including further developing lowthreshold drug treatment services. The Left Party and the Labour Party differ from the rest of the parties by going in to allow heroin-assisted treatment attempts for the very heaviest users who have not benefited from other drug treatments. We also ask the government to amend the IDU regulation to allow different routes of administration than injecting and drugs other than heroin. Similar proposals by the Socialist Left Party are also supported by the Workers' Party. When it comes to allowing heroin-assisted treatment trials, we know that there is a great deal of professional disagreement. For the Workers' Party, it is a matter of fundamental principles. It is not for politicians to override the medical and professional environments when they believe that heroin-assisted treatment can be an opportunity to get the most vulnerable drug addicts — those who have tried everything and are so reduced that they cannot tolerate other medical treatments — gradually during health treatment. There are no other patient groups you would have stopped testing for, when we know how vulnerable their health status is, and when it's so critical. For the Workers' Party, it is about treating paper spacers and other patients equally. We have to try everything in good medical practice to get as many drug addicts as possible during proper medical treatment. In Bergen it was also referred to the trial and execution in other major cities that have had open Russian scenes. The feedback they have received is that it is only when you can get 80 pst. by those who use the open Russian scene, during medical treatment, that one can also crack the open Russian scene. This is primarily – I would like to clarify – about individuals, but also about a social perspective. With this, I am promoting the proposals that the Labour Party, together with other parties, has in the two positions on matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e765	The representative Ruth Grung has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e768	The right agrees that there is a need for a lift in the drugs field, which is clearly stated by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. This government has raised those with drug challenges and is strongly committed to action to help this group. Several of the proposed measures in the proposal for a representative are already well under way by the government, and it is a pleasure that the whole of the Grand Duchy is concerned about improving the situation of those who are most struggling with drug problems. In fact, the size is so concerned with the problem that the same week two different representative proposals were put forward on the subject, which we are now debating together. The right supports the Left’s proposal to establish a permanent system of judicial drug programmes and, in addition, to extend its implementation to other cities. We believe that the programme can be made permanent in Bergen and Oslo and extended to cities with the most convicted drug offenders and large user settings. In addition, we believe that it should be considered whether to launch OPS follow-up testing in a district region with the assessment and adaptation of different Rusk contracts in view of both job and educational rehabilitation as a criminal response, preferably with social entrepreneurship as a model. In the right, there is room for further development of measures and methods in response to less serious drug-related offences, and, in our view, ensuring adapted assistance and rehabilitation rather than punishment within today’s legal system will be a good tool. We believe that changes to the rules on the route of administration and the substances that can be consumed in injection rooms are measures that only take a small group and do not help to solve the major challenges in the field. In addition, we will point out that injection rooms have as their primary task the prevention of overdoses. Overdose is not a particularly high risk of smoking heroin, so it is not logical that it should be part of the injection room system. We believe that the right-wing fraction best helps the most auxiliary opiate addicts with a low-threshold LAR offer. The proposal on heroin-assisted treatment is considered to be a costly and comprehensive measure that does not respond to the challenges it intends to address. Most of the hearing bodies were sceptical about the proposal for heroin-assisted treatment. We believe that this could potentially distort the necessary measures, such as: a better focus on post-protection. In addition, it is difficult to delineate heroin-assisted treatment to a specific target group. If the heroin treatment criterion is to be that the patient does not succeed in LAR, it can easily become a question of qualifying by failing. In addition, heroin-assisted treatment is intended to reach the very weakest, while these hardly are able to follow such a strict regime as it has been set up. Heroin has a significantly shorter half-life than methadone and must therefore be administered three times a day, as opposed to once daily methadone. Thus, the right does not support the proposal to introduce heroin-assisted treatment. As was said in the Committee's hearing on this matter: Heroinazist treatment is a dead end. If a judgement is to be made according to the response in the hearing, the proposal was also made on a stone's floor. By this week, the RIO has stated to the NRK that the proposal for heroin-assisted treatment is a symbolic policy. In the right, it is important to ensure good housing and rehabilitation services for those with drug problems. It is therefore appropriate to focus the main effort in the ramp-up plan on the municipal sector. In the right, there is no basis for reducing a sample to review and document the impact of current drug policies. The prohibition of drugs is in itself one of the most important instruments in current drug policy. We would point out that discontinuing all aspects of drug addiction treatment is problematic. SV did not explain in its representative’s proposal whether this should cover all drugs or only drugs. Furthermore, this will raise fundamental questions about other excesses if only drug-related diagnoses are opened up to exclude excesses. It is generally important to have access to low-proportional healthcare and to mechanisms to capture patients with poor payability. The agreement between the cooperation parties states that the government should strengthen the offer of drug users through, among other things. the provision of a new escalating plan for the drug field. We should therefore not conclude in all the proposals submitted at this stage. The proposals should be discussed and seen in the context of the work on a new escalation plan for the drug field. The majority will have the opportunity to discuss the drugs field more comprehensively when the government promotes it. We want to create patients' health care. We want to move those who have been sitting at the bottom of the table for too long, people who have a drug problem, further up. The right looks forward to a further debate on Norwegian drug policy, particularly in the context of the treatment of the escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e791	Rusty care has engaged me since my youth, and I have been despaired and sorry for my lack of commitment and progress, both at the municipal level and at the state level. And I can't help not mentioning that I think the commitment under red-green rule was very lame – no bet, no new concrete measures that gave this field a boost. After the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left promised to lift this field, there has been an increase in the involvement of all the political parties – and that is very good. At the same time, work on an escalation plan started from day one for this government. Several dialogue meetings with organisations, users and relatives have been conducted, as well as a dedicated website where anyone can come up with their concerns and suggestions for improvement. I therefore find it difficult to deal with new individual proposals in the middle of this process. So now that the Progress Party is voting against most of the proposals, it is not necessarily because we are opposed to the proposals, but simply in respect of all those who are in daily troubles and with whom we have invited to participate in the design of the future care of the russian, so that we can see the whole in a better way. I am therefore not particularly concerned with any of the proposals. However, I would like to comment on the distribution of heroin in particular. Over the years, I have met many former heroinists who have been considered unresponsive to treatment. They are simply stated by the health service. Nevertheless, these are drug-free today. I, and several of you, met several of them at the Russian Conference which the party leaders of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left arranged a short time ago. These are people who today are in full-time work and live good lives. They themselves say that they would never have been drug-free today if they had been able to choose free heroin. So I ask myself, who's going to decide that a person can't use a treatment? Who's going to decide that getting heroin is the only thing that benefits you? In an annotation form, the Arbeiderpartiet and SV write that they note that there is a small group of people who do not have the effect of LAR medicines. At the same time, they recognise that the R-in LAR is far too lacking. So then I ask again: how does the Workers' Party and SV know that some people do not have the effect of the LAR medicine, when they never got a chance to succeed due to lack of follow-up, housing, etc.? The Health and Welfare Committee travelled to Switzerland in the previous period and then learned about their distribution of heroin. What I learned there was that heroin as a medicine doesn't work, but that it's the whole service and the close follow-up that works. This is what I and the Progress Party have been working for every year, and for which we want to respond in the government's escalating plan for drugs. I also want to ask a question to the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre about their proposals on drug contracts and youth contracts – really just out of curiosity. This is a proposal that I made in this Chamber when these parties were put in government. Then they voted against and had a number of arguments as to why it was wrong to use such contracts. What has happened since the government change, which means that this is still good and correct? In any case, it is gratifying that more and more municipalities have started this work, and they refer to good results. In conclusion, I am pleased that a majority agree that treatment, assistance and follow-up are a better way of following drug addicts than punishment in very many cases. Drug law enforcement has proved to be very right for many, and a majority of the committee wants more of this. I attend the big debate when the government's escalation plan is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e817	The Christian People's Party wants offensive care, where people get faster help and a variety of treatments. And the Christian People's Party is incredibly happy that there is going to be a complete plan of intoxication. It's hard to get drunk. There are an incredible number of people who lose their motivation to become drug free while they are waiting for treatment. And many people know that the offers are not related – detoxification, treatment, aftercare, rehabilitation. During the dialogue meeting a couple of weeks ago on the forthcoming drug notification, many organisations in the drug field were working on this which called for drug users to be offered without drug treatment. The Prime Minister pointed out the importance of LAR treatment on that day, but also pointed out that the pendulum might have turned a little too much towards drug treatment alone. When we discussed document 8:102 S for 2013–2014 in the Health and Care Committee, which was the proposal of the Central Party to evaluate the LAR scheme, the background and intention of LAR was that when patients had tried everything and had not succeeded, the LAR offer would be what they were to receive. So we experience that a lot of ruspacers say that's the opposite of what was meant to happen to LAR. To get into the LAR, one would have tried everything, the entrance ladder would be high and it would be easy to get out. Many people now experience the opposite: it's easy to get into the LAR and terribly hard to get out. We must maintain the belief that the individual can benefit from treatment, that the individual can actually have a goal of becoming drug-free and facilitating treatment provision that makes it possible. The proposals to allow heroin-based treatment are defended by the fact that there is a harm-reduction measure to help the heaviest users – I am very concerned about them. In 2011, the National Health Service Knowledge Centre underlined that heroin-based treatment is a major non-response, where the indications have just been that it should be for patients with low network, poor health and low social function. So the research really says that this is not the way to go. The Christian People's Party thinks that we're going to allow heroin-based treatment for a few, we think it's going to be the same thing as the idea of LAR, that the entrance should be high, but we think it'll put more into a everyday life where this becomes a load and a load. The Christian People's Party is concerned that it's going to be the same thing as under the LAR, that many people are coming in and that it's hard to get out. The Christian People's Party believes that resources should be used to facilitate individualised treatment. It is important for measures that meet heavy drug users where they are, including those who do not want treatment, that we actually see the individual, and that we facilitate relief measures, lowthreshold services and not least health care and housing services. As many people have it today, it's actually unworthy, and we can't meet them in any way. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals of the Labour Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e836	We have to start with some undeniable facts about the situation of drug addicts in Norway. Norway is high in the number of overdoses in Europe. We still have large, open Russian scenes that many countries in Europe have closed. Since the introduction of medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR, at the end of the 1990s, the number of LAR patients now exceeds 7 000. Keep growing, we'll pass 10,000 in just a few years. There is a massive effort both to prevent so many from being recruited for abuse and addiction and to provide a more human and health-related treatment to those who are addicted and not sufficiently motivated for detoxification, also called harm reduction. Harm reduction is well worth stopping a little bit by. Of course, it refers to harm reduction for individuals, but perhaps a little too much also to harm reduction for society. For us politicians, the debate in Norway, I would say, has been a little too busy with harm reduction for the community part and a little too little of the individual, a little too busy with punishment and compensation as a tool for harm reduction. Experience in recent years from other countries such as Portugal and France suggests that treatment and assistance at the lowest possible level is effective. We politicians must have a look at the whole thing. These include prevention, harm reduction, the management of open-air Russians and the rehabilitation of patients. On behalf of the Left, I am pleased that we now appear to be moving into a new era of Norwegian drug policy and the debate on it — away from criminal prosecution and over to decriminalisation and treatment to a greater extent and as early as possible. The left is very pleased that the government parties in their government statement have such a clear focus on intoxication. There are great ambitions to make it better for the individual. For the left, we also have great ambitions, and we see that increased appropriations have been made, and that there is now a willingness to take action. Drug law enforcement programmes were introduced in time by Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum of the Cooperative Government. It was anchored in the conflict councils, and it has now been shown in the evaluation that it is a success. So we're very happy that it's being done permanently, and that it's being extended to several cities. In the case of drug contracts, they were used even earlier than the judicial programme. Unfortunately, the rust contracts have not been systematically evaluated, and it is time for it to be done. In the setting of Document 8:64 S, we say that we should combine the experience of the judicial programme, the arms contracts and the use of the conflict council, because it is the conflict councils that have made their experience of contract forms without having been in the court programme of the two major cities. It is also a small saying to the Left that we point out that it is possible to use social entrepreneurship to a greater extent and to involve more actors to look at contract forms and the way in which they work in order to agree with the individual what type of treatment and rehabilitation will work. We now have a good experience of working on that. It can happen at different levels, and it is clear that you must not carry a large number of judges and a heavy drug addiction in your luggage. The sooner we get in, the better it is. But when it comes to social entrepreneurship, it can't just be up to new actors to develop it. Also, as the public sector, we need to adapt and be open to someone developing methods that are more effective and better for us in sum, and that someone is thus doing a job for us. Another part of this to which there has not been so much focus is a 24 hour treatment guarantee or a more ‘sleepless transition’, to which the government calls it in its government statement. It's important. We have called it a rusakutt and a 24 hour treatment guarantee. That transition is important, and it is also very important in post-protection. In this context, the provision of housing is very central and therefore also the role of municipalities. One of the major efforts in the future is that we need to ensure better back-up protection, where there will be a more comprehensive offer in terms of housing, education and employment opportunities for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e851	It is good that these two cases are dealt with together, because there is quite a coincidence between the SV's proposal and the Left's position. I am also pleased that the Labour Party has supported so many proposals. The major challenges of Norwegian drug policy are many, and could have been worth a much broader debate than what we get here: How are we going to get Norway away from the questionable top of overdose statistics in Europe? How are we supposed to strengthen rehabilitation? And how do we improve the diversity of treatment provision? The SV has put forward a proposal for a new course in many areas involving innovation for our own part, and a proposal for a new direction for Norwegian drug policy. First, let me say that the most important thing is what we often discuss at least: the need for more resources, the need for better back-up protection and – one of the proposals that I think we are looking at today alone – the need for housing with follow-up as an integral part of the offer to drug addicts who have been treated. We have seen over several years that punishment does not act as an instrument in drug policy. We are faced with health and social policy issues, not justice policy. Fines and prisons have failed as a method of getting drug addicts away from the drug scene. SV is not a supporter of decriminalisation, but we are a supporter of decriminalisation, and many of the proposals that we are promoting in the Storting today are about it. I think it is very positive that the Storting is now gathering to make the drug programme permanent with judicial control. We would want us to do it nationwide and not just permanently in the two largest cities, but I'm glad that the majority also wants to look at enlargement. We also believe that there is a need for a wider review of criminal responses. It is pointless that the use and possession of user doses should lead to prisons and fines. Instead, it should lead to responses that aim to improve health and rehabilitation. One of the major debates is about something that will never be more than a marginal part of the treatment provision for heavy drug addicts in Norway, namely heroin-assisted treatment. It's still a fundamental question. We cannot accept that the political and moral views of politicians should oversee medical evaluations of the type of drugs and drugs to be used. I can't imagine any other field within the health service where the majority in this room would accept it. When Health Bergen has asked to use heroin-assisted treatment and to try it out, it is because new research shows that until now the Storting has taken its no into account is wrong. The results of these experiments in Denmark have been good. New British research shows that this can have a much more positive socio-economic side than what we have believed so far. I react to the fact that the majority still refuses to think again and still insists on a political review of medical/professional assessments. But I'm glad the Workers' Party has turned around and now it's with us. The same applies to the question of smoking heroin in user rooms/spray rooms. It is incredible that it has been invested in a smoking room at the spraying room in Oslo, but government council Bent Höie refuses to use it. It is an expression of a moral review, in my view, of what should have been a pragmatic policy to prevent overdose deaths and create dignity and security for addicts. We should do everything we could to try out new methods to get away from the overdose. Then I think it is very strange to hear the very principle of the right side, but little practical reasons for refusing to use the smoking room in the municipality of Oslo. I would like to put forward those proposals in the Innst. 279 S as SV is on its own. They are about a new, more pragmatic drug policy, because we think it will work better. In addition, if the President allows it, I will finally give a brief explanation of vote and announce some secondary votes. SV wants to vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party and the Left of the Inn. 278 S. It is proposals that go in the same direction as those we have promoted, but not as far. Then we also want to vote secondary for Roman Numeral Decisions I, II and III in the same setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e874	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e877	The debate we have today is both uplifting and discouraging. It's uplifting because the discussion about how we treat drug addicts is on the move. There are good suggestions on the table from SV, Left, Workers’ Party and the Centre on harm reduction measures, on measures that shift focus from punishment to treatment and psychosocial follow-up, measures that will make treatment provision more flexible, and measures to provide more alburom to municipalities working with users. But at the same time, I would like to thank the government for providing the municipalities with more funds for important work in the care of drug users and for focusing on the issues of care in their general policy. However, the debate is also discouraging, because a majority in the United Kingdom does not agree with a recognition of which there is a great deal of professional agreement, namely that Norwegian drug policy does not function in a very close enough way. The green starting point of the drug policy is respect for the individual's situation and needs, and we vote in favour of the minority proposals. They are good and sufficiently thought out for this to take us a step further, and they are in line with professional recommendations. The objection to harm-reduction measures is that they can stand in the way of an overall objective of total drug-freedom. But the result is that those who can't live up to this idea of total insomnia, too often fall outside. Consumers are denied measures that provide mastery and quality of life while they continue to use drugs, and many die young people. Every life counts, including in drug policy. It is precisely the objective of harm reduction that supports the proposals of the Left and Workers' Party to allow heroin-assisted treatment and to allow different routes of administration than injecting and also drugs other than heroin. The assessment should be carried out on a case-by-case basis by qualified health professionals. The choice of injection rooms by users is better than choosing parks and streets, and we therefore support the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV to extend the provision of injection rooms. Today, punishment is the primary instrument in the fight against harmful drugs. For us in the Greens, this is a mystery. Punishment is defined as an evil committed in order to make it feel like an evil, and it is a completely wrong approach to all forms of addiction. The zero vision for drug dependence, which has been so leading in Norwegian drug policy, has not worked for the heaviest users, and we have to stop doing the best for the good enemy. We need a system that allows experienced, self-thinking health professionals to see the individual and build people up to work to make the best choices for themselves. We have to get used to the idea that many of these people need follow-up over many years. That is why the Greens support the SV’s proposals on sustainable offers and a permanent follow-up from the municipal health service. But it is also important that this follow-up does not end until the user is mature for it. In 2011, Norway reported 262 overdose deaths. Portugal had 29. An important difference between Norway and Portugal is that Portugal left the criminal regime on 1 July 2001. In the past, they had major problems with drug dependence, but now consumption is falling too nearly all drugs, including among young people. Of course, it is not all that has been done in Portugal, which is transferable to Norway, but the experience is so good that it should get us in Norway to open our eyes and ears a lot. In an area where Norway has obviously not found the best solutions, it is vital that we now promote measures that can reduce the unacceptable high overdose deaths, measures that give people dignity and that can reduce the burden on drugs both them and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e893	Today we are discussing two proposals, from the SV and the Left, on better care. First of all, I have to admit that I thought it was a little special when such proposals came about just after the same parties had voted down many of the proposals of the Center Party in the case based on Document 8:102 S for 2013–2014, to ask the government to promote measures that ensure quality in supply and reduce the number of overdose deaths with LAR medicine, i.e. a review of the LAR scheme. I record that when it comes to drug use, the batches run a little shadow boxing, and I actually think that's a little stupid for the cause. Now we're going to have a escalating plan for the drug field, which the Center Party thinks there's a great need. We've been critical of not simultaneously adding mental health to that escalation plan, for this is very much on the wane. We have suggestions for that, and I hope that the government party can meet us. There are several proposals in this matter that I do not think are new policies, but in fact are well anchored in the Storting through the Drug Message, Report. Number 30 for 2011–2012. However, it is important to point this out, and that one has a click on it from the Storing side, as these are measures in different areas that it is important for governments to follow up. I would like to make some comments on what may be new in the proposal, and that relates specifically to heroin-assisted treatment. This is where the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have turned since 2012, when our government did not go in to open up for trial. So one might say that it's happened a lot new in two years, but I don't mean it. It is not that in this area only a policy is involved and says that a person should not allow or open up for a type of drug treatment. To argue the opposite: I can't see one area in the medicine where one should allow one region to go out and try out a new medicine if there's no professional consensus about it in Norway. In this field, there has been no professional consensus. The last consensus conference we had recommended the opposite – not to open up for trials. And it's not that a community of professionals in Norway requires this to be allowed to offer. No, the professional environment is shared – there are strong professional environments for which there are strong trade unions that are opposed. I think we should always discuss whether heroin can be a drug in drug treatment, but then one has to do it in a good way, and the natural thing would be to have a new consensus conference where one gathers all the national and international new studies, so one got a proper anchoring of it. That's the way forward, and there's something that I think can be appreciated when the withdrawal plan comes, but we shouldn't go for suggestions on this from the Left and the SV today. So the center party won't support that proposal. The drugs programme agrees with the entire committee. It was also mentioned in the drug report, so that's good. Two years of free treatment options have been produced as the most important procedure, but in the currently sent regulation, non-free treatment options should apply to severe somatic diseases, so a large group is deprived of the possibility that the government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left described as the new bet. Nor does it apply to non-daily treatment. When it comes to property, the Centre Party and the Labour Party have their own proposal – we also need to assess this when it comes to psychiatric patients, not just rubrics. It's also mentioned in the Norheim Selection settings that we need to look at. Then I'll have no time but to make suggestions on matters, and I'll greet from the Christian People's Party and say that in the Inner East. 278 are also members of the Christian People's Party on I and II. We're all in. Int. 279 submits its own proposal to the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e914	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e917	There is a need for a lift in the drug field. This is also the background to the fact that, in cooperation with the Left and the Christian People's Party, the government parties have expressed clear ambitions for a renewed commitment through a new escalation plan. We have achieved a lot, but there are obviously major challenges in the field of drugs that require specific efforts. Among other things, drug problems are discovered too late, and many experience one too often or little organized service provision. In addition, the way back to society can be demanding, and many depend on everyday life being filled with meaningful content and an orderly housing situation — there is a lack of it today. Representatives have proposed a number of good measures consistent with the intention of creating a new escalation plan, for example: measures to ensure good housing and rehabilitation. This is important in order to be able to take up education, to form a family or to take care of the family you have, to be at work and to take care of your health. The dwelling is also the framework for social life and gives access to a community and a community. I would also like to mention that in 2013, health regions were given the task of establishing user-controlled sites in multidisciplinary specialised treatment. Such sites are now established in all health regions. The government believes that it is important to develop and increase the use of alternative criminal responses that can help people with drug problems to have a life without drugs and crime. We have seen the positive results of the drug trial project with judicial control, and we have therefore continued this project. I come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when it comes to extending the scheme. The new Law on Conflict Council entered into force on 1 July 2014 and two new forms of criminal reaction aimed at young people started. We have thus received two new tools – youth follow-up and youth punishment – in the fight against juvenile crime. And the police continue to conclude youth contracts with young people who are taken for the first time into use or possession of drugs. These are important responses in order to get in early and stop a course of drug addiction and more crime. Representatives have also made several proposals for substitution treatment, ensuring access to lowthreshold substitution treatment in all parts of the country and strengthening the rehabilitation element of the LAR. Some measures have been taken. Among other things, current guidelines allow doctors to start substitution treatment outside the LAR in cooperation between municipal and specialist health services. Furthermore, all health regions have established lowthreshold LARs for the most help-intensive group of opiate addicts. This type of action strengthens the follow-up of patients in the LAR, and is an important theme in the drug strategy. We are committed to strengthening the overall supply of people with drug problems and not introducing measures that only take a small group. I believe this is important and clear in our commitment to the drug field. We do not want any attempt at heroin-assisted treatment, nor do we want to change the rules on the route of administration and the substances that can be taken into injection rooms, as both representatives suggest. I believe that this type of action takes a small group and does not help to solve the major challenges we face in the field. Rather, the government will further develop treatment provision for drug addicts, strengthen the lowthreshold provision of drug addicts and provide better follow-up after treatment, and not least help many more to make better use of drug-assisted treatment. In line with the Government Platform and the Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we need to improve and strengthen the offer of drug addicts. This is what we do, among other things. by providing a new escalation plan in the field of wastes. My ambition is to achieve the greatest possible degree of cross-political agreement on the escalation plan. I believe that the proposals should be discussed and seen in the light of the escalation plan, and that we should therefore wait for them to draw conclusions. I see from both the proposals and the vote and the discussion here today that there should be a broad consensus on lifting the drug field in the years to come in those areas where there is clearly documented effect. I do not agree with those who are trying to present the Norwegian debate on this as a debate between punishment and damage response. In Norway, considerable efforts are being made to reduce harm. It's a bet that I think needs to be reinforced. At the same time, however, we must also be able to maintain a law that ensures that we prevent recruitment to drug addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e941	While the government is working on the escalating plan in the drug field, we are receiving concerns, for example. that there are cuts in the LAR offer in the specialist healthcare service. The financial framework makes them fewer people who can follow up. We also receive feedback that there are delays in the implementation of the LAR offer in prison, and we receive feedback that municipalities also need to cut down on health and mental health protection because of the acute situation in the municipalities. So the question to the Council of State is, what does the Council of State do, in parallel with working on the plan, to ensure that it does not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e948	We have introduced the ‘golden rule’ requiring health regions to give priority to the drug field. We see that it gives us results. We have also earmarked funds for the purchase of several treatment sites. This has resulted in a significant decrease in both the number of people waiting for treatment and a significant decrease in waiting time. With regard to the provision of services in municipalities, we were very concerned, because the previous government had removed the earmarked funds for drug supply in municipalities in a situation where one had introduced strong economic incentives to prioritise other patient groups. Therefore, this government reintroduced the earmarking of money to municipalities to build up the supply of drug addicts, not least reception facilities in the larger cities. One started off at the top of 300 million. kr. It was reinforced in the 2015 budget and is now above 400 million. kr, which are earmarked funds for municipalities to build up the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e955	Then I want to repeat the question, because I am fully aware of what are the intentions of the state budget, etc., but we get these concerns messages, which I assume will also be passed on to representatives from other parties. What does the Minister do to follow up this important field for both municipalities, prisons and specialist health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e960	That was also what I responded to in my previous answer. The golden rule is followed up in all the contact meetings we have with the health regions. We also ask for evidence that it is being followed up. We have also strengthened the rule in 2015. In terms of municipalities, we use the strongest tool we have, earmarking money, and we also work very closely with the Ministry of Justice to strengthen our offers in prisons. Then there is a need to strengthen this further. If we had been satisfied with the situation, we would not have worked on an escalation plan. We believe that there is a need for stepping up in this area, and that is also why we are now working intensively to get a stepping-up plan presented in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e965	First of all, I would like to say that for the Left, we will continue to cooperate well with the government on the major challenges and the major measures. Then we have to respect that we can disagree a little bit about some individual measures. I can assist the Council of State a little bit, for example. by thanking again for intervening in the closure of Fekjær, which shows an example that the Council of State and the Government are following up on what is happening out there and do not accept that an offer should be dismantled. But then to the LAR programme: It is a challenge that many young women who go from heroin to LAR become pregnant. I think it's broken that we can't help anymore. They have challenges in dealing with their own situation. In addition, they shall provide care for a small child. I think we're giving too few long-acting contraception. What will the Council of State do to increase that offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e972	We have had our own follow-up theme in the Ministry of Health and Welfare related to the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation services to women. It is also true that it is quite clear that women in the LAR should have access to prevention and long-term prevention as part of the programme. Unfortunately, I have the impression that not everyone is offered this, and we have also started work to ensure that the information about that right is clearly displayed in the service. Then, of course, we're going to give good help and follow-up to the women who get pregnant and who want to be pregnant, who are within that scheme, but at least they're going to get an offer of contraception if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e977	I mean to have read that the government will charge for drug and psych patients in one of these alert messages. The Council of State gets to correct me, but if so, can the Council of State do something about how one imagines this to be implemented when we know that three out of four municipalities according to the Health Directorate think they have too little resources now to solve the needs of the inhabitants? How do you implement a new liability, and how my government council should define a printable leased fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e983	In the wholesale communication on primary health services, we warn that we will impose payment obligations on ready-to-print patients both in multidisciplinary drug treatment and in mental health. The background to this is that a person experiences with the payment obligations of the somatic community prioritizing that patient group. We need municipalities to also take responsibility for people with mental disorders and people who have been through a treatment for drug dependence. However, there will not be a copy of the payment scheme in somatic matters. In particular, for people undergoing multidisciplinary drug treatment, it is important that cooperation with the municipality be started, preferably before the patient is admitted to treatment, but at least very early in the course of treatment, so that a person gets planned housing, work, activity and the need for health care with the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e990	In connection with the debate on heroin-assisted treatment that took place last year between doctor Ola Jøsendal at Health Bergen and the Minister for Health, Ola Jøsendal wrote in Bergen’s Official Journal that we must have the courage to ‘take the consequences of such new knowledge’. He then referred to the evaluation of the Danish heroin-assisted treatment trial, which the Danish Health Board has summarised in the following way: ‘All in all, it must be concluded that the scheme has been a success [[...]] My questions are: To what extent has the Ministry of Health been involved in the results of Denmark? And: Does the Minister of Health, who is so sure that we are not going to do this in Norway, mean that the Danish conclusion in the self-test evaluation is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1000	First of all, it is important for me to say that very often when you hear the premise for this discussion – also when one heard the comments of the representative at Lysbakken earlier – it is presented as if we have tried everything in Norway and therefore have to try something new. The answer to that is that it is wrong. Had it been that in Norway we had actually tried to give drug addicts a good offer in terms of both early work, treatment and follow-up, as we know, and at the same time failed with the results, it might have been time to start discussing experiments. But that's not where we are. We're in a situation where we don't give people the treatment and the follow-up that actually has proven effect and that works. That's what's my main priority: actually to do what the previous government didn't do, that's to prioritize this patient group in the areas that work. So when you go into this kind of research report, you see that in terms of composition and results, this is much more complicated than it's done in short quotes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1007	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1012	The Labour Party received a number of questions relating in particular to heroin-assisted treatment trials, and I want to use the last article to clarify that this is a field in which we really have little knowledge, a field in which we believe there is a broad consensus – which the Council of State was also involved in – that we should seek more knowledge and give priority to more research. This means getting more knowledge about who is being affected by heroin-assisted treatment and the indicators to be applied to those receiving this treatment. So it's just an attempt to see what's going on. We think it's a little unprofessional to say that this means that it should be easy to get hold of heroin. We must not forget that we have left responsibility for LAR to the specialist health services, the leading medical environments, and that they must ensure that this is done within a sound medical and ethical framework, at least the Labour Party and also the other parties, I suppose, who support the proposal, have full confidence. We also know that there are a lot of different trials going on in other areas. There's a lot of areas where you might be able to succeed even better. Of course, that's what we're talking about. We have also received good results from the medical-professional environment in Bergen, which at least very many of us know best. Then they also try a substance that has approximated the same chemical formula as pure heroin. Then it becomes a little special that it is the name 'heroin' that makes a difference, and not that it has a different name. Because it's once again about an area that got patient status ten years ago. We have a lot to get them under medical treatment, and the environment in Bergen has always said that it’s about using heroin — and perhaps other drugs that they’ll have more effect on — to gradually get them under medical treatment. But if you don't do anything about your health, it's very difficult to do something in the other areas of life to increase their quality of life and give them equivalent treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1023	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1037	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1044	Today, we adopt changes to the laws that will make things easier for those who have expenses related to patient travel. These changes follow up the treatment of Reporting by the Storing. St. 9 for 2012–2013, One resident – one journal, submitted by the previous government. At that time, a unanimous health and care committee was set up to simplify the reimbursement system for patient travel. It is therefore good that there is now a simplification with the standard rate per documentation requirement and electronic transmission of reimbursement requirements. The proposal to introduce a new standard rate as a general rule for the coverage of expenditure will mitigate the current reporting burden on patients, while also reducing administrative costs. There are some exceptions to the general rule; they are well justified and take care of those who, for various reasons, would have been adversely affected by a new general rule for reimbursement. The changes that have been presented to us today also mean that we are moving to a more trust-based system. For this reason, the Committee considers it appropriate to provide for legal bases for the collection and enforcement of mispayments and for the benefit of patient travel in accordance with the corresponding provisions of the Law on Social Security. It is important that the provision provides a basis for non-compliance when there are particular reasons or when there are reasonable grounds for believing. Everything I've been talking about until now, the committee fully agrees on. However, on the part of the Labour Party and also other parties, we are concerned about feedback that has come about many finding the system that applies to patient travel, heavy gain and harassment. In particular, older people and patients with a weakened general condition report that a regulation on patient travel and its practice often represent an additional burden when medical treatment is needed. The changes that are being adopted today are making some of this easier, but it doesn't make everything easier. Therefore, we believe that the government should take a broader review of the entire patient travel legislation in order to amend, where appropriate, provisions that could lead to undue burden on patients in terms of ordering, travel and waiting times. It is the responsibility of the public to give the entire population equal access to the necessary health and care services. Our citizens should not experience that the economy is an obstacle to receiving the necessary health care or research. It is therefore important to keep excesses low both for travel and for overnight stays during the necessary treatment. Overnight stays represent a significant cost to many patients. We therefore believe that the proportion of overnight stays must be adjusted in order to respect the principle of an equivalent offer throughout the country. Finally, I would like to refer to those hearing bodies that point out that the compensation system must take into account geographical differences. The patient representative in Finnmark says, among other things: that it is unreasonable for patients with few travel alternatives to wait a very long time, for example. on the cheapest flight. There we in the Workers' Party agree with the patient representative in Finnmark. Long waiting times may constitute a significant additional burden in a disease situation. Health Nord has noticed that journeys exceeding 300 km must be covered by the cheapest means of regular transport. The health company points out that it is between 200 km and 300 km that the distinction between the cheapest travel mode and the standard rate can be the largest, many patients who travel within this distance can get out poorly. The Committee therefore agrees that this could apply to several regions and asks the government to keep the situation under constant review in order to adjust the scheme if necessary. Otherwise, I refer to the Workers' Party's comments on the matter. There are good changes that are being presented to us today. I hope the government will also make things easier for those patients who, even after these changes, have an unnecessary additional burden in connection with their patient travels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1067	It is the responsibility of the public to give the entire population equal access to the necessary health and care services. The purpose of the system for the reimbursement of patient travel expenses is that travel expenses should not prevent the patient from receiving the necessary enquiry or treatment. Today’s system requires patients to keep receipts and other documents and submit them manually. Treatment of the case at the patient travel offices is time-consuming. This amendment involves a strong simplification with a standard rate, fewer documentation requirements and electronic submission of reimbursement requirements. This will benefit both patients and health businesses. It'll be easier for the patient, and the administrative costs will be lower. This is, therefore, a measure that fits well with the government’s efforts to simplify Norway and to remove time thieves. This is an important improvement and simplification for Norwegian patients. The proposal to introduce a new standard rate as a general rule for patient travel expenses will mitigate the reporting burden on patients today. At the same time, the administrative job is reduced around the treatment. There are exceptions to the general rule, but they are well justified and take account of those who, for various reasons, will be adversely affected by a new general rule for reimbursement. As the rapporteur explained, it becomes right with such a great simplification and a system that is based to a lesser extent on written documentation of expenses and more on trust, to legislate for the collection and enforcement of the mispayment of benefits for patient travel. This will be done in line with similar provisions of the People's Security Act. A total of the aggregates agree that this should be introduced. We want to create patients' health services. Equal access to the necessary health and care services through good arrangements to cover patient travel expenses are important pieces to achieve this. With the decision we make today, we make life easier for a thousand Norwegian patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1080	In a quick search on the Stortingen website, I received 146 enquiries from various ministers regarding patient travel. Thus, this has been committed by the majority of parties, both on a general basis and in the form of individual cases over several periods. Therefore, I am pleased that this government facilitates further simplifications of this service. Not least, I am very pleased that patients with high travel expenses will also be protected in the future. The National Audit Office had a review of the governance of state companies for 2009. It was noted that the growth of expenditure was reduced after health care businesses assumed responsibility for patient travel. Nevertheless, the study showed that there were wide variations between healthcare companies in relation to the costs of patient travel. The system has been criticised for being heavy and difficult to understand, and it is therefore gratifying that this is now being simplified. The Party welcomes the fact that the choice of means of transport should not affect the payment, because it is often the choice that best suits itself with regard to the time perspective and whether there is a bus or train is hardly decisive in the choice of the individual. The freedom of choice shall be exercised even if the accompaniment supplement is removed. There is no additional charge for carrying passengers, e.g.: in your own car. However, if it is demonstrated that regular services are used, both patients and escorts are entitled to the standard rate. I am very happy to be taken care of. The fact that patients now do not document travel expenses, and that benefits and rates are calculated automatically, is a reasonable red tape, in our view. This, as the State Council has previously pointed out, is initiated in the light of the Storting's treatment of Reporting. St. 9 for 2012–2013 One resident – one journal. There is no doubt that at times the system has been characterized by a lot of papers and heavy-duty solutions for patients when they have applied for reimbursement. The fact that the scheme is now becoming simpler, with a standard rate, fewer documentation requirements and, in addition, electronic submission of reimbursement requirements, is pleasing to the many chroniclers in our whole country who depend on us to facilitate a simpler everyday life for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1095	The centre party supports the law changes and wishes to welcome them. This is what many people have contacted us about, and it is a very important cleanup. A scheme has been proposed that will be simpler. There will be a standard rate and fewer documentation requirements with electronic transmission. So it seems that there is a good solution, and that one has also made assessments of what can become the right solution and the easiest way to practice it – this is not quite easy. But we support what is the government's proposal for a common kilometer treasure, etc. I only have a few comments. It's a matter of overnight benefits, which the Committee has withdrawn. We're occupied with possessions, and that one should get back the cost of travel. There's a lack of justice in today's system that gives you an overnight support of 500 kroner a day, which is not enough. So some patients have to pay a lot in their own pocket. The second thing I want to mention is what the patient environment in Finnmark has pointed out in the hearing, that it is untimely that patients with few travel options have to wait a very long time, for example. to the most affordable flight. There have also been some episodes that have been mentioned, which seem very unimaginable. Because we have to think about often talking about sick patients, where unnecessary long journeys are actually quite a lot of extra strain. It is mentioned – at least in the notes – that there are also many who have experience that if a taxi is ordered via the patient travel offices, i.e. through healthcare professionals, it is not uncommon that there may be quite long waiting times. Then there is also talk about the elderly sick, for whom this is a burden. So it's important that one ensures that these systems are effective, and that there won't be an untimely wait. Those were my brief comments. The central party supports the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1110	The left will also support this proposal. Based on trust, we look forward to how it will work, but we have great faith that this is the way to go. Several have indicated that this will be an improvement for patients. That, of course, is the most important thing. There may be something left for those who have a long way to go, and those who have to stay overnight, but we'll have to do it along the way. Those for whom this will also improve — the many who work in health bureaucracies — are many of the treating doctors. Unfortunately, today doctors tend to be contacted to confirm that a patient has been in for an hour or for treatment. It is a double bureaucracy that is completely unnecessary. Hopefully this will produce effects on many levels, which are good for everyone. It's win-win. Technological developments make this possible, and if we can combine the opportunities of technology and give people more confidence, we can imagine gains for other sectors in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1121	I am pleased with the broad support that this proposal seems to have in Stortinget. Patients are entitled to cover the necessary expenses for travel to and from publicly funded treatment, so-called patient travel. The reimbursement scheme for patient travel is now to be simplified, and I am therefore following up one of the points in the Report. Art. No. 9 for 2012–2013, One resident – one journal. Today’s system is old-fashioned and time consuming both for patients and for patient travel agencies. Patients must keep receipts and other documentation and submit them together with the form by post. For patient travel offices it is a great job to sort and scan the incoming post. The proceedings are unnecessarily heavy and very time consuming. We're now writing in 2015, and the time has run out of this way of dealing with matters. It is time for the patient travel system to become user-oriented and modern. Today's proposal means that the system is simplified and adapted to electronic processes. This is a simplification that will be a good thing for all patients, especially older people and others who find it difficult to navigate in today's system. The rules have been criticised for being difficult to understand. Today, the general rule is that the patient is provided with the most reasonable means of travel on the route travelled. As a result, the handling of each requirement becomes unnecessary and may often require further investigation. I have proposed that one replace this system with a simple standard rate per kilometre. Patients shall be covered by a fixed rate per kilometre, regardless of whether they have travelled by their own car or collectively. This is a system that is predictable and easy to deal with. A standard system of care is a good balance between patient care and effective and rapid treatment, which also benefits the patient. For patient travel offices, this means that the procedure can be done electronically to a large extent. In this way, the administration can be made more streamlined. Although the standard rate becomes the general rule, travel over 300 km is nevertheless to be covered by the cheapest route mode — this in order to avoid excessive distance between the actual costs of the patient and the sum of the patient being paid. The figures from the Transport Economics Institute show that the patient is using a car in 80 pst. of the cases for journeys up to 300 km. For journeys longer than 300 km, car use is halved for the benefit of aircraft. In the consultation round, it came to the conclusion that many patients travelling between 200 and 300 km will be poorly exposed to the proposed system. Of course, when a completely new legislation is to be introduced, there are uncertainties. The government will therefore keep under review the situation so that we can adjust the scheme if necessary. With this reform, we are making it easy to promote travel requirements. Patients may submit the application online. Information on processing and attendance shall be automatically obtained from existing registers. Of course, those who are unwilling or unable to avail themselves of this solution must continue to be able to raise demands manually. I still think that the vast majority of patients will be happy that one now only needs a few minutes in front of the computer to get the application submitted. It's high time to modernise the patient travel system, and I'm glad there's such a large majority for this. For patients, there will be a big difference from today's old-fashioned system. The threshold for promoting demands is also lower, and patients need minimal time to apply for travel coverage. For patient travel offices, this implies a prolonged modernisation. Today's reform proposal is modern, it's effective, and it makes it easier for the patient. This is also a trust-based system, based on the fact that patients initially promote claims for what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1148	Now we make it easier for patients to apply for reimbursement for their travels and set a standard rate independently of the means of transport. That's good. But will the Council of State follow up the problem with those who still have an unreasonable burden on their travel, travel and waiting time prior to booking? And if so, how?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1154	Those who work on this work continuously to improve the service and offer to patients. I got caught up when the new scheme was introduced under the previous government, that I also received daily enquiries from dissatisfied patients on my e-mail or telephone. There was a lot of anxiety about this. However, I have a clear impression that things have gradually improved, and that someone is finding good solutions and providing patients with better service. It is also a work that needs to be continuously improved. And then, unfortunately, we look at the outcome of the Heia Norway solution, which means that it is not necessarily the legislation that forces the type of solutions, but that one has not seen the general rule number zero, that this should make sense. It also applies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1161	The purpose of the scheme is that travel expenses should not prevent patients from receiving the necessary examinations or treatment. They're all a few of them. I have a question for this with accommodation allowance, which is not in this case, but still is related to it. It also needs to be an objective that patients are not prevented from receiving the necessary health care because they have too high an attribute of accommodation allowances. This has been increased, and today he is 520 kroner. My question is whether the Council of State thinks that a overnight allowance of NOK 520 is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1168	As the representative is involved, this arrangement has also been increased under this government. A significant increase was made in 2013–2014 under the previous government, from 350 to 500 kroner, and a further increase under our government. So this is a budgetary question that you have to come back to. There is always a question of which schemes are given priority in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1173	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1178	Today I am the Ombudsman too many patients in my home country. The proposal being presented is good, but I am very shocked that the government in this setting does not say anything about patient travel and waiting time, as both the representative Toppe and the case rapporteur Tokerud had in mind in their contributions. There has been no lack of reports in the media, especially in West Finland and the Alta-Kautokeino area, where patients travelling to/from the University Hospital in Tromsø are faced with complaints that they have to travel for up to 14–15 hours from home until they are back. If you're a patient from Kautokeino, you have to get up at 0:00. 3:00 a.m. – and calculate arrival time 01.00 a.m. the next night, whose last plane is on the route then, and it belongs to the units in winter. I would also like to add that the population of Kautokeino is those who have the longest journey to hospital services in the country. There have even been examples of travel time of up to three days for those who are dependent on using public transport. Too many people are unsustainable — and complaints are being made, they say that this is how national rules on patient transport should be practised. Let's do it. On my written question to the Minister of Health in May 2014 about what he wants to do with this, the answer can only be interpreted in one way: nothing. The Council of State refers to patient travel legislation and that the legislation for patients does not provide guidance on the length of travel and waiting time required for patients to travel. Patient offices focus on managing legislation in an economic way in order to make the best use of health business resources, and patients must therefore wait – expect to wait some time, which is called – for transport. ‘Some time’ may be up to 18 hours. I know that time is relative, and we who travel a lot know that the waiting time at airports is perceived to be extremely long, although we wait only two hours and – fortunately – are relatively fresh. We can take it. But think about what those who are chronically ill, cancerous and with other diagnoses must feel when they see that planes for flights go to the home without them. Be good. Make good use of the waiting time. Your plane leaves at 4 p.m. 22.15, the greeting is from patient travels, although it very often separates only a few hundred patches from the fact that you could take a previous plane. But no, the principles must be followed. Is it strange that the patients who are exposed to this are frustrated and flight cursed — literally? I understand them well. It seems that it's not possible to use discretion. The answer is that you want to spend money on treatment rather than travelling. Everyone understands that, but questions have to be asked about when you're a patient. Is it from going out the door in your own home until you're back? Or is it when you put your legs in the hospital? If the government believes that there should be equivalent health provision for the whole population of Norway, travel time should be one of the criteria to be introduced. I would like to say thank you to the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, which are the only parties here that have cared about the waiting time as a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1197	I'm not going to spend a very long time, because the representative Simensen basically said what has been, and is, my concern in this matter. When I started working on this in the previous period, it was among other things. Based on their own experiences of completing these forms, as well as input from very many organisations — patient organisations, the Pensioners' Association and many who thought this was difficult. As I started working on it, these practical, strange handling of the legislation also came, which makes patients who can initially feel tired and weak, actually think it's a burden, just traveling, because it gets so heavy, so difficult and so demanding when, for example. should stay in a place where there is a hospital, without having any place to take care of, and when you are very weakened. What I've also experienced is that it's very different practice of the law, that you have so different interpretations, and when there's a complaint, you might be told that yes, yes, you get this granted anyway. So you see that there's a lot of uncertainty about just how to deal with it practically. I just have to stress very strongly that we from the Workers' Party are going to follow this carefully and bring it back to the Council of State and the Government if we see that there is reason to do so. I hope that the Council of State will take with it the recordings we have made now, that patient travel is also seen in addition to the fact that you have a simplified travel plan, that you look at how to deal with it in a practical way, so that patients who have long and difficult travel routes do not become sicker about going to hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1208	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1222	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1229	Training and specialisation of health professionals in Norway shall ensure high quality and, in particular, patient safety in healthcare. It is important that the specialisation of health professionals is updated in line with general societal developments. There are new health reforms, there is a change in population composition, and developments in the professions make it necessary to assess and reform specialist training for health professionals. Today there is specialist training for doctors on the agenda. In 2009, the government was asked by the Stortinget to present a case on the organisation and conditions of a future system of specialist recognition and training of health professionals, and in 2011 the Health Directorate was commissioned by the Ministry of Health and Health to carry out a review of the specialist structure for doctors. There are today many specialties, and you can read on the Medical Association's websites that there are 44 approved specialties in medicine and surgery. Of these, there are 30 main specialities and 14 border specialities, then in internal medicine and general surgery. The aim of a new specialist structure is to establish a specialist structure that meets the needs of the future and addresses changing demographic conditions, developments in medicine and, above all, changes in the patient and medical roles and cooperation reform. One of the objectives of new specialisation is to counteract the trend with increasing peaks at the expense of perhaps broad competence and resulting in fragmentation and subsequently fragmentation of services. There is a need to make something new. The changes proposed by the Health Directorate in the model require changes to the applicable regulations. The amendment we are adopting today will provide the Department with a clear basis for regulating the new specialist training scheme for doctors. A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, supports the Government's proposal to amend the Health Personnel Act in such a way that the Ministry has a clear legal basis for regulating the new system of specialist medical training and that provisions are now made on both the content, length and conditions of educational institutions which train specialists and the organisation of educational positions. The Ministry is now working on a new scheme in the light of the Health Directorate report and the subsequent consultation round. We are aware that no decision has been taken on the conversion itself. The medical association is in good dialogue with the ministry and said in the consultation note and in the consultation to the committee that they had a positive dialogue and that they supported the appointment of the ministry. A minority in the Committee will await the changes to the regulations and the content of the organisation, and would like it back to the Stortinget. I would like to point out that the department is going to decide which specialties we are going to have, which learning objectives we are going to have, and not least the content of the education. The Ministry has also announced that they will return to Stortinget with a separate case on the organisation and conditions of the future system of specialist recognition and training of specialists. They have notified that it will take place during the budgetary procedure for the autumn and in a new national health and hospital plan. New specialty in emergency medicine has been a topic. It is also announced that there will be a theme in the morbidity plan. The Committee is committed to strengthening and enhancing the competence of emergency services, and we look forward to a specialisation in reception and emergency medicine, and the Stortinget can discuss this principle in national health and hospital plans. There are also some other changes, but I can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1252	The Workers' Party considers that it is right and proper that the Ministry has delegated responsibility for determining the medical specialities we should have and the content of the training. We also agree that there is a need to strengthen today's specialist training. At the same time we see that there are more and more specialities, and the need is perhaps to get the education together, because very many of the patients have quite a lot of different diagnostics. It's a development that goes in two directions. We notice that there are several demanding and fundamental changes that are now being addressed in the design of the future model. The Labour Party therefore believes that it would be wise for the government to anchor the future education model here in Stortinget, for such a radical transformation will have a major impact on the development of Norwegian healthcare in the future. The working party also refers to the proposition’s reference to the request decision of the Health and Care Committee’s consideration of Ot.prp. No 83 for 2008-2009, where the Committee asked the Government to present a separate case on the organisation and conditions of the future system of specialisation approval. That is why we are promoting proposals here in Stortinget that the government presents us with a separate case on a future model for the organisation of specialist training. As the rapporteur pointed out, we have noticed that there is a professional disagreement about the design of a future specialty in emergency medicine. The Medical Association also chose to address this challenge in its consultation. Several of our major hospitals also have processes in place to strengthen receptions both with organisational grips and with emergency reception skills. Similarly, we are committed to ensuring good quality of the more decentralised emergency response. Emergency care is an extremely important part of our health service. The working party refers to the Minister’s opinion in the media that selection of specialisation in reception and emergency medicine will be promoted for Stortinget as part of the national health and health care plan for the autumn. We believe that when there is so much disagreement professionally, it is important that we are presented in open space with a solid knowledge base that looks both at the different international developments and new knowledge, and, of course, assesses how we have organised our health services here in Norway, and how it can be more attractive to specialise in emergency medicine. It is absolutely essential that we have the right skills to provide the right help and be able to give priority to those who need help first. Just in the case of emergency medicine, where it's so short a time to decide something that can have major consequences for the outcome, it's absolutely essential that it is united here in the Storting and that we make the right decision. With that, I am promoting the proposals of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1269	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1272	The need to change new and other specialities will always bring new knowledge, new research and new treatment methods, and when technology changes. The Christian People's Party takes note of what has been proposed by specialist training courses, from the Directorate of Health, and that it will consist of three things: one common platform of competence for all specialities, one common professional platform of competence, each speciality having its individual courses according to its specificity, and a continuous module of competence, as well. This is what the Christian People's Party believes in. The Christian People's Party also believes that this should have been done within other health professionals, because when we have a common platform and take what is special, for itself, there is an opportunity for more people to have more specialities – because one has a common platform. That's what the Christian People's Party believes is good. We also have faith that the dialogue between the Medical Association and the Department will be good, and that one actually gets into a structure that everyone can benefit from. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the Committee considers it important to increase its competence in emergency reception, and there has been considerable room for discussion in the Committee. In 2008, the Health Authority pointed out that patients were not well received in Norwegian emergency services, and the report ‘While waiting...’ said something about proper patient treatment in Norwegian emergency facilities, and that there was a particular lack of broad competence in emergency medicine. The Medical Association supports the ambition to enhance the competence of emergency services with the development of the general medical speciality. The Christian People's Party supports the majority that this must come into the health and health plan. We believe this is a central part of the hospital plan, and that it is closely related to both prehospital services, medical services and not least how we organise Hospital-Norway. We also know that they have their own emergency medical speciality in both Sweden, Finland and other European countries, where they have integrated this well. In the beginning – we know that too – there was opposition in these countries to this from their own medical associations, especially with regard to: What about less hospitals? The effect of this in Sweden has been shown to be less queues, greater patient safety, and smaller hospitals are waiting to get this speciality in addition. So it didn't happen that it wasn't useful in smaller hospitals, and that it was a major centralization. Perhaps Norway has something to learn from what Sweden, Finland and other European countries have done in this area. The Christian People's Party awaits and looks forward to what comes in the Health and Sickness Plan. The Christian People's Party follows the committee's recommendation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1287	In the first place, I want a comment on who should determine the medical specialities in Norway, because it's kind of funny that the Storting should be involved in it. But then the experience is also so that the Storting actually does it – it does the opposition of the day and the position of the day. It was the Storting that was a driver, at least it was one of the drivers, to get a specialty in drugs, so this is important to bring with it. The author of the case has also referred to the Innst. O. No 122 for 2008-2009, where a cross-policy committee agreed to ask the government to submit its own case on the organisation and conditions of the future system of specialist recognition and training of health professionals. Now the Directorate for Health has developed such a proposal, which is to be assessed in the Department. Then the department or government doesn't come to us with such a case, they come to us with a case where they just ask us for an extended rule to decide this without involving the Storting. That's why the Center Party does not support the proposed changes in health professionals § 51. I want to show you what the Norwegian Medical Association said in the hearing: ‘The specialist training of doctors and the organisation around them are issues of great national importance. The Ministry proposes a legal framework that is even wider than today in order to regulate content and organisational issues without the involvement of the Storting. This applies not only to the changes to be made now but also to future changes. [[regulation]] It could have been natural to wait until a final content and organisation plan is in place.» Now the conclusion of the Medical Association was that they undoubtedly supported the case presented, but this was what they said in the hearing. The centre party is committed to strengthening today's specialist training, but we are opposed to this being a work on which the Stortinget should have no leadership. So we support the Workers' Party's proposal that one should come back with a case on this to Stortinget. I also want to remind the Storting that one of the main steps of the Health Directorate, reducing the specialization period by one to one and a half years, is also against the Medical Association, because they think it will lower the qualification requirement for new specialists. They also believe that the quality assurance of the education department is too weak in the proposal. So there are several reasons why one should take a closer look at this from the Storing's side. When it concerns emergency reception, it was meant by us as an example that a specialty could actually also have political consequences, for several parties, and perhaps the majority in this case, have been in favour of a specialty in emergency and reception medicine. This has been criticised, among other things. by the Medical Association itself, which says: ‘The Lege Association considers that a new specialty in emergency medicine will be suitable only in the 4-6 largest hospitals in Norway [[University Hospitals]] If we're going to make this a requirement, that means that there might be an instrument to do a big centralization of emergency functions in Norway, and that's not what this is supposed to do. The central party supports the other legal changes in this matter, and it may not come up well enough in the setting, but in Roman Numeral Decision I support the changes of the Center Party, except for the changes in Section 51.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1315	The left supports the majority's proposals here today, on which Mr Bollestad's representative was present. The structuring of new specialist training is a step forward — that a more common module is given and that a distinction is made late in specialisation. The representative Toppe was in the role of the Storting. I want to say that we are taking greater political control of specialist training here, but the Left has no ambition to sit in the Stortinget and in detail control what medical specialisations we are going to have in Norway. When I say this, it's because the Medical Association has traditionally had a lot of influence over medical training. The committee was on its way to Australia. When we have 44 educational pathways in Norway and Australia — a significantly larger country — with 16, it is clear that one can discuss whether the number may already be large. Another discussion is which one should give priority. When one sees demographic development, I think it's strange that we don't have any more specialists in home medicine. There is also low recruitment to geriatri, but there will be another case. One of the debates going on here is on emergency reception. Today, for the Left, this is mainly about the organisation of emergency reception. In particular, it appears that the highest level of competence does not exist in reception, and that many of them are left to themselves early in their practice. That's all we have to do. Secondly, we are concerned that emergency reception is to have interdisciplinary competence. So we're not concerned about the fact that a new specialization in emergency medicine is the only one that's going to be in an emergency reception, but we think it's beneficial to get such a education as well. A specialization we think is a little under-communicated – about standing alone – is district medicine. Tromsø has trained doctors who have such a special profile. The great distances make it important to focus on it. It is precisely where many stand alone and have no other help to summon than volunteers and relatives. It's a special situation, and that's why it's important to train those who meet those situations. It also seems to us to be a theme to bring with it without it being necessary to become a new speciality, but one should build up under the competence developed in Tromsø and transfer it to other regions. In a situation where we have a lot of tournaments, many with no background in Norway and perhaps with poor languages, it is very important to focus on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1330	The government is proposing to amend the Health Personnel Act so that we have a clear legal basis to regulate the regulatory structure for specialist medical training. The amendment of the law forms part of the government’s follow-up to the Stortingen request decision of 2009. The government was then asked to present a separate case on the organisation and conditions of the future system of specialist recognition and training of health professionals. The Health Directorate has assessed the need for changes in medical specialist training on mission from the Department. The Ministry is now working on the implementation of a new scheme in the light of the Health Directorate’s proposal and the consultation round. Orders have also been placed with the Health Directorate and with the regional health companies to specify new arrangements in processes involving universities and the Medical Association. I intend to make a comprehensive proposal to the Stortinget for the autumn. The importance of improved patient safety will be central. Good training of specialists with high and appropriate competence is important in order to achieve better quality in the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients. The amendment proposed by the government should provide us with the tools we need to implement changes in the content of specialist training and in the specialty structure. We propose to continue today's system, where specialist training is regulated by regulations laid down by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This would also be the appropriate mechanism for the future. Although the department already has a law firm, I think it is right to clarify and clarify today's home. We are not going to discuss the content of the future medical device here today. The legislative proposal we are about to adopt does not prejudge the final decision on the specialist scheme. I want to present issues related to the speciality structure of doctors, the content and organisation of specialist medical training for the Stortinge to the autumn. The bill also proposes to amend the Health Supervision Act so that in the future the appointment of county doctors will be made by the State and not by the King, as today. In my view, today's system is bureaucratic and unnecessary time-consuming. In the future, close cooperation between the County Doctorate, the State Health Authority and the Health Directorate will also be important. In order to ensure this cooperation, I believe that a consultation system such as this should be established. shall involve the submission of employment cases to the State Health Authority and the Health Directorate before the appointment of a full-time medical practitioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1344	This question may not be very surprising; it concerns emergency medicine: can you assure the Storting that we are provided with a broad knowledge base for the choice of the future model in the field of emergency speciality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1350	Establishing a specialty in reception and emergency medicine is part of the government platform, which, of course, we are working on following up, also in this case. The representative is probably also aware that I have given an additional job to the directorate here: we have set up a group of people who also represent different views in the discussion that is taking place in the field, to get a good decision-making basis. I want to present the content of the matter related to the specialist training of doctors to the Stortingen in the autumn. The issue of new speciality in emergency reception is, for example: relevant to the national health and hospital plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1359	In his speech, the Council of State said that this bill does not give rise to future medical specialisation, but one has put leadership in the government platform, and as the representative from the Left said, not one of the Stortinge's experts in Norway, but one does so in the government platform. There have been some criticisms, at least objections from professional opinion towards such a specialty. I referred from the pulpit to what the Norwegian Medical Association said, that this is a specialty that is good and that will fit into the major university hospitals, but that does not suit most hospitals in Norway. So my question is, how does the Council of State intend to follow these objections? Can there be a speciality that is differentiated, or will there be a requirement to do this in all hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1368	First of all, I think it's a little strange that you can draw such great conclusions about where a specialty belongs, before you know the content of specialist training. It's not clarified yet. I believe that once we have landed on what kind of content this specialty should have, what subjects it should build on, it is also more relevant to have a real discussion about where this specialty belongs — in which different types of hospitals. But looking at whether having a specialty in reception medicine can be relevant, both in the larger and smaller hospitals, is, in my opinion, a real and good discussion to take, just to ensure that the developments we have seen, with very narrow specialist functions, do not need, for example. reduce the possibility of having emergency services in smaller hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1375	A topic that is relevant to the matter is that we are going to recruit many of these specialists in the next few years, and employment has been a topic on which many young doctors have been involved. There has been little predictability, some appear to be exploited in the work situation, and in particular some of those who start up a family seem to have found it difficult to enter into such a process. So the question is to what extent this will make it more predictable and provide more stable employment for those who choose to enter such a demanding specialist training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1382	Once again, I would like to stress that the matter today is not about the content of the education, but about giving a clearer legal basis than what exists today in order to be able to draw up regulations on how this is going to look, and the regulations will not be completed until we have discussed these various matters, which are coming to the Stortingen in the autumn. Then I perceive that what has been a main exposure in the area that the representative addresses is related to the question of temporary jobs. A consensus has now been reached between the Medical Association and Specter. They have come up with a model that I believe facilitates to ensure more predictability, and permanent jobs, also for doctors in specialisation. It is true that when you are in specialisation, it must be expected that you may have to work in different types of hospitals to get the level of competence you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1389	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1394	As a superior in a small local hospital, this is a matter I am engaged in and occupied with. Specialist training should be shaped according to the needs of the population and now has a golden opportunity to do so. It's important to take that opportunity. Then there's something I feel many mix up -- that emergency reception is the same as emergency medicine, and that you have to have more emergency doctors. I am concerned that the emergency receivers have great strength within what is acute, such as burns, heart attacks, births and damaged children. It's going very well. What's not going well is when it comes to multi-sick, chronically ill and elderly people with multiple conditions, which are often very, very ill, but who don't have this acute stamp. I'm here to strike a blow for interns and broad competence. There is a need for all hospitals, both large and small. At least I know that the Health Directorate, in its model of acute medical competence, has worked on reception and internal medicine as a specialty and not emergency medicine as a specialty. There is already speciality in emergency medicine. The issue is inter-medical competence in all Norwegian hospitals and that there is also a possibility to increase the involvement of university hospitals in broad and general internal medicine in order to avoid this continuing specialisation. I want to – along with the rest of the Christian People's Party – at least support the work on new specialist structures, and that we also look at the chronically ill, the multi-sick and the seriously ill elderly, who need better reception, without creating more specialities out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1423	Long-term sick leave is a risk factor for permanent disability, and the proportion of young people who disappear from working life with a disability pension is a top issue. Early retirement or exclusion from the labour market incurs considerable costs, both for individuals and for society. Research shows that the mental health of the population is quite stable, but in spite of this, the proportion of malaise granted for mental disorders is increasing. It is easier suffering such as anxiety and depression that constitute the large volume of those who are granted disability benefit. The risk of disability among people with mental illness does not appear to have been reduced, although treatment provision has been improved. One of the reasons for this may be that the improved treatment provision is targeting a minority of those with mental disorders. But it can also be a result of the way we have organised mental health protection separately from rehabilitation to work. The classical approach focuses on symptoms and on shielding patients during treatment from work pending a health report, based on an idea of how work can be harmful or stressful, and despite the fact that at the same time we know that work is good therapy for both mental and physical disorders and distress. Both the Nav and the Health Directorate are increasingly focusing on a new methodology, Individual Job Support, abbreviated to the English IPS. It is a work rehabilitation model developed in the 1990s in the United States, where rehabilitation into work is linked to the provision of treatment in mental health protection rather than organising it as separate services. IPS is a manualised and systematic approach to helping people with severe mental disorders to achieve work in the ordinary working life. The model is based on the assumption that wage work will be more constructive than harmful to the majority of patients, regardless of symptoms and disease history. Work provides economic protection, social belongings and identity. Unemployment has been shown to increase health problems. Among other things, suicide statistics show that one third of people under the age of 35 with mental disorders who take their own lives are unemployed or long-term ill. Many people with severe mental disorders express themselves that they want to pay for work. About 30 pst. the population will meet the criteria for mental illness in a year, but only a minority will seek medical attention, be sick or receive treatment. The normal state of most mental disorders is being paid. Experience so far in Norway with individual job support is that patients with severe mental disorders who return to paid work experience improved self-esteem, quality of life, reduced symptoms and fewer rehabilitations. At the same time, I have to make it clear that the evaluation studies show that health benefits are not quite clear, but research shows that wage work does not lead to a deterioration in health. This is important information for clinicians who are anxious that work may be too stressful for their patients. If you're out of work first, there's a lot of barriers to getting into work. There is still a lot of ignorance and prejudice about mental disorders, and stigma is a challenge. Depression can also lead to social withdrawal and negative expectations. Fear is associated with session avoidance. Attitudes among clinicians and most people can also represent barriers to return to work. Important system factors are also involved: Nav measures the number of decisions within deadlines; they do not measure whether decisions and measures lead to prevention of disability. The health sector focuses on health, and the responsibility of the school sector stops when the drop-out is a fact. Municipalities and employers know that the cost of disability benefits is borne by the State. People with mental disorders often experience falling between two chairs. Own health status, attitudes in society and a fragmented public system increase the risk of disability. Randomised studies are currently being carried out on whether individual job support focuses on quick return to regular, paid work, provides more permanent work than traditional measures offering sheltered work training or adapted work practices with wage subsidies. 400 people with severe psychiatric disorders from seven different counties have been followed up by researchers with control groups offered by the management companies. Similar projects have now been launched for people with mild mental disorders, such as anxiety and depression. IPS, or individual job support, has been developed in the United States, and the research-based studies will find out how the IPS methodology will work in Norwegian context. Of course, we have a different labour market and a completely different welfare system and follow-up system than you have in the United States. The first studies show that IPS gives higher participation after 12 months, 44.2 pst. versus 37.3 pst. within the control group. This effect also persists after 18 months and is particularly significant for the group that has been out of work for a long time. The main point of this interpellation is to break down the sharp distinction we have between health and work, between treatment and rehabilitation, and to promote new research that shows that implementing treatment integrated with job support against ordinary wage support both prevents disability, increases work participation and can provide better health than the traditional way of doing it, waiting for the patient to be informed before rehabilitation begins. Such an approach will require radical governance in terms of both health care and nav. The second point is that this direct job support methodology should also be tested in other parts of the health system, such as the health care system. for persons with somatic disorders. With such good results from mental health protection, there are great opportunities for faster health, improved quality of life, future tax receipts and reduced social security benefits for other groups as well. We can't let this be inexperienced. We also refer to an international trend. In 2013, the OECD emphasises the need to reconcile work and health in all patient treatment. The third element is to increase the use of the impact evaluation of labour market measures, in particular those aimed at preventing exclusion and getting people back into paid employment. I have to say it is striking that the studies currently being conducted are the first in Norway to evaluate the impact of interventions aimed at getting people with mental disorders into normal work. We need more research-based impact assessment to know how action works, who it might be best for, and who it does not work for. This means that Nav, in cooperation with the treatment system, can eat and make better use of the drug. For individuals, this could mean the whole difference. Personal job support is a relatively new measure, while the management companies have existed for a number of years, without any evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures. To the extent that it has been evaluated, the participants have been asked and looked at statistics, but not impact-assessed with control groups. We have a responsibility to give the right action to the right person, cut actions that do not work, and further develop what works. It's also about how we use the community's funds. The question is: how will the Minister contribute to a more holistic treatment of patients in the healthcare system, so that all important aspects of the patient’s problems are addressed in the treatment, including work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1459	The representative Ruth Grung addresses important issues relating to the relationship between work and health. Work and activity are a source of health, mastery and meaning for most people, both directly and indirectly. The idea of work and health has often been that work can cause health problems or that health problems can cause problems in the labour market or in the workplace. In my view, it is important to focus on a third relationship, which I also perceive the representative is concerned about, namely that work is a source of better health. This is also in line with the advice that comes, among other things. from the OECD, which has argued in recent years to strengthen the links between work and health. Unemployment and exclusion from work often have negative health consequences. The government assumes that more people will have the opportunity to work despite a health problem and to work as much as health permits. We now have knowledge of the positive health significance of having a link with the world of work. This will shape the government's future efforts. But there is already a lot going on in the area of work and health. In specialist health rehabilitation services, occupational rehabilitation has been developed as a separate subject area, including: in the case of several private rehabilitation institutions. The follow-up plan for work and mental health for which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Welfare cooperate includes several pilot and development projects. The core of these interventions is healthcare treatment combined with work-oriented follow-up from Nav and early contact with employers. As the representative Grung refers to, there are research-based pilot projects for people with mental disorders where treatment and job support are integrated. These show good results in terms of increased labour participation and quality of life. The Job Mastering Follow-up project shows that two years after inclusion in the project, the project had 60 pst. by social partners – 21 pst. in ordinary work or study. The results of the project remain stable even after the project has gone into regular operation. This is important and uplifting, primarily for those who come into meaningful work and experience better health, but also for society as a whole. I also believe that such results can help kill the myth that some of those who strive the most are unable to get to work or stay at work. Individual job support is a work rehabilitation model that is now being tested for people with moderate to severe mental health challenges or drug problems. The Health Service and Nav are working together in teams. Each user is treated in the healthcare system at the same time as being assisted by a job specialist to obtain a job in the ordinary working life. The interim reports of the pilot project are good, and many are working through the project. Much of the absence from work consists of patient groups with muscle and skeletal disorders and mild to moderate mental health disorders. the enterprise is another important measure. Employer, worker, healthcare and Nav cooperate to work preventively for employees with musculoskeletal disorders or mild to moderate mental health disorders. The objective is that by 2016 there will be a proposal for a new national concept based on the experience of the enterprise. The purpose of the scheme is to speed up the return of sick workers to work so that sick leave can be reduced. The target population is those who are sick and who receive sick pay, including long-term sick people. The offer shall be given to persons who are likely to return to work. Groups with mild mental disorders and with musculo-skeletal disorders are often reported for a long time. There are therefore many with the type of disease that should be offered through this scheme, both in Nav and in healthcare. The scheme is provided by regional health companies and by the Employment and Welfare Act. The specialist healthcare service offers treatment to the sick and those at risk of becoming ill on referral from a regular basis. The specialist health service has expanded its normal capacity and established new offers as part of Raskers. In the 2015 letter of assignment to the regional health care establishments, the scheme has the effect of speeding back: ‘The order shall be more targeted at groups that are often ill-reported for a long time, i.e. persons with musculoskeletal pain and mild mental disorders. Persons offered are likely to return to work more quickly. The effectiveness of the measures shall be measured and the measures evaluated. The services of users should be provided as far as possible in cooperation with NAV, the primary health service, as well as the employer and employee.» Municipalities also have an important responsibility in helping people to stand in, come back to, or start work and activity. We have a focused effort to increase the competence of mental health services and at the same time reduce the threshold for getting help. In this way, we reach people who are struggling, earlier and faster. The Rapid Mental Health Project is a good example of how new, competent low-threshold services change the traditional understanding of how work and disease can be combined. The traditional idea that you need to be treated until you are well before you can come back to work is replaced by a thought that you can learn to master your health challenges while maintaining contact with your work. The pilot project is evaluated by the Public Health Institute, but already the participating municipalities are so satisfied that they have decided to continue their operations after the project is over. I would also like to highlight the government's announced call for psychological competence in the municipalities as an important measure. Strengthening the competences of local authorities in the prevention, investigation and treatment of mental health is central to ensuring the further development of services. Furthermore, it is essential that municipalities and specialist health services coordinate actions both internally and between levels, and that coordination and cooperation with Nav be strengthened. Today, health and welfare services operate too much in separate silos, without necessary contact and interaction. Good health is important for individuals. Good health and the mastery of health challenges provide opportunities for life development, meaning experience and good quality of life. Longer sick leave increases the risk of permanent absence from work, which in turn increases the risk of health challenges, solitude and exclusion. Health services must therefore see work as both a part of and a measure of treatment. The Communication on the primary health service of the future states that: «an overall rehabilitation course for persons of working age who have the possibility of achieving full or partial working capacity must include measures to return to work». The Health Directorate and the Directorate for Labour and Welfare have taken together the initiative of a strategy to develop cooperation between the two sectors. The starting point of the initiative has been that work for most is health promotion, not least for people in the peripheral zone of the labour market. The measures in the work and mental health follow-up plan are based on many of the same principles, strategies and recommendations as in the OECD report. The same applies to efforts to increase implementation in higher education. Further efforts in rehabilitation with the aim of working will also be followed up in the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan. Health and welfare services need to go more hand in hand with the design of interventions for user groups in need of assistance from both services. Actions that have shown good effectiveness continue and measures need to be more clearly targeted at the major target groups where both the challenges and the impact are greatest. The patient’s healthcare service is a healthcare service that provides mastery, better quality of life and control to the individual to a greater extent than at present. In order to do that, we need to create a holistic process, where participation is considered part of the intervention. In this way, we can avoid fragmented services where work does not come into play until the patient is fully treated and rehabilitated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1517	I thank you for the answer, and I think we very much agree with the description. I may be missing a little response when it comes to the impact evaluation of Nav actions. I have a background from that department, and I know that there's a lot of billions spent over the years, and a lot of fates, so it's a little striking that you haven't used more resources to see what's going on. It's about getting individuals back to work again, and not least about the community's resources. But then it's the big mission: how can we reconcile within health thinking and using work in another way, and also with Nav – drying to approach health more? You get sick from work, and then you have to turn your head around and think that work should also be health-promoting. I have spoken to those who are researching this field, and they are very optimistic about what they have now experienced. It also shows the numbers so far that there is reason for this, even if new results are coming in the future. It's a lot about culture in health care and culture in Nav. Yesterday I was in South Africa, and it was one who summed up, who said that culture is so greedy that it eats every vision, every reform, for lunch. I mean, here we can eat it for lunch. So how do you manage to get that understanding and be able to change culture? It also makes sense to those who are now working within these measures that there is very great skepticism, perhaps the largest in the health system, so it will be the next challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1526	To the first feedback from the representative: When we agree on this matter, I fully agree with that. I think we have a common perception that work is a source of health, and that it is something that needs to go far beyond our entire service. With regard to the impact of Nav measures, I must ask for an understanding that perhaps it is a question that should be asked to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is responsible for those measures. It is probably right, as the representative points out, that we are faced with a very extensive upheaval of both culture and tradition. The traditional idea of health care is based on rest as a health burden, and that one should not work if one is ill, that one should lie in a bed for care. This is an approach that is demanding to turn around throughout the health field, such as: is also linked to the large amount of work now being done in municipalities, with a greater focus on everyday rehabilitation than traditional care and care. I find it exciting – the representative heard my review of the various projects and actions that are underway – that where we now see the most obvious results, some of our most ill patients are. When one in Bodø, for example, in mental health, allows patients who are hospitalized in the 24 hours, to start working while they are hospitalized, and when we know how sick a person must be to be hospitalized in specialised mental health, it tells us something about the potential. The same is true in Stavanger, where one has a job prescription as part of the course of treatment. It only shows, in my opinion, the great, significant potential that is in this area. But I think this will require a great and extensive work both on renovating where the systems prevent that thinking and not least on turning the health care attention to the concept of mastering. The representative knows that I have the clear opinion that the primary task of healthcare is to help each person manage to master his or her life, his or her challenges. Having the opportunity to be at work is part of this, so it challenges the very foundation, the very perception of what is the tradition of experiencing what is sick and healthy in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1539	It's a very important issue the representative Ruth Grung raises. Being at work is a goal for all of us. Work makes sense, it gives mastery, and it's important for our mental health. It is really public health in the broad sense. Too many fall out of work after long-term illness, and for many, too, it is not a defeat. Most people want to go back to work after a medical appointment, but often it is difficult to find it. Employment, employers and employees have an important role to play here, including: in inclusive working life. The government assumes that more people will have the opportunity to work in spite of a health problem, that they can work as much as their health permits. It's incredibly positive. Research shows that there is a health benefit in working. The 2014 public health report states – there are several researchers, I do not mention them here – that when the working environment is satisfactory, there are indications that participation in the labour market itself has a positive effect on health. Loss of work results in poor mental health, while return to work improves mental health. Work is too much a source of health-promoting social relations, personal growth and, above all, economic security. Work also structures everyday life, gives meaning and a social identity. I learned this early in the 1970s when I worked as a health worker at a large psychiatric institution, Lier Hospital. When I got to work, I wondered after a while where all the patients were. Yes, they were at work. They worked in gardening, they worked in poultry, they worked in a separate kitchen, and they worked in a small factory unit. This is too far away today, but I think it's like one of the nurses there said to me: you see that work, it makes you feel like you're making sense to something. The Minister has made a thorough presentation of various measures and the government's objectives in this area. I would particularly like to highlight the rehabilitation services in the specialist health service, where labour-oriented rehabilitation has now been developed as a separate subject area, and where there are several private rehabilitation institutions. The four regional health establishments offer employment rehabilitation, not least how to return to work more quickly. There is extensive cooperation with private and non-profit institutions serving households. In Health South-East, I want to highlight in particular the AiR labour rehabilitation centre, which is located in Rauland, Telemark. It is a centre of expertise that develops knowledge of building bridges between work and health. Professional development, networking and, above all, research work. They have an exciting offer in occupational rehabilitation, including: to young adults between 18 and 30 years of age who are diagnosed with ME — a difficult situation, as we know. They also offer rehabilitation with monitoring and evaluation with particular emphasis on participation, regardless of diagnosis. The target population is those at risk of getting sick and long-term sick. Much of the absence from work is made up of patient groups with musculoskeletal disorders — today’s people’s disease — and also mild to moderate mental health disorders. I would therefore like to highlight the project in the company. The University Hospital of North Norway is part of the Enterprise project, and there is a cooperation project between the specialist health service, the Nav, the primary health service, the employer and the employee. The aim is to increase knowledge and understanding of general health problems and not least how to return to work. As the Minister said, the aim is that in 2016 there will be a proposal for a new national concept based on these experiences. The patient’s healthcare service is a healthcare service that is intended to provide mastery, quality of life and control to individuals to a greater extent than at present. Health and work must therefore be seen in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1554	The question that Mr Grung is asking the Minister for Health today is good and very important. The labour force of the future means that we are able to make better use of our work capacity. It will also mean that we will make it possible for us to be able to work even when we face a disease in life. Work involves several important aspects of our lives. For many, work is important in caring for themselves and their families, but work is also an important identity builder and a significant part of our social life. It's a place where we need our skills and contribute to the community. Work is important to us. It is also a goal for society that more people are at work. An increasing proportion of the population is ageing. There will be fewer support for those who are outside the labour market. This is why it is so important that we take care of the forces we have in the workplace today and in the future, that the workplace is health-promoting and can meet the health challenges of the worker in a good way that contributes to better health, and that individuals have the opportunity to continue working. Sickness and damage occur most in the course of life. But for many there is still a goal and a desire to be in work for as long as possible. For many, work can be part of the solution to health challenges — and not to the detriment of health. I agree with the interpellant that work is good therapy, for both mental and physical suffering and distress. Through good organisation of work and occupational rehabilitation, we have a great potential for more people to be able to work. Absence from work often leads to negative health challenges. Maintaining contact with the labour market is, in many cases, crucial for future participation in the labour market. For every week the employee is away from work, the threshold is raised to return to work. That threshold we have to work to lower. This means that we need to strengthen the links between treatment, rehabilitation and work. I am pleased that the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Health are working closely on this. More people who are currently excluded from the labour market because they are believed to be unable to contribute are able to get to work – and have a desire to get to work. The progress party will work for them to be given that opportunity. It is also important that organisations and businesses put this on the agenda at their place of work. It is those who can contribute to the creation of health-promoting jobs and include persons among their present or future employees so that they can work even if sickness or injury occurs. Close contact with employees and organisation of work is the most important factor to take into account. That more people get to be workers, I consider a win-win situation. It is good for health, it can continue to be self-sustaining, and society is being exploited in terms of work capacity, resources and competences. It is then essential that health services and occupational welfare management cooperate well. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister of Health has made it clear that much is already being done to promote these people’s opportunities for participation, although it will always be so that more can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1580	First, thank the representative, Mr Grung, who addresses a very important topic. Participation in the labour market is a central value in our society, and high employment is a central objective of labour and welfare policy. More have been concerned with the importance of being able to work. I tend to say it very simply: one must have good health to work, but one must work to have good health. It is known that people with mental illness or problems make up a large proportion of those who are out of work or who are at risk of falling out of work today. Many of these need to coordinate the provision of both health and social services and labour and welfare management in order to exploit their working capacity. I guess that's the challenge and the difficulty. But there has been a lot of good work done, and the representative Grung refers to attempts to break down the sharp distinction between health and work, between treatment and rehabilitation, and I agree that it is very much about changing the traditions and practices of the way we have looked at the disease – that one should first be done with treatment before thinking about other measures. In 2007, the red-green government presented a national strategy for work and mental health, which goes straight into this issue. I would like to point out that work and health were a priority area of the mental health escalation plan, which was implemented in 2008. The work on strengthening work opportunities and improving the availability of market responses for people with mental health problems has shown that there is a need for ongoing and systematic action in the field. I have looked at the strategy plan that went out in 2012. It had five central areas that one would work with. One was cooperation and coordination, including: to assign own persons who could be without guidance and follow-up to the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare. The user involvement and self-help were the betting area. Actions and services, such as increasing the use of the workplace as the labour-rights arena, and developing labour market measures further. And further, easier access to health services and focusing on young people with mental disorders. This with competence, networks, information and grips was also a central area. A central area — the fifth — was knowledge, research and development. All of these areas we've been in today, so it's up to us to pass on that strategy and the goals that were set in motion then. I have listened to what the council says. This is where both the Labour Council and another committee, which is now at a committee meeting, should be, because this is going between our two committees and is as important to our committee as it is to the Labour and Social Committee. Finally, something that no one has been in. This is also about an inclusive working life. We can talk about labour market measures and sketched plans, but if we have an inclusive working life, it is the most important thing. I think that he lost his job in the Green House in the municipality of Bergen – which he had had for all years – because the Green House was set up to compete. We must also dare to talk about it when it concerns the working life of these specials.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1595	I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the debate. I was aware that there is quite a broad consensus, but what is the challenge – which I actually took up – is how to manage to change from what it is today. As far as primary health notification is concerned, there is a vision of more interdisciplinaryity. I think that within this field there will be a need for even more – it will be like mastodons – we will be able to agree in a different way. I also mentioned this culture. The only strong counterweight when culture acts negatively is good and clear management. It is a challenge both for the Minister and for us here at Stortinget how to apply the new knowledge within this field, to manage to break down some of the barriers and then raise this. I think we have to think quite new and broad, we have to be able to change this – otherwise one will continue with small projects on the side. They feel quite lonely, those who sit and work on these projects – unfortunately – even though it is a joy every time they succeed. But there's a lot of resistance to this, not least from other clinicians. We also have to do something about how we report, and the system. It will also have an impact. I am fully aware that it is the Minister of Labour who is responsible for Nav, but at the same time it is those who face health challenges. There should be an overlap here, and the feedback is that more impact evaluation needs to be done. In the first round, it is important that we also be able to put in place a system and an understanding that it is the individual's resources to be mobilised, both healthily and in relation to the other resources that are around. This is a slightly different way of thinking than what has been up until now, and as I also see sprouts in very much of the work that we do in all other areas. So someone has to move on. We're a little impatient, and we're going to be. So here I still hope for good cross-political cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1612	I am pleased that the representative stresses that there is no single solution to this major and comprehensive issue, but that this is something that we must work systematically with over time. I believe that the rest of the healthcare in this area also has a lot to learn from the rehabilitation field, where this thinking is already very prominent. Many of the objectives of the work being done are precisely to help individuals use their abilities and opportunities and master their lives. This is also linked to one of the other major changes in our society, namely the demographic change – that more people in our society are getting older, and that more of the elderly are healthier. This is why it is important to see this in the context of age limits in the labour market. Many people today are being pushed out of work at a time that they rightly perceive is far too early. As long as we succeed in creating a society where people live longer and are healthier, we must also facilitate that we have a working life that gives one the opportunity to contribute to society. Age limits are then an important tool. This is also something that is very clear in the public health report, which the Committee is now dealing with, where active ageing is a key issue. This is also a priority area for the government and, not least, for the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which works on this issue and coordinates work across different departments. This is also about the possibility of trying to get into the workplace. There is a political disagreement about the instruments involved, but we believe that the changes adopted by the Storting in relation to the Working Environment Act help to give more people the opportunity to try out their working capacity and get into working life and not least facilitate a working life where they do not have to be 100 pst. fresh 100 pst. of the time, but where one has the ability to contribute when one can. Basically, if you look at this from the perspective of healthcare, it's about the basic understanding of what health is. Then we're back to the fact that here there's a need for a big change, which is about changing a culture that might be a thousand years old. So this will take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1628	So the debate is on case No. 7 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1644	Music therapy has been shown through research to affect many areas of practice ranging from working with premature infants to the elderly with dementia, through prevention of children and young people, mental health and drug prevention and drug treatment, as well as care for the elderly and palliative care. Music has an impact on our native non-language competence in communication through sounds and rhythms, but also on our individual musical preferences, which are important to our identity, motivation and quality of life. Music therapy has demonstrated an effect on anxiety and medication. The new National Professional Guideline of the Health Directorate for the Investigation, Treatment and Follow-up of Psychosellings recommends the use of music therapy. In the guideline, it says: ‘Music therapy promotes recovery and treatment should start at the earliest possible stage in order to reduce negative symptoms. The treatment must be carried out by approved music therapy therapists.’» Music therapy has been awarded the highest grade and the knowledge base for the treatment has been evaluated at the highest evidence level. At the trade conference on music therapy now in May, a specialist consultant in Health Directorate Brittelise Bakstad informed that music therapy is in the process of being incorporated into the national professional guidelines for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug problems and addiction. The guideline is expected to be ready in September 2015. The scientific community in Norway is fully involved in the research front. Qualified music therapists are trained both at Norway's music high school here in Oslo and at the Griegakademiet at the University of Bergen. In the public debate, there has been some mixing of the terms ‘music therapy’, ‘health-related music use’ and ‘cultural walking stick’. The aim of the cultural walking stick is to give older people greater opportunity to experience professional artistic expressions and participate in different cultural activities. Music therapy is currently little developed in the field of mental health protection and drug addiction. This applies to both specialist health services and municipal services. It is important to be aware of the difference in implementation challenges at these two service levels. The main tasks of the specialist health services are investigation and specialised treatment, and there is a need to integrate music therapists with approved education into these tasks. Nordfjord Psychiatricians and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospitals have pioneered the use of music therapy in the field of mental health protection, and the Bergensklinikken Foundation and the Tyril Foundation have the same role in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. Further implementation should therefore be based on their experience. The tasks in the municipalities are much wider. For social and health services it is about prevention and follow-up, for users about quality of life and day-to-day mastering. There is therefore a need to distinguish between treatment tasks requiring approved music therapy education and other health-related music use in which the music therapist is more involved as a guide and organiser, so that resources in the community can be mobilised, following the same division of work as we see in the care of the elderly today. Music therapists provide treatment to those patients who need the most, and otherwise should spend much of their working time on competence transfer, so that caregivers, relatives and volunteers can be helped to use music as a positive resource in their everyday lives. This is why, in addition to stimulating more use of music therapy in service development, there is a great need to develop good and knowledge-based models for implementation at system level. The University of Bergen and Uni Research Health have taken on board this and established in January of this year what is called POLYFON, a network of music therapy research and practice developments in which one, in cooperation with a number of health companies and municipal authorities, tests and evaluates different approaches to the development of music therapeutic services. The network is unique in national and international contexts. It is a political question how much you want to stimulate such processes nationally by means of information work, competence development and follow-up research, but we are totally dependent on training more music therapists, we should be able to provide equivalent health services across the country. Today it is approx. 300 music therapists in Norway. The professional community believes that the new guidelines will create a need for approx. 600 more music therapists, in addition to getting more in the care of the elderly, so that there will be a total need for approx. 1,200 national music therapists in the years ahead. Today, there are less than 20 music therapy positions in mental health protection and just a handful in drug treatment. In psychiatry and care there is therefore a great need to put new knowledge into practice. Publicly funded healthcare is based on the principle of fairness and equivalence in the offer. It is worrying that so few are offered professionally recommended treatment based on research-based knowledge. So the question for the Minister of Health is: What action will the Minister take to ensure that new professional skills, such as music therapy, become an integral part of healthcare and an offer to far more than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1687	The representative Grung addresses an important theme in this interview. Psychiatric disorders bring great stress to those affected and to their families. The investigation, treatment and follow-up of psycho-sellants is very important. Early detection of signs of disease can ensure that untreated psychosis is short-lived. Early efforts with knowledge-based measures increase the possibilities for recovery. The measures must be individually adapted, take into account individual resources and contribute to increased mastering and participation in society. The representative Grung refers to the National Professional Guideline for the Investigation, Treatment and Follow-up of Psycho-Self Persons as developed by the Health Directorate in 2013. The guideline points to a number of forms of therapy that have, or may have, an effect in the treatment of psycho Seldom. Overall, national professional guidelines for the treatment of psycho Seldom about 80 recommendations are included. Among these is the recommendation on art and music therapy. Art therapy includes music, drama and dance therapy as well as visual art. Research shows that music therapy is particularly effective in reducing negative symptoms. There are also indications that the effect of such treatment is present six months after its completion. Music therapy is as effective for patients admitted to 24-hour settings as for those receiving outpatient treatment. Research shows that music therapy can be used in both mental health protection and municipal work. The recommendations are therefore relevant to all levels of the service apparatus. The Health Directorate’s guidelines are knowledge-based recommendations. By relying on them, health professionals can be confident that they comply with the requirements of the legislation on professionally sound health care, even if recommendations made in the national professional guideline are not legally binding. In situations where health professionals choose solutions that differ significantly from the recommendations made, evidence should be provided. A person should also be prepared to justify his choice in any appeals or supervisory proceedings. When assessing whether it is in accordance with good practice, the supervision is based on recommendations that have been developed systematically and that are knowledge-based. The guideline should be central to quality improvement work. Health care managers are responsible for the organisation of their activities, so that recommendations made in the national professional guidelines can be followed. The recommendations have been graduated to four levels. Four factors are therefore considered to determine the level: the scientific knowledge base and ethical, political and economic conditions. The work of the music therapist consists in facilitating the situation so that each client is able to develop his/her resources through music activities. Music therapy is part of multidisciplinary treatment and requires planning, ongoing evaluation and follow-up. Several studies show that music therapy reduces symptoms and increases the level of function. Music therapy complements existing forms of treatment, empowers the user and mobilises the user’s own resources. Music therapists are currently working both in the field of mental health protection and in municipal health and care services. Music therapy is also used in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The music therapist can work with both groups and individuals. A lot of people work in multi-disciplinary teams. The music is used as a tool for interaction, communication and development. The Government has granted 5 million in the State budget for 2015. kr to further develop and disseminate training programmes on environmental management and integrated use of music and singing to staff in the care services. The Health Directorate has been commissioned to do this. It is organised under the Competence Plan 2015, and the Health Directorate is making arrangements for municipalities to apply for funding for training programmes. The target group of these funds is staff of health and care services working close to users and patients who benefit and enjoy environmental treatment with music therapy. Among other things, there are patients with dementia, stroke, Parkinson's disease and others with cognitive failure. In such training programmes it may be appropriate to use music therapy trained personnel. With these funds in the 2015 State Budget, the government has followed up the proposals in the morning's care notice. The Communication states that in order to develop a forward-looking and good care service, there is a need for greater emphasis on activation both socially and physically and more attention to the social, existential and cultural needs of users. Arts and culture can be used to develop new methods and professional approaches in health and care services. Culture and care must play together in close inter-disciplinary cooperation that stimulates both body and soul and activates thought and emotional life, for example. through memory groups, writing projects, dance lessons and musical groups or through art and cultural projects based on the individual's abilities, interests and life history. Various environmental measures have gradually been developed that can be used therapeutically for anxiety and depression in dementia or for detoxification in care and daily activities. Like the specialist healthcare service, the care sector also needs to develop systems to ensure that new knowledge is put into service. It is positive that there is a national professional guideline for the investigation, treatment and follow-up of people with psychosis. Recommendations provide a basis for reducing undesirable variation in practice. I would like to point out that the question raised by representative Grung concerns one of the 80 recommendations in the guideline. It is positive that there is research on the effects of music therapy. Music therapy has been used in mental health protection for decades, but research has not been effective in recent years. However, the guideline does not contain recommendations as to the extent of such therapy and access to music therapists has not been assessed. Any assessment of possible educational consequences must be made when there is more experience of new forms of work resulting from the guideline. I would like to stress that it is a management responsibility at all levels of healthcare that recommended and knowledge-based methods are used.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1713	On the one hand, I am very aware that the Health Directorate is very positive about the use of music therapy, but I also know that in the area of mental health protection and drug treatment, there is a bit of a search for success. And when the minister thinks that there is one measure in 80, it seems that this has relatively little significance, and that one will wait to look at further research before pushing it out. So I feel that it was not the forward-looking attitude that I had hoped for. And if we look back a little bit on the discussion we had in the previous case, there's a lot of conservatism, perhaps especially in health pros, and the organization of a whole new profession within an established system, as it is in the health field, with all the professional management that's there, is challenging, so there we politicians have a responsibility to raise new knowledge. Of course, it's going to be researched in parallel, but when it's given such a positive effect in an area where we're a little bit sought after, especially in the area of drugs and mental health protection, I hope you can be a little bit more forward. There are not at least a lot of people who want to learn this way, and perhaps getting a little wider health skills in these areas will have an impact not only on patients but also on the working environment. I hope there's going to be a little bit more commitment to the use of music therapy, and then we'll be better at documenting the effect of it when we look at the environments that have come a long way, and the institutions that have tested it out, and then we'll all, as politicians, do our part of the job and follow it up. But now I'm waiting for the debate from my other colleagues, and I'd rather look at the summary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1720	As I replied in my post, this is one of several recommended treatment measures in the guidelines. It is important that we allow treatment guidelines mainly based on knowledge-based assessments from the professional community itself. I have a very clear impression that music therapy is spreading in the ministry, especially in mental health and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. However, the area where the use of music as therapy and as an integral part of the offer in recent years may have gained the most growth is within the community care services. The effects are also well documented. Music therapist as a professional is one part of the discussion, but the use of music as therapy can also be done by other health professionals who have gained competence in using it as an integral part of the care service. So I am – as the representative – convinced that this is going to become more and more common in the ministry. Although it's been there for ten years, I think it's going to be more and more common in the future, both in the specialist health service and not least in the municipal health and care service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1731	First, thank you to the interpellant for raising an important debate. It is a pleasure that there are several people who have registered that this interpellation is being promoted today. This applies, inter alia, to: the professional music therapy environment at the University of Bergen and Uni Research Health. They've given me input that I want to get hold of. There are some implementation challenges. As the professional community assesses, the implementation of the recommendations contained in the guidelines provided by the Directorate-General for Health will require instruments in addition to the ordinary one, mainly because this requires the integration of a new professional qualification into the healthcare system. Implementation cannot be achieved without a sharp increase in national educational capacity in music therapy. As the representative Mr Grung was in the Chamber, the national professional guidelines say: ‘Music therapy promotes recovery and treatment should start at the earliest possible stage in order to reduce negative symptoms. The treatment must be carried out by approved music therapy therapists.’» The negative symptoms referred to here are the challenges people with psychosis can face in terms of motivation, emotional awareness and social interaction. Here, music therapy is a well-documented effect. These are life problems that are difficult to deal with using traditional medical methods. The University of Bergen has underlined the word ‘must’ in the technical guidelines. They believe that ignorant practices represent a risk to patients and the safety of users that threatens the quality of treatment, rehabilitation and multidisciplinary cooperation weakens confidence in the health care system and the professional groups weaken the basis for professional development and research; This, of course, means that there is a need to increase educational capacity. The responsibility lies with the Ministry of Knowledge and the educational institutions, but it is relevant in this debate because it relates to the question posed by the interpellant. The council tells us it's set at 5 million. kr to train health professionals. But this is about much more than whether we're going to succeed. International music therapy is established as a profession and a university discipline. In most European countries, the qualification requirement for professional pursuit is an approved master’s degree. The study integrates the music and health professions, which is a prerequisite for working competently and properly with those users who have the most needs and challenges. From an international perspective, Norway is in fact the world leader in some areas in terms of quality of education and research in this field, but is relatively short in terms of health implementation. In this context, I refer to the United Kingdom, where music therapists have been an authorised health profession since 1999. As I said earlier in the debate, it is about today. 300 music therapists working in Norway. The assessments of the professional community are that, in mental health and drug use, there is a need for twice as much. At the same time, there is a great need in the care of the elderly. The number 1200 on a national basis is mentioned. Without such an increase, which will necessarily take place over a few years, it will be a geographical lottery for users to obtain access to recommended treatment. Accessibility depends on where one lives and uses services, which is contrary to principles such as fairness and equivalence in the provision of public health services. The estimate of the need for 1,200 music therapists nationally is moderate, while the realization of this requires a rather drastic change in relation to the current situation. Today's capacity is 24 students per year, which is adapted to yesterday's situation. However, at today's pace, it will take at least 50 years to achieve the current objective. Such a time horizon is in many ways unsustainable, both in terms of the quality of the services offered by users and in terms of the professional's work on knowledge and skills development. While the implementation of national professional guidelines is usually primarily a management responsibility in the service, the integration of a new professional competence such as music therapy will require a bet in addition to the instruments the health services normally have when recommended knowledge-based methods are used. There is clearly a need for a national music therapy plan in both specialist health services and municipal services, and there should be a clear signal to the Ministry of Knowledge about this. We have a lot of research on the effect, and so we have to start the important work now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1771	There are probably very few of us who can't be influenced by music. When I go down Karl Johan's street on my way home from work, I meet a lot of people with earplugs or headphones. It's not hard to see, from look, facial expression or body language, listening to your favorite music. In all phases of life, music has a meaning. Persistent parents dash over the pregnant stomach and humming baby songs; I have sung about the trolls that lay their eleven little trolls, every night for my kids. We sing at the wedding, we sing at the funerals, and music is a natural part of our daily lives. So sickness can hit us all. Some experience severe traumas that give them mental health challenges. Others suffer from a creeping cognitive disorder that makes the mental — or head — no longer function properly. But the need and ability to enjoy music are, of course, still present. Then music can also be medicine. This is where the systematic use of music therapy comes in. Music therapy is about the use of music in interaction with people to increase their quality of life and health. Music therapy has established itself as a research-based discipline in recent years, and it is a professional practice in Norway. We know that music therapy promotes recovery, and the earlier treatment starts, the better you manage to reduce negative symptoms. So it's that we have good results, it's evidence-based that it works, but we're missing the broad implementation and use in the service. That is why I am pleased that the interpellant is addressing this issue today. This applies both in mental health protection and in the treatment of people with different dementia diagnoses. We know that music therapy can be effective in reducing agitated behaviour in patients with dementia at home. The reason is that music as a therapy form works for all four human dimensions, which of course are also present in patients with dementia who have agitated behavior. We note that music therapy is strongly recommended in psychosis guidelines, and that the likelihood of a good effect is high for patients with harmful drug use and drug dependence. Music therapy also acknowledges that each of us must meet individually. When we're going to create the patient's healthcare, we're concerned that it's the patient who's an expert on himself. This is also important in terms of the use of music as therapy. Music can evoke the world's best memories, but music can also arouse fear, contribute to increased unrest, and recall memories that are not good. Therefore, music therapy must be carried out with competence and vigilance in relation to the patient’s reactions and needs. We are happy the government has taken important steps to further develop and disseminate skills and training programmes on the use of music therapy in care. It is also an important leadership challenge to raise competences about the use of music as part of environmental treatment both in mental health protection and in municipal health and care services, which is part of important professional development. We know that music therapists are important, it's also a leadership task to have with this resource when building a good health service for these patients. At the same time, I agree with the Minister of Health, who says that it is incredibly important that the health professionals who are close to patients every day, every day, every day, also have knowledge and competence to use music in everyday care. I know a very brave lady named Siri. She has a demanding everyday life; she has had many of them in recent years. She tells me that music means as much as physical activity for her. Music helps her get mental free minutes. It's important for all of us to have good spare minutes. For mentally ill patients and for dementia sufferers, music is equally important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1797	Like the previous speeches, I want to start my article with some reflections about music and how important it is in our lives, without us always thinking about it. My friend's father died very early. He was a sailor. In the funeral they played "I am sailing" with Rod Stewart. At that time it was not common for music other than hymns to be played in church, and I still remember how all these sad people sat and smiled, because just this song was so intimately correct to the life that her father had lived. We feel happy when we're at the concert, we dance to music, and we sing to our children. The music follows us throughout our lives, through both sorrow and joy. People in drug treatment and mental disorders are often asked to stay away from some forms of music. Melancholic melodies and destructive texts drag you even further down when life is already heavy and difficult. In other words, we know that music affects how we feel. Even in the last few years, I've been following this closely. One girl I've been following out of the drug scene for the last three years, who has multiple psychiatric diagnoses, went three years ago to 32 different medically prescribed drugs in addition to GHB, cocaine, and heroin. She has received several types of treatment in the last three years. For the past year, she has gone to trauma treatment, to psychologists with expertise in sexual abuse and to music therapy. After each treatment with the two formers, she is so exhausted that she often vomits, and has to go straight home and lie down every time. However, these treatment hours are correct and important for her. But after the hour of music therapy, she's always happy and happy. These days are her best days. Jenta is now drug-free and goes on only two medically prescribed medications. Music therapy promotes development, change and recovery for her, and it replaces medicine. Music therapy can be used in luck or outpatient care. The reason I mention this is to explain that I do not consider music therapy to be the only right thing, while I think it is a very important offer, which I would like more people to participate in. Unfortunately, we are a little slow to adopt new methods in Norway. Good projects are not well enough integrated across the country, and knowledge is not shared, as was evident when the evening post was to write about music therapy as an offer to demente. They wrote that now the employees would sing on the job. We therefore allocated money in our budget to make more aware of the possibilities of singing and music. Music therapy is about both music and health. I myself have been busy building up drug-free treatments and believe that music therapy in such treatments should be used. Now, when we introduce free treatment options, I believe that such offers will come, simply because competition promotes diversity. Music therapy in municipalities is most likely to have a different device than in the specialist health service. Where this will be an investigative and treatment task in the specialist health service, I think it will be a more preventive task and a follow-up task in the municipalities. In municipalities, music therapists may also be more able to guide and facilitate more use of music as a positive resource in the regular health and care services. We can contribute by making this known and by giving money, as we did in the current budget. Even I consider myself a good ambassador for the music therapists, because I have seen it used and seen what a wonderful result it can bring. Like the interpellant, I would like to welcome the knowledge about the use of music therapists.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1820	Thank you for raising an important theme. The health system of the future and of the patient shall be knowledge-based. There are more and more subjects who can contribute here and who need to be given opportunities to contribute to the knowledge-based healthcare. Music therapy provides opportunities for development, opportunity for change. Music therapy is resource-oriented and explores the patient’s own goals and resources in health promotion work, treatment, rehabilitation and care. Today, it is actually ‘What is important for you-day’ in the rehabilitation field, asking the user of the services: What is important for you? – I saw the Council of State wearing a button before today, but it has obviously fallen off in the course of the day. Music can create new opportunities for communication and personal expression, especially for those patient groups where words are difficult and language lost. Many patient groups, in addition to the psychosis group, may benefit from music therapy. This applies, as I said, to mental problems, but also to developmental challenges, learning difficulties and the many age-related health losses, such as dementia, Parkinson’s disease, language loss and the restrooms — just to name a few. The music therapist may arrange for the individual to develop mastery. So there's art and expression therapy, music therapy, and also sensory and sensory space are approaches that reach people in ways other than the usual conversation. There are knowledge-based approaches, although many may seem strange. It is treatment and competence that can help large patient groups but is almost unavailable. When there are so few therapists and so low educational capacity, the transfer of competences and the sharing of competences will be crucial, but there is also a need to put in place work to strengthen education and training. The hope of the Christian People's Party is that education will be strengthened, and that the sharing of competences will be developed, both through new policies and through good governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1833	Thank you to the interpellant, who again has a very important debate. Many have been in the pulpit and explained the importance of music therapy. I agree with all the descriptions and what has been said about it. Music therapy is positive at the individual level and has a value in itself, but what is special is that it is a form of treatment. Others have probably seen the same thing as me; it's kind of a woodwreck where other treatments don't work out. There's no one against music therapy or music therapists, all of them very much for music therapy. The policy behind this is that we have now also received these guidelines, which are addressed by the interpellant, and now it has also entered into the national guidelines on the distribution, treatment and follow-up of psycho-selling people. So it's a clear recommendation on music therapy. The guidelines state that: ‘Music therapy promotes recovery and treatment should start at the earliest possible stage in order to reduce negative symptoms. The treatment must be carried out by approved music therapy therapists.’» It is unlikely that treatment is also covered by national professional guidelines. It shows that this isn't just something that people think is good, it's actually also a very professional reason to take it in. Before drug treatment, it has come in – if not on such a strong recommendation, it is at least inside. What the interpellant picks up is that when we're all so few, and when it comes to the recommendations, there's one big problem, and that's that we have so few music therapists in Norway. It's just 20 pieces, and it's an educational capacity of 24 years. If you want to write out what's in the recommendations, it'll take 50 years before you can offer it, and then I think it's an understatement. I think that you can have a lot of possibilities in the care of the elderly, which I wonder if they are included in the numbers. Today, there are few music therapists both in the specialist services and in the municipal health services. The Council of State said that the professional guidelines did not mention the scope of music therapy, nor did he say anything about the educational capacity. I think that it is a political responsibility to ensure that music therapy can have the scope necessary to have the therapeutic effect, and at least it is a political responsibility to ensure education capacity. So the government council that was supposed to be here today is Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, who could have answered whether he sees the need to increase the educational capacity of music therapists. Based on the information I have received, it is possible in the short term to double the capacity from 24 to 48, and there is something that he should evaluate very immediately, if all of the good words that are being said today are going to have some value. Finally, I want to develop the municipal health service. One thing is mental health protection in the municipal health service. A primary health message has now been delivered to transform the Professional Neutral Public Health Act and only mention different professions. I assume that music therapists are not mentioned in the new change. This means that then the municipality should prioritise between statutory professionals and a music therapist. It is clear that there is a great deal of negative for the music therapists, and a lot of municipalities are unable or cannot give priority to them. The advantage of having a professional neutral law was that at least there were no professionals out there. I also fear the new law change because the music therapists are going to become a part of the health professionals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1849	I felt the need to take the word, because I feel that someone is not completely different from the different terms here. Someone has mentioned it, but I can repeat it: Music therapy is a profession, which requires master's education. It's very important to establish it. Just as the nurse is attached to the nursing profession, so the music therapist is also a professional practitioner of a profession. The representative Wilhelmsen Trøen spoke of music therapists being able to teach people how to use music therapy. Perhaps it was a delay. Music therapists will work directly against patients and users, but it is very important that both employees, volunteers and others can contribute to cultural activities and other related activities in the face of patients, in the face of users, in the face of people who also need to follow it up, and get those experiences in their lives. I've been a musician of professionalism for almost all my life. I've been traveling around institutions with what today -- or maybe yesterday -- would be called the cultural walking stick, i.e. with professional concerts where the people you meet meet meet you like an audience, maybe they've dressed well, maybe they've been especially happy that someone from the outside comes. Then I've also been with and gripped by the guitar when I've been visiting someone, and I've had songs with users and patients. There's something else left over. But it's not about professional music therapy any of the parts. So being a professional performer in a meeting with an audience that might live in an institution, and being active with a lot of people and singing, reading or talking, so having a widely cultural activity with people, is something quite unique – and not music therapy. I think it's very important to be aware of the different terms here. Then I want to say that not everyone is employed at an institution, who can go on singing neither with nor for those who live there. I think for my part I would get caught up in it. On the other hand, there are very many who can go into the good conversation, be with, read and find other entrances to touching people culturally, artistically, spiritually, which we all need, and which are important to us from cradle to grave. Now let's agree on that, but let's also use the terms, and let's try to find a proper understanding of what we're talking about right now. And then I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important interpellant on an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1866	Thank you for a good debate. I knew that the interest in music therapy was present among all parties in the committee. I would like to reiterate that there is a clear difference in the need for specialist health care and primary health care in the use of music therapists. Primary health care is built up in a completely different way, where they will treat some heavy patients, but above all provide guidance to other health professionals, relatives and volunteers. No one has said that this is the only miracle cure. But what's unique is that there's a relatively new way to think about it, and then everyone knows that it takes a lot to implement new knowledge, but it's knowledge-based, which many people have been involved in. Music is so strong when used correctly, but it is also very strong if used incorrectly. So having skilled music therapists within reach, it's the ones who do the job where you get so close to, is absolutely crucial. So I want to repeat that our health care system is based on the principle of an equivalent offer. That's about. 300 music therapists today, most of them work in the care of the elderly. Mental protection and drug treatment are now being built up. That's about. 20 in mental health protection and a handful in drug treatment. If we're going to be able to get enough music therapists, we're going to have to do something about our educational capacity. And there's an increasing interest in looking this way. We should also look at how to implement a new profession and new knowledge out there. So we should have more research, more of the practical research — how this works out. We're going to follow up this case during the fall, not least by visiting the institutions that have come the farthest in the field, as I mentioned in the interpellation. I hope to get more of them on the committee too. Thank you for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1883	Thank you for a good debate. It shows that there is a broad commitment to this therapy form in Stortinget. Just a few short comments: It is quite right that this government aims to reverse the Professional Neutral Local Health Service Act and introduce legal requirements for core competences in municipal health and care services. But when the representative Toppe makes it appear to be a threat to the music therapists, it's quite amazing. Music therapists will not least need to have good and professional cooperation with other health professionals. The situation of music therapists does not make it easier for them to cooperate with, for example: are unskilled. It is such that there is some form of core competence in the municipal health and care services that this government believes is necessary to be present in all municipalities. The representative Knutsen took the floor because she believes that in the debate there had been confusion about the concepts. I do not agree with that. If there was confusion, the representative helped Knutsen's posts to complete that confusion. Music therapy is not a profession, it's a form of therapy. But being a music therapist is a profession. And the music therapist, who was also involved in the interpellant, will have a task of guiding others in the ministry to use music therapy integrated into the ministry. So music therapist as a professional is important, but they're not in a situation where they're the only ones who can do music therapy. It is quite right that having a culture and having a good quality entertainment in the care service is something else. We had a broad discussion about that yesterday. It is also something that municipalities have the opportunity to make good use of their own resources, but also through the money that the county councils distribute to the cultural walking stick. It's something else, but it's also important. Using music as therapy also for the care and care of municipal care services has strengthened this government’s ability to provide further training in that field to those who work in the services. But I think what we can all agree on, as I see it, is that music is important in all areas of life either by professional or non-professional, and that being part of a culture is an important part of our lives. Sometimes it is also an important form of therapy, which is documented to provide health benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1898	It was a pleasant end to the debate on case no. Eight!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1912	The Ministry of Climate and Environment proposes in its proposal amendments to the Law of 13 March 1981 No. 6 on the protection against pollution and on waste, four-unit law § 48 a. The amendment means that the Pollution Act § 32 a is covered by the State supervision under the Pollution Act § 48 a. After the entry into force of paragraph 48(a), a need has been identified for the pollution laws of § 32(a) to be included in the supervisory secret of § 48(a). As indicated in the proposition, it has not been considered necessary to send the amendment link to Section 48(a) on a public hearing. The Committee refers to the legislative proposal itself in the proposal, and in the case of an open incurrency, the amendment takes a different part in the proposal for Section 48(a) and is not similar to the second paragraph of Section 48. The Committee feels that, of course, it has not been the intention to amend the second paragraph of Paragraph 48. There is a joint committee behind the setting and proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1923	The size has today been asked to take a decision on the law amending the pollution law relating to the supervision of municipalities. In its position, the Municipal and Management Committee has followed the government's proposal to amend the pollution law § 48a. The change implies that the supervision of local authorities' obligations under Section 32(a) of the Pollution Act is to be carried out in accordance with the common procedural rules of the Local Government Act on the handling, complaint and use of instruments. In this way, the supervision of municipal pollution obligations will be carried out collectively under the municipal law. In accordance with Section 20-6 of the pollution regulation, the municipality has an obligation to draw up a common waste plan for ports in the municipality which mainly receive waste from recreational boats. According to the same provision, the municipality also has an obligation to provide an overview of all ports within the municipality. The amendment of the law implies that, in accordance with the municipal law, Chapter 10(A), the County State is allowed to oblige the municipalities to fulfil their obligations, which may help to ensure the legal fulfilment of the local authority's obligations in this area of waste. The amendment of the law implies that, in accordance with the municipal law, Chapter 10(A) of the Act, the County State is allowed to oblige the municipalities to rectify conditions that are contrary to the law. The proposal is only of a procedural nature and will therefore have neither administrative nor financial implications.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1936	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1950	The first speaker is Martin Kolberg. - No, I'm fine. Is there anyone who wants the word to the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1955	I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1960	I'm sorry. Gunvor Eldegard will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1963	Thank you, President! Now I'm not the spokesperson for the matter, and I was actually going to show some to his post as well. But at least I'm going to say on behalf of the Labour Party – There came the case spokesperson! It is true that the case spoke first, and then I would like to go down and come up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1972	Yeah, we can fix it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1975	Yes, and then I'll come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e1980	We get to deviate from the usual politeness that the ladies have the rank. But then there's going to be an increase in the program! Deferred consumption is saving. Pre-empted consumption is a liability. It's a little simple to say about capital building on the one hand, and debtting on the other. There are a number of rather interesting issues that this management report contains. The report highlights some of the significant risks arising from the build-up of debt for future municipal autonomy and freedom of action. So you could say that there are a lot of companies and organizations that experience. The danger here is that municipalities are very central to the production of welfare services. A weakened economy could also threaten the ability of municipalities to maintain a good, stable and predictable level of service for their citizens. So there are realities behind these numbers, realities behind these diagrams. We have a quite similar attitude from the committee. Of course, there are some special points, but I think we are wise to note the broad consensus that lies in the committee's position. The Committee has noted that the interest-exposed part of the local debt has increased from 9 pst. of revenue in 2006 to a total of 30 pst. in 2013. While gross operating expenditure has increased by 54 pst, net borrowing debt has increased by 97 pst. during the same period. Much of the growth in activity is due to state investment, in particular: sectors of growth, care for the elderly and infrastructure. Investments have been largely financed by loans. The Committee shares one point: the majority have found reasons to point out that some of the debt-building issues are far too favourable — at least in the short term — interest-rate compensation schemes and escalation plans, where the State is good at stimulating the start-up of programmes but does not always take full responsibility for funding throughout the action period. It is a well-known phenomenon, at least from a local government perspective. The Committee shares the situation description given by the pension obligations and recalls that the ability of municipalities to invest precisely in current operating income flows is weakened when pension technical deficits that are not included in municipal planning are still to be covered. The Committee has also noted that the overall repayment time for loans is increasing, and of course it is also a temptation for municipalities to be able to shift larger parts of the debt in front of them. At the same time, increased revenue and low interest rates have made debt easier to bear during low interest rates, but it has in turn stimulated increased foreign financing of development tasks. We've also had it look like there's a built-in dynamics for debt accumulation when the cost of capital represents an accepted share of the income. The decline in interest rates means that the burden on interest rates is falling, but the ability to bear more debt is increasing. This means that the debt burden could provide a higher basis for calculating interest expenditure when interest rates start to rise later. The historical experience is just that they do it. In such a process, the potential to offset debts will be limited, payments will have to be made, and this will create unpleasant surprises and perhaps also reductions in municipal ordinary welfare services at a later stage. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the description of the local government debt situation distinguishes between interest-exposed debt and non-interest-exposed debt, with loans raised for investments in the so-called fee-funded and self-financing agencies – in the case of water, sewerage and renovation – being considered almost unproblematic. But, of course, for citizens, the possibility of charging these fees also includes the possibility to print an increased fee a potential additional cost on the day it becomes necessary. From a local government point of view, it can be a comfort that some of the debt is not so sensitive to interest rate rises, but it is because you have some agencies where you can roll the increased capital costs directly over to consumers. From a consumer point of view, both of these sources contain opportunities for increased expenditure. The Committee welcomes the broad review of the local government's debt situation, broken down by municipality types and trends described in the report. It provides the basis for too much learning and a lot of reflections. We have also come to the conclusion that it is appropriate to recall in this context that the State has a significant responsibility for the economic development of the municipalities. Some of the culprits in municipalities can also be many good wishes and partly uncoordinated sectoral requests from just state policy areas. We point out that the Stortinget as the granting authority will have a responsibility for a comprehensive policy for the municipal sector. The Committee has also pointed out unanimously that when state-dictated solutions to the municipalities contribute to the interweaving of government governance ambitions with local priorities, attitudes may arise where the municipality does not fully assume its local responsibility, when the local government also has the feeling that it does not have an impact on its priorities but sees itself as the operator of the state. In our current legislation, a municipality cannot be bankrupt, which means that the state as the last resort is always behind its municipalities. It could also creep into the subconsciousness of many local authorities – if we imagine for a moment that they have a common consciousness. One cannot say that it affects their accountability that the debt burden is not so dangerous – the development of debt build-up is not so problematic, because it is not really the bank that you borrow from, but the state. It is the State that, in many contexts, when it really comes to the harsh realities, will be the ‘lander of last resort’. The Committee has also compiled a description of the fact that the build-up of debt cannot be seen in isolation from the management of other assets by the municipality, and by that we mean all the other values that municipalities have in addition to bank deposits. It may be buildings, structures, infrastructure, etc. While it makes sense to limit the purpose of borrowing by failing, in principle, to borrow for current operations, it would be of at least equal importance for the economic sustainability of the municipality that they have active asset management. This means that the economic sustainability of the municipality also depends on the fact that buildings and structures do not fall due. When such assets are not maintained at the rate of wear, a maintenance seat shall be created. The Committee has taken note unanimously of the fact that the KS’s own estimate for the maintenance run is 125 billion. kr for municipal buildings, between 75 and 100 billion. kr for the roads and a grosser estimate for the water and sewerage sector of 100 billion. kr. 30-40 pst. annual investments in buildings are related to maintenance. The Committee also takes the view – and underlines – that it can indicate a system error when, according to the same source, KS, it is claimed that it is used 3 to 4 billion. kr too little each year for value-reserving maintenance. The current situation is characterised by the fact that municipalities are replacing current maintenance, which is a burden on the operation, with investments that can be financed. To illustrate this a little bit popular and a little bit too rough, maybe: you're waiting for a school building to wear down, so it has to be demolished, and then you can enjoy building a whole new one, while most of us as private owners might want to have the experience that you can keep your real house longer by a systematic and continuous maintenance. The majority of the committee – and here we have separated a little layer with the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, so here is the majority's view that I express as the case-rapporteur – questions the current accounting principles of the local government sector to a sufficient degree provide the local government with transparency, discipline and decision support for the good management of the assets. A significant help would have been if the bottom line of the accounts had been affected by the amount of depreciation. The current budgetary and accounting system is financially oriented, with focus on working capital and its changes and movements — not equity. The equity is, as we all know, assets less liabilities, which will correspond to the property concept of a private enterprise or household. The same majority questions whether both financial orientation and asset conservation are adequately addressed in today’s legislation or whether major changes are required. The members who are not in this majority opinion will, of course, be able to explain their views in more detail. The Committee takes note of the recommendations of the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation implements information measures on the burden of debt to local government through plans and budgets, as well as assessments of the development of State resources in the same direction. However, the Committee would stress to the Ministry the recommendation to assess whether the provisions of the Local Government Act adequately contribute to ensuring the economic sustainability of the local government's indebtedness. We are familiar with the investigative activities of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and hope that there will also be some inspiration and guidance in the majority comments of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2026	Then I can thank the President-in-Office for his work too! The National Audit Office has examined borrowings to municipalities and the burden of debt. As the case-speaker said, the Committee is largely in agreement with the comments – we have some minor disagreements. Local authorities borrow money when investing e.g. in new schools, in new hospitals, in old-age housing, etc. When the municipality goes out and borrows money, it is for the welfare services that the municipality is charged. Municipalities must have schools where there is room for all students, and municipalities must have hospitals, so that we are able to take care of our elderly when they need it. And municipalities have to build housing for people with special needs, e.g. people with double diagnosis before rush and psychiatry. So there are usually good reasons why the municipality takes up debt. Nevertheless, it is alarming that every sixth municipality in 2013 had a combination of high debt and low economic space. In addition, there is a risk that the number of municipalities with a small resilient debt burden will increase. Local government in the municipalities with the highest level of debt is also provided with little information about the debt burden in the central governance documents. Of course, it is the responsibility of the local government to ask for proper information, so that they make the right decisions, but they depend on good information from the councillor. Most people trust the documents they receive. It is possible that this should be part of KS's default training — how to look for the right information and what to ask for. Most populaces are not economists, nor should they be. Therefore, it is so important that what comes from the administration should be understandable to all. It is also stated in the report of the National Audit Office that County Council's guidance and control have little effect on the financial viability of municipalities' debt burden. To that end, I must say that most local government will think that once the State has approved the budget – yes, it is. In addition, the National Audit Office has pointed out that the use of the tools of the Ministry of Local Affairs is to a small extent geared towards following up municipalities that can develop a small amount of resilient indebtedness. It appears that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has not obtained sufficient information on the functioning of the municipal governance documents. Without adequate knowledge, the Ministry cannot discharge its responsibility for the functioning of the management documents. Many highly indebted municipalities receive little information about the debt burden through the statutory financial plan, annual budget and annual report. The National Audit Service believes that there is a need for government initiatives to ensure adequate quality in the central municipal governance documents. The municipal minister writes that he has looked down a selection to review the municipality, including the economic rules, and he wants to wait for the setting from the selection. In this context, it is important to point out that the whole Committee of the Notes stresses that the selection should be made aware of the Riksrevision's recommendations before the completion of the work. We also have a note about the hidden debt that is in parts of Kommune-Noreg. There are some so-called OPS projects, public-private cooperation, and solutions such as: ownership can be transferred to companies or foundations, but where the municipality is nevertheless financially responsible. As I said in the introduction, it is alarming that the debt burden in some municipalities is too high. This may result in poorer built-in services. But the situation won't be better if you change the accounting principle. Overall, the solution is a better local economy. That's actually what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2052	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for his work on the matter and a good proposal for the Stortinget. I think it is very good that the Riksrevision addresses this issue. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to see whether the burden on local authorities’ debt is economically sustainable. The background for this investigation is that the level of debt in municipalities has increased sharply in the last ten years, which is the period during which the Riksrevision has seen, i.e. 2004–2013. During the survey period, the gross operating costs of municipalities have increased by 54 p.m., while the loan debt has increased by 97 p.m. over the same period. Once the investments have been financed to such an extent, and one has also seen much stronger growth in debt financing than the growth in the level of operation of municipalities, the action space in the disposals of municipalities is weakened, although some debt is interest-rate and rebate-compensated partly by direct payments by residents and businesses, but primarily by the water, sewerage and renovation sectors. It has long been an objective that municipalities should achieve a net operating surplus of 3 pst. to have an ability to, among others: to co-finance their borrowings or to take at least the main part of the financing. In recent times, it has been more difficult to achieve the objective of desired net operating result, and for many municipalities, unfortunately, also up-to-date operational fund reserves have been tapped to establish new measures. In recent years, municipalities have been able to benefit from the fact that the level of interest rates has fallen to a level that one could dream of just a few years ago. This has probably led to the temptation to launch new, large investments in the absorption of more debt, where one may not have always considered sufficiently the future risk of interest rate increase and thus large additional costs of interest cost. When new reforms and measures to be implemented in municipalities are introduced from the state side, infrastructure measures are often needed, which in turn generate financing needs and thus, most often, new borrowings. Local authorities have often pointed out that new measures are not fully financed by the State and some of the new costs are assumed to be covered by the municipalities themselves. Unfortunately, when the freedom of action of municipalities is reduced, while new operational measures are to be financed, it is all too often so that the maintenance item for the infrastructure of municipalities becomes the balancing item. Thus, a negative trend is emerging in which one will eventually have to take a complete and costly loan-funded rehabilitation of the infrastructure or build new ones. Maintenance provision in the municipal sector, both for the ordinary infrastructure mass of municipalities and in the VAR sector, is at present very high, and there is a danger that this will continue to be a negative development if one is unable to establish a good enough understanding of the relationship between investment in the infrastructure and the maintenance of its value. Sometimes it may be desirable for a municipality to join the county council in split layers about the establishment of a missing parcel on an intended part of the county road. Such co-financing may also be a requirement of the county to start the project at all. As this is a county road, only the county can raise loans for the development of the road, while the municipality is forced to charge the operating budget because it is not allowed to finance loans on the property of another owner. The Progress Party shares the comments of the National Audit Office that there is a need for measures that can contribute to a more sustainable debt burden, so that municipalities can serve the debt in the short and long term without having an impact on the provision of services for current and future residents, and we end up with the National Audit Office’s proposals for action. In particular, the final point of the Riksrevision is to assess whether the provisions of the Local Government Act adequately contribute to ensuring that the debt burden on municipalities is economically sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2075	I would like to thank the National Audit Office for having addressed this question. It's important, and it's time to do it. It is a report that shows what is a general development in Norway. It is not only the local government sector that is developing with increasing levels of debt, but it is in general. It makes sense that when the level of interest rates is so low and real incomes, and thus the real tax is so high, one is encouraged to act on one – I would say – abnormal way within our mixed economy. One is inspired to live in advance at a time when one in the historical context has more than enough income to finance the past. So we're in a very demanding situation because we have free movement of capital. When you have free capital movements, and the situation in Norway is completely different economically from what it is in the countries around us, we come in the situation that we need to have a low interest rate not to get too high a krona, which triggers a loan-funded demand in Norway that is unreasonably high. This also spreads to the municipal sector. As the National Audit Office describes, such developments could present future hazards in terms of reduced financial freedom for municipalities and the equivalent, weakening full well-being services in the future when – and I would stress it – interest rates and real income increases change. The rapporteur described the fact in the report in a clear way. The current session has a session starting at 9 pst. from the revenue in 2006 to 30 p.m. in 2013 in the case of municipalities, and it has occurred at a time when gross operating expenditure has increased by only 54 pst, while net borrowing debt has increased by 97 pst. The centre party is involved in a majority comment, where one points out that schemes such as interest-rate compensation schemes and escalation plans where the State stimulates the launch of measures without fully assuming financial co-responsibility for the continuation of the schemes are a challenge. I would say that there is a lot of good about the rule of action, but this is an example of how the Storting operates within the framework of the rule of action, where one goes into such schemes that in the short term the costors of the municipalities die by initiating reforms, but the real economic impact of such reforms as the rule of action should limit is still there. So this is a rash of weaknesses in the rule of action, which is what everyone is familiar with. The rapporteur also said that the repayment period for loans has increased, and that municipalities are encouraged to push larger parts of the debt ahead of them. Yeah, that's what's the sign of time and the solution of time. It's generally the solution of time, it's not a particular value conservative principle, but it's a principle that is linked to the economic liberalism in which we live – I'm going a bit far, but it's the culture that we're talking about here. It is a unanimous committee that says that there is an embedded dynamics for debt accumulation when the cost of capital represents such an accepted share of revenue. The Central Party is also involved in a comment on the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, that they must try to have overall responsibility in terms of what the majority of the Committee writes about uncoordinated State sector interests with an inherent desire for legislative and regulatory regulation in order to impose minimum standards and standard requirements. This is a dilemma. It's a very big dilemma what to attach to regulations, and what minimum standards to have. In some areas it's necessary to have it, but I think what's in the comment from the majority here is that one should have a greater focus to do so. So there's going to be a separate eternal reason to go into it. It's quite essential that one does that, because one has very easy for a rights-holders, regulators, things from the Storting far beyond what in the sum and in the long term is right and necessary. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Local Affairs coordinate this area. Another area is debt, and it cannot be seen independently of the assets of the debtor. All members of the Committee agree that there should be a clear distinction between the inclusion of debt in investments and the coverage of operations in current receipts. But what we see developing is that the current expenditure in some municipalities is increasingly linked to the payment of rent so that the municipality can use the construction and facilities of others to run municipal activities. In this way, the real financial obligations of the municipalities are hidden. We can have municipalities that have a significant loan debt, but that own their buildings and their facilities. Then we have municipalities that have a significant loan debt and also rent a significant part of their constructions, and then the bond and liabilities are much bigger. In my experience, it seems that the right-hand-controlled municipalities have a greater share of the rentals of the buildings and installations they need, and therefore the financial liabilities are larger. One has some Right-Handed municipalities that largely live in advance by entering such constellations, and it is essential that the department is made visible in the overviews that they need to make in order to be able to keep track of the situation. Otherwise, there is a review of the budgetary and accounting systems involved in the setting. There I would like to stress that accounting policies and accounting systems themselves will not improve maintenance. It is not the accounting systems that improve maintenance, it is the policy decisions. However, it is quite obvious that the accounting systems and the complementary systems presented to the local government can make it clear how the maintenance is going, and in this area it is important that the Ministry of Local Affairs is more offensive, because we see a lot of examples of how maintenance is being pinched with the consequence that it becomes a decay that involves very large costs. I am therefore very pleased with the comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV that it is a mistake that business accounts with depreciation provide better maintenance in the municipal sector, and that one should do this through a change in the accounting system. No, this is a question of political opinion. It is a question of making the necessary appropriations visible each year for the maintenance of the assets, and in that area one has to do more to make it visible that there is a maintenance set-up that is significant in relation to the running of the municipalities. In the end, I would just like to say to the municipal minister that it is important for the ministry to follow closely, with statistics on the level of debt in relation to the incomes of the municipalities, but also that the municipal ministry obtains overviews showing the ownership of buildings and facilities used by municipal activity. The costs of, for example, rental prices for municipal activity not related to 100 pst. municipal-owned construction, rather than providing the necessary whole, and here it is developing in some municipalities – as I have had in the past – that there are so many obligations that are inherent in rental prices, that it must be part of the whole, and there are more and more counties that show a false picture because real assets to the local government's debts are so different.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2102	Let me first say that I think it is good that the Riksrevision addresses the issue of debt development in the municipal sector, and it is important that this issue is also discussed in Stortinget. I have read both the Riksrevision's assessments and the decision of the Control Committee. I take note of the points of view that have been made, and I also share the assessments that have been made. I am pleased that the Control Committee points out that there are different aspects that contribute to the build-up of debt in the municipalities, and that it is particularly important that both government and government consider these issues. It is obvious that there are local conditions and local inequalities that may affect leverage, but the expectations, the impositions and the various incentive schemes that we set up nationally also contribute, of course, to increasing the level of debt in municipalities. In recent years, there has been a strong focus on the need to expand kindergartens, build new schools, build new swimming pools and expand better coverage in the care of the elderly. This, of course, contributes to increased debt in many municipalities. We also know that there is a wide variation in the level of debt between municipalities, and it cannot be excluded that some municipalities have such high debts that any increase in interest rates may affect the service provision, as the Riksrevision also points out. However, it is also important to stress that this has to do not only with the degree of indebtedness, but also with the extent to which the municipality has its interest-bearing assets, the extent to which it has committed the interest rate, the amount of previous years' income set aside, the operating space in which the municipality operates and the population and income growth expected in the future, just to mention something. Higher liabilities reflect the high level of investment that the municipality has had in recent years. In many cases, increased debt may be sensible and necessary to improve the provision of services to the population or to expand capacity in line with population development and the change in age composition. However, it does not remove the fact, as the Control Committee also stresses, that municipalities must have control of their financial situation and that there is no need to promise more than what can be carried over a longer period of time. Part of local government debt also needs to be seen in the light of state incentive schemes for investment, such as interest-rate compensation schemes and investment grants, and also reflects a desired government policy. I am pleased that this is also reflected and assessed in the position of the Control Committee. Municipalities seem to be able to make good use of interest and repayments on the loans they have. The number of municipalities in economic imbalances registered in ROBEK is at a low level compared to previous years, about 50 municipalities at the end of May 2015. I also want to show that there is about half of the total local government debt of well over 400 billion. kr which is covered in whole or in part by others and does not charge the municipal budgets. Some are passed on to individuals and companies, which is related to the school and church interest compensation scheme, where the government covers interest expenses. Part of the local government's debt therefore reflects a desired policy on the part of the state, and something is related to services financed by the citizens' fees, primarily related to the VAR region. The National Audit Office’s recommendations are that the Ministry should assess whether the legislation and the State’s instruments are sufficient to ensure that the level of debt of municipalities is maintained at a sustainable level. It is currently, as the control committee also refers to, a review of the municipal law. The economic provisions of the municipal law, to which the National Audit Office's recommendations relate, will be a central element of this work. This will include, inter alia: include the rules on financial planning, budgeting, investigation and reporting to the local government, the rules on borrowing, borrowing and financial management and the rules on State control and approval of financial commitments — many of the issues raised by the representative Lundtigen and Gunvor Eldegard in their contributions. I believe it would be appropriate to await any action until the sample has completed its work. Adjustments from the sample shall be made by the end of the current year. Finally, let me point out that, in its position, the Control Committee asks the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation to pass on the views of the National Audit Office to the Committee. We will, of course, do that, and of course we will also pass on the views expressed in the position of the control committee so that the committee can take it into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2123	As it is clear, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on Control and Constitution in this matter, and I refer here to both the statements made by the rapporteur and by Mr Eldegard. I just felt the need and the desire, I want to say, to give some consideration. It's quite right, as the Council of State said now, and as we say in our attitude, that there are many different conditions that create the debt situation that is in the municipalities. What I think is absolutely right to say, across all party divisions and on behalf of our colleagues in the local government, is that no one is raising loans that they do not perceive to be necessary. It makes me think of the idea that I have experienced many times after a long political life, and that is also across the colours of governments, that there is a fundamental disagreement between Kommune-Norge on the one hand and the State, read the Ministry of Finance, on the other hand about what is the need in the municipalities for financial support and transfers from the state. It's constant. This is a major unsolved issue in Norwegian politics and the Norwegian economy and administration that we are in that situation, and – once again across party divisions – that we have a debt burden in the municipalities that is at least 200 billion. NOK if we are to be kind – then we are very kind. Then I lean on what the Council of State just said when it was about the state's commitment to the rest. It's a big cross of thought. What is easy for us to say in this Chamber, and as the Council of State also said, and I have a little comment on that, is that it is nevertheless the case that the municipalities are responsible for operating financially well. It's hard to get our municipal politicians to accept as a basic premise. We shall not do anything else in this matter except to control and only have an opinion as to why it has become so. The setting points, as shown by many speakers, but nevertheless this is where the problem is. I feel convinced of that. It is not that some municipalities do not want to meet the wishes of the citizen or what is imposed on them by decision in this room, but the money is not there to a sufficient extent. As a result, a number of municipalities make a few curvatures that I would like to ask the Council of State – I kept saying if he had profit and time today – could comment, and that is the following, which the representative Lundtigen pointed out: Some municipalities not only push the debt in front of them, but they try to hide it. I'm not going to name municipalities now, but I know municipalities, to use such an expression, which transfers essential parts of their loans to companies, which they are rightfully owners of, but which nevertheless do not come into the municipal accounts – so they trick with it. They do because they see that if they don't, they break municipal law. It's a challenge that I think someone should be careful not to be allowed to break. Neither is this participative – I stress it. This must not be allowed to break, because then it can hide something that we will encounter with great force later on. The representative of Tetzschner is right in his basic view: at last, the state is responsible, of course, because we cannot bankrupt the municipalities. Everyone knows that. So there Tetzschner is absolutely right. Therefore, it is important that the current government is also very aware of the challenge of trying to conceal expenditure. The second is also conscious decisions. I want to join the representative Tetzschner said on that point. That's what's related to these companies that you kind of take out and that's to be funded by the citizens. It's the same story associated with it. They don't do it out of will, Councillor — said through the President — they do it because they're forced to do it, as they feel locally. I think that if this room had been full of rapporteurs now, they would have all nodded — everyone would have nodded. So you might say, but that's the exceptions, sometimes the local government takes decisions that they shouldn't have taken from a sound financial point of view. From here to Drammen lies the cultural houses as pearls on a string. I'm for culture, but there's questions about whether they have to lie like pearls on a string! I'm not sure about that – especially when the loan amount in part of those municipalities is actually 90 pst. of the revenue. I'm just saying I'm unsure of it. I'm sure I'll be able to get some criticism for that afterwards, but I can take it! There are some dispositions a few times that contribute to this situation that we are discussing in the hall today – sometimes it is, but not always. The main image is like I'm saying. It will be a major challenge for all governments, for all the majority of the population in the coming years, to contribute to sustainable economic development in our municipalities. We do not yet fully know what the pension costs will represent. They usually come very surprising to most of the majority in this room -- what they actually mean. They're lying there as a hidden challenge. When a rich municipality like Lier, in which I live, decides to stop paying dividends and just pay interest, it tells a little bit about the situation we are in in many municipalities. It's serious. That is why this treatment here is of great importance. It is good that the Council of State says that he will take this with him to the sample that is now in particular responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2144	The representative Martin Kolberg wondered if the Council had any surplus and time to comment on a few more issues. I can at least confirm that the Council of State has a surplus. I appreciate the paradoxes that Martin Kolberg's representative brings up in relation to the relationship between state and municipalities. It is quite clear that both the expectations of municipal politicians and the expectations of the inhabitants exceed the economic framework. I have to say that in general, I am impressed with the ability of local politicians both to prioritise and to think in the long term. But it is quite obvious that we, who represent the national level, must be very aware that the expectations we turn up are going to be paid by the municipalities. If we turn up expectations higher than the limits that we give the municipalities, then the municipalities are the ones that get the challenge. I am pleased that this discussion is being discussed. It is important that it is taken widely by several parties, and that we should be aware that both expectations and the requirements and requirements we impose on the municipalities must also be financed in the long run. What I did, on the other hand, stumbled a little over, was Martin Kolberg's formulations around the municipalities' desire to hide or contract debts. That's no reason. With regard to the use of public-private cooperation, we have had a review of the use of OPS, and what is very clear from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is using OPS, you have to know what to do. It requires significant competence in the municipality when ordering from suppliers not only construction but also operations over several years. OPS has some challenges that you need to be aware of, but it also has some advantages. The fact that a builder is responsible not only for building but also for operating in the long term promotes innovation and long-term thinking in the project, and it also guarantees the municipality's maintenance. When we look at the lack of maintenance on many municipal buildings, it also has some obvious benefits. But let me just briefly quote from the working group report Debt Development in the local government sector, which was published in April 2015, where the question of use of OPS has just been addressed and how to book it. It says: «long-term leases are to be classified as long-term liabilities in the local government balance sheets according to the accounting standard of the Leniency Association, and they must be charged with a deduction and an interest component in the municipal operating accounts.» The accounting is therefore the same as for ordinary borrowings and is included in long-term liabilities in the municipal balance sheet. This means that when using OPS, this must also be shown as a long-term liability. Then it is quite obvious, as many have pointed out, that it is important that local politicians are given good information and the opportunity to engage in debt-building and commitments in a longer-term perspective. It is one of the issues that is also being considered in the sample we are now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2173	Before the Storting goes to voting, there is a communication from the Group of the Progressive Alliance that the granted leave of the representative Tor André Johnsen from 4 June to 8 June is changed to sickness leave from 4 June and until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2227	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 2 and 3 from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, is withdrawn. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. Two sounds. ‘The government is asked to submit a national strategy and financial plan for personalised medicine in Norway at the latest in the context of the 2016 state budget.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government asks that the strategy for personalised medicine, in line with the technical recommendations, include a commitment to education and competence development, the establishment of a national, de-identified database on genetic variations, the construction of technology, technology cooperation and national professional networks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2260	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to ensure equal access to information on different clinical studies in Norway for patients, permanent doctors and other health professionals.’ The Greens have been alerted to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2293	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Left. The proposals are being voted on. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to allow trials of heroin-assisted treatment for the very heaviest users who have not benefited from other medical treatments.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the injection room regulation to allow different routes of administration than injection and drugs other than heroin.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2329	The Socialist Left and the Greens have also announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2347	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2380	A total of 19 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 3-7, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 8, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposals No. 9-19, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-19, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that regional health companies finance the development of integrated post-protection programmes in public and non-profit services.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that each patient receives a follow-up from the local health service that accompanies the patient through protection, treatment and after protection.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make the drug programme with judicial control permanent and nationwide.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the place of residence with follow-up is defined as part of the drug addict treatment system and that drug addicts are offered housing in permanent dwellings.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the necessary legislation and permits are put in place to ensure that the drugs needed to ensure adequate treatment for all drug addicts are available, including heroin where it produces the best results.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to review and document the impact of current drug policies.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to replace fines and prisons as penalties for the use and possession of user doses with responses aimed at improving health and rehabilitation.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is requesting medical assistance to be rehabilitated to ensure that the rehabilitation part of the LAR is properly maintained for all participants in the programme.’ [[LAR]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review available treatment services in order to examine whether the diversity of supply is large enough.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate all aspects of drug addiction treatment.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that user rooms are established in all major cities, as well as extending the opening hours of such services and providing adequate health professionals.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2469	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in the escalating plan for the drug field to strengthen the ability of municipalities to give priority to care and treatment, review the LAR scheme and improve the quality of LAR services and ensure a diversity of treatment services, including low-threshold measures and enhanced aftercare.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2486	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-7, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure the sound and professional treatment of applications for trial schemes and new treatments in the drug services.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to facilitate the smoking of heroin by drug addicts in what is today called injection rooms.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that drug addicts are informed that smoking is less harmful than injecting, and that it is facilitated by, for example, the provision of drug equipment and the necessary guidance.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to help finance lowthreshold, voluntary relief work in drug settings, such as the provision of safe user equipment and ascorbic acid.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure long-term support for street anti-drug measures that provide security and better health for drug addicts.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2526	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the use of abstinences in the field of drugs and mental health and to propose a framework for the resolution of abstinences for the heaviest addicts.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2543	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in the escalating plan for the drug field to ensure that, as a reaction form, drug contracts can be further developed and offered to people with drug problems throughout the country, as an alternative to prosecution and endorsement in the criminal record.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2682	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2692	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2700	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to bring forward its own case for the Storting on the organisation and conditions of the future system of specialist recognition and training of healthcare specialists before a new scheme enters into force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2793	It is contested first by I, § 51. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2808	It goes over the rest of I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2818	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2828	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 7 and 8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2875	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2885	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-04.ana.ud2331e2913	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
