ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e24	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, has taken the seat. The Workers' Group has requested a welfare permit from the representative Kåre Simensen on 17 and 18 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Ingarill Olsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e47	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e61	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, a total speaking time of 10 minutes is given to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given after submissions by the main figures of the parties and six lines of response by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e74	‘When darkness has sunk the sea’, and the Advent season is here, it is time for the main debates, appropriations and priorities of the budget for the next year. It's now that we're really going to show what we stand for, whether our policy helps people to say, 'It's going to be fun.' Unfortunately, it goes the other way. Unemployment in Norway is the highest in 22 years. Pessimism is increasing in industry, the Nordics experience a severe decline in purchasing power due to weaker crowns, and the use of oil money is increasing sharply. We were to have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, said Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. A similar ambition is not expressed by the Right Party Government. We are no longer a ‘sunground country’. At the same time, there is no lack of money. In the submitted budget, oil dependence is greatly increased. We've spent more oil money in three years under the Right and Advance Party than the red-green government spent on eight. It could have provided a budget where the government really invested in knowledge, took the fight against school dropout seriously, and realized a school where all children can succeed. One would think that at the budget conference, in such a situation, the school took the ‘say home today’. One would think that investing in places of study, knowledge and competence was the way to conversion and the answer to increased unemployment. Instead, the government chooses to let tens of thousands of young people go ‘365 off’. Even in a budget dripping with oil money, the Minister of Knowledge does not have the power to get a single big stake in the field of school – what was previously one of the Right Fans' sakes. This is one of the least ambitious and most debilitating knowledge budgets for primary education School-Norway has seen for a long time. If you sum up the new measures in the government’s initial training proposal, the amount is about 200 million. kr. The right-hand previous taboo has been defrosted by 0.83 pst. of the increase in the use of oil money. I don't doubt that there are people in the government who are busy with school. But those who decide on the budget are definitely not among them. This is becoming even more special because the increased allocation to private schools is larger than all the other new investments in school total — 210 million. kr. Even the escalation that has taken place and which has the unanimous support of Stortingen for further training for teachers, the Minister of Knowledge is able to finance it with fresh resources. The cut government has done in the basic education, paying alone for more than the whole increase that has been granted for continuing education. Taking cuts in cultural school hours, fruit and green and housing, the government's cut is over 1.4 billion. kr. The government takes money from the students to pay further education for teachers, and the profits are sent to tax cuts to those who have the most from before. Select a different direction for the working party. We proposed to bet 1.7 billion in our alternative budget. kr more than the government of knowledge. More than a billion of these will be used to enhance initial training. Much is good in Norwegian school, but we also have challenges that need to be solved. One in four students ends before they have completed a secondary education. It makes the dropout one of society's major challenges. We want to spend over 400 million. extra early efforts to provide a good basis for all students through several teachers for the youngest students and a reading, writing and calculating guarantee. The answer to the high school dropout is not found in high school, but in primary school, and one will find it early in primary education. We also want to act in the area that is most important to some thousand students, namely to make the school safe for everyone: stop bullying! The Djupedal Committee has put forward a number of proposals on how this can be done, but for the time being no one has followed up with action. We're going to spend 60 million dollars. kr to get started. We should have had the majority of the Storting on that. For those affected, this is bloody serious. We will strengthen the interest compensation scheme for school buildings and swimming facilities by 25 million. kr, i.e. an increase in the framework of 5 billion. kr. We're prioritizing $15 million. SEK for continuing training in ICT for teachers, and we spend 50 million. kr on continuing education for non-qualified teachers at school. Half of the secondary school students are in the professional field, but only one out of three end up with a letter. We want to spend 265 million. kr more than the government to give the professions a real boost and increase apprenticeship grants, five times more than the government's increase, spending 100 million. NOK 39 million for upgrading equipment and equipment. more on vocational teachers. We also need to fill this with content, and it has to be said that it is on the verge of – yes, in terms that cannot be used in the landfill, when the Minister of Knowledge and the Prime Minister present a so-called teaching promise without mentioning professionals. Tens of thousands of people in school must feel this either unintelligible or a violent deevaluation of their job and their efforts. Also this year, the Left and Christian People's Party will have praise for having drawn the government in the right direction. Their efforts in many areas are about the same as ours: early work, raising the professional professions and improving the community economy, which enables municipalities to raise the school. There is little help in providing ear-marked funds for increasing teacher density between 1 and 4. Steps where the local government budget requires cuts in school budgets and decreases in teaching positions. Something has been passed on to the Left and Christian People's Party, especially on increasing teacher density from 1 to 4. steps. They had got more – and faster – with us, but through the budgetary conciliation they manage to limit the adverse effects of their own government. Neither in higher education is the government's bet impressive. The Council of State has made it its main flagship to merge institutions. From being the party that was previously very concerned with protecting the university concept, we are now moving towards a situation where the difference between universities and colleges disappears. Everyone stays after each part of a university. Merging is the answer to the challenges. The object of the Workers' Party is that the structure itself does not change any of the world's things. The content, quality of research, implementation and quality of education, culture, management and resource use improve institutions. Here the government does very little. On the contrary, the merged institutions now tell us that the government has cut off little or nothing for the processes required by mergers. Together with a critical underfunding of future teacher training and a general framework-led heading of efficiency improvement, higher education institutions may face a difficult situation in 2016. The fact that the government also proposes only a few additional places of study at a time of record unemployment and a high need for skills building is simply incomprehensible. In terms of study places and investment in infrastructure and construction in the university sector, this Council of State has already entered history as one of the weakest. If higher education is to meet the expectations we have, we also have to give them the tools. ‘The one that comes to seawater’. Right-hand tests sometimes appear as ‘teacher’s affection’. However, it does not seem that love is requited. On the contrary, under the Right we have increased conflicts, tougher confrontations and more unrest in the school, both in the department and in the KS. The last concern is about the skills requirements at school. Teachers and organizations are now warning that what was not to be fully implemented in 15 years' time, that is, 2030, is already turning out for today's teachers, contrary to what the council itself informed about the pooling of skills requirements. For this reason, the Workers' Party has taken the initiative to re-examine this matter in Stortinget through a proposal for a representative within the Committee. Like the teachers, we have a number of questions to the Council of State and are already warning that if he cannot give a good answer and has misinformed the Storting about the consequences of his proposals, we will require a change in the decision. However, the matter does not belong to the budgetary procedure today and deserves more thorough treatment than through a bench proposal for which there is room for manoeuvre today. The working party will therefore refuse to conclude today, for example. because the conclusion will then be completely different from that of the tens of thousands of teachers, because the majority of the population have already announced that they support the Council of State. We have to go through this thoroughly. Tens of thousands of teachers are in danger of being separated 15 years before this reform was launched. The Council of State may have provided the Stortinget with incorrect information that this should not have consequences for today's teachers. There are many questions that need to be answered when our Document 8 is being discussed in the new year, and we and the teachers are looking forward to that. With this I address the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e120	The representative Trond Giske has thus addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e125	I notice that the representative Trond Giske uses a lot of words and most of his time to talk down about the government's work. One of the things in the budget proposal proposed by the government is to keep six categories of payoffs for credits. I notice that the Workers' Party is critical that we do not want to reduce the number of categories to four. The working party is critical because we do not follow the recommendations of the finance committee at this point. My question to the representative Giske is: What does the Labour Party really think would be right? Do you have any opinions on this at all, or is it more important to criticize the government? I would like to point out that the Labour Party would like to have four or six categories?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e130	We're not talking about the government, we're just telling what the government has done. That Kristin Vinje interprets it as talking down about the government, telling more about the content of what the government is doing than what we're saying, because there's not one word in what I said in my post, or in what we write in the proposition, in the post or in the setting – about the budget – that's not right. To the extent that it is degrading, it is because the government's policy is not good enough. When it comes to funding higher education, we believe that the government is starting at the wrong end. You should start with: what are the goals you want to achieve? Then we should ask: how are we going to create a financing and a quality structure? For example, notification of quality in education will take place only in 2017. We've wanted a full review of funding to get a transparent and open discussion about how we finance higher education, how we reward quality, and it's hard to conclude at all of these points before we get that review, but it has so far said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e137	The chairperson of the Committee and representative Giske has not just become known as the best friend of the students in the last ten years. He himself sat in a red-green government for two periods, where in the first period they promised to minimum the price adjustment of the study aid, and where in the second period they promised eleven months of study funding. None of these promises were kept. In the matter of the student relations that were dealt with earlier this year, where Gisk voted against the students having a majority in the board, he said that it was not an important matter, and that there was a microscopic difference between whether the students had a majority or not. In the financial debate two weeks ago, the representative spent much of his speaking time telling us that the position was only talking about ‘small things’. I therefore expect that Guess today has just talked about what he sees as big things. Is the reason why the agreement of the cooperation parties on phase-in of 11 months of study support is not mentioned, that there are ‘small things’?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e146	Firstly, what matters most to the students' economy is that they get through the study and get finished in time. It does not only mean NOK 60000 saved in student loans, but it means one year extra income, and it is for some up to half a million. kr per year. Quality in higher education, where 40 pst. Now being delayed, is really the key to better student funding, but there the government does so to say nothing. The second is that they get a place to study, that when youth unemployment is what increases faster, we give them an opportunity to study, we give them an opportunity to acquire skills and qualify for new jobs. That's the other big one. With respect to reporting, the Minister of Knowledge who has increased the student funding most over time was actually signed, as the students in my time as Minister of Knowledge received NOK 10 000 extra in scholarships. Increasing the cost standard roughly as prices rise is not impressive in comparison.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e151	I noticed that the representative Giske said that the Christian People's Party would get a more solid commitment to increasing teacher's density if we cooperated with the Workers' Party. Then I wonder why SV did not get to it after working with the Workers' Party for eight years in government. I also notice that the Workers' Party has now begun to talk about the need for more teachers, that the Workers' Party has begun to talk about the need for a teacher's norm also in school. But in the budget option of the Workers' Party, there is no trace of this, nor is there any earmarked funds for more teachers' positions, even though the party hung on the Christian People's Party's sideline after the conciliation became known. What I'm asking is what is the actual policy of the Workers' Party? Does the Workers' Party want a standard of teacher's density? Is the Workers' Party willing to give priority to increasing teacher density? Or is the party just going to hang on to the breakthrough of the Christian People's Party also in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e158	Yes, we have programmed that we want a standard of teacher density, especially for the youngest students, because that is where the research shows that teacher density and group size are most important. And again, commend the Christian People's Party for getting a pass on earmarked appropriations to teacher's density of 1 to 4. Steps, despite the fact that the Right says teacher density does not work – it is quite impressive, it is almost impossible to make it possible. But basically it's the municipal economy that decides. It helps little to ring at the top if the mountains of economics in the municipalities that decide school bets are weakened. In our time, the municipal budgets increased by 70 billion. kr. Now it's tax cuts that are put first. And it's going to have a Christian People's Party, they almost don't have a crown for tax cuts in their alternate budget. The municipal economy and the school are put ahead of them. That is where I believe that the Christian People's Party could win much more in collaboration with us than by limiting the damage done by the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e163	I perceive that when the red-green government ran down, the funding of the higher education and research sector was somewhat different. They started with the famous rest cutting, and there were also some fellows who were distributed, but there were often crises in business and the need there that led it. At the same time, we now experience that the sector is very satisfied with the investment that is, and that the sector itself feels that there is an increase, there is another drive, there is something else that happens with the funding of higher education and research. So what I'm asking is whether the Workers' Party agrees with that, or whether they can recognise that there is now another drive, a different focus on higher education and research in terms of funding and the willingness to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e171	The reality description given is simply wrong. The red-green government received a lot of recognition for the so-called cultural promise, where the cultural budgets increased sharply. But the truth is that the research budgets increased as much. The real growth in the research budget under the red-green government was – as far as I remember – between 30 and 40 p.m., so it was a real boost. Of course, more could be done, and we do that year after year, but in a situation where we have increased the use of oil money quite dramatically, really, where we pay more of our current expenditure than ever from oil, you should think that research, education and development were something you put the money on, but instead it's on a tax haven. Then I understand that the Left thinks that if they hadn't had a hand on the steering wheel, it could have been worse, and it would certainly have been, but I still think that we could get more together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e176	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e179	In times when we are challenged both economically and in other ways, it is very reassuring, and quite indicative of the government, that one of the main priorities of the budget is once again knowledge. There is also considerable emphasis on ensuring that people get a job to go to. For the third time, the four cooperation parties have agreed on a budget in which knowledge is among the main priorities. For the third time since the government joined in autumn 2013, school, education, research and innovation have been among the top priorities of the government parties, and each year these themes have been further strengthened in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. Norway is in the most challenging situation in several decades. The oil price has fallen and unemployment has increased. We have a refugee and migration crisis. Europe is being terrorised. Families and individuals experience uncertainty. The situation requires political accountability, and it is important for the Right that Norway is managed safely. Therefore, it is good that the cooperation parties have agreed on a responsible and forward-looking budget that contributes to work, activity and migration. All the parties are for knowledge. We agree that the teacher is the most important single factor that affects students' ability to learn. We broadly agree on the broad lines of research policy. Nevertheless, I believe there are some differences between the parties. It is perhaps most about the ability to prioritize and to hold a rough course over time. While the government has raised further training of teachers to new heights, the opposition has followed. While the government, after a little over two years in government, has achieved the objective of 1 pst of public funding for research. of GDP, the opposition has also followed in its alternative budgets. The point is that in knowledge, the government is ahead of it, delivering strong budgets and setting itself up in the field, and I think that's what people have brought with them. That's what the teachers have brought with them, that's what the students have brought with them, and that's what the researchers have brought with them. One of our priorities is to strengthen students' skills in real science. Norway is among the countries with fewer hours in the natural sciences, and in order to improve the ability of students to meet the challenges we will have to face in the future, there will be more natural sciences hours at primary school. We know that we need more skilled workers, and therefore the government's professional career is continued and strengthened in cooperation with the social partners. The aim is better quality and that more people carry out the education. The whole range of knowledge from kindergarten to research, innovation and value creation is given priority. It's a red thread that follows a logic from year to year, and overall, this helps to equip us for the future. In the case of higher education and research, the government has taken several structural measures and strengthened funding considerably since the change in 2013. We'll get, for example. 388 more scholarship positions in 2016. The government also proposes significant growth in research and development – 2.1 billion. kr more, a real growth of over 4 pst. The long-term plan for research and higher education is followed up. Among other things, the government strengthens world-leading trade unions by 75 million. kr. The Free Project Support Scheme, FRIPRO, is strengthened by 50 million. kr, and Centres for Excellent Education are strengthened by 25 million. kr. There's an increase of more than 130 million. kr for participation in Horizon 2020 and 25 million. for infrastructure on research. Nutritional research has been strongly strengthened through both the FORNY programme and the User-Controlled Innovation Arena. I would also like to mention that we are facing a comprehensive process in which the Norwegian Church is in transition. It is a necessary, but demanding process, and therefore it is good that the government has continued the extraordinary conversion funds to the Church that came into revision before the summer, and in the budget agreement this allocation has been further strengthened. ‘While more and more European countries are tightening up their research budgets, the Norwegian Government has chosen to send a clear signal by delivering an offensive research budget.’ This was said by the Executive Director of the Research Council, Arvid Hallén, to the management of the weekly newspaper when the budget was presented. That's the knowledge we're going to live on in the future. The budget we are discussing today is a forward-looking budget, which represents a step forward towards a future where we know that we need to create more, new knowledge-based jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e209	As mentioned earlier in the debate, we are now seeing record in oil money use. A lot of money is spent on this budget, so we have enough of that. Then it is strange that the level of investment in primary public schools is as low as it is, especially when knowledge and education are one of the fanatics of this government – when you listen to it. In this budget, 166 million fresh dollars are spent in public primary schools, when one includes the cuts in basic education — while private schools, on the other hand, are invested. That's 210 million. kr more. How can the Right defend the priority of investing more in private schools than in public primary schools, where there are far more students?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e216	I think it's a strange way to produce Right Budget. There is no doubt that school is a priority in this budget. Among other things, we know – and I think we agree – that good teachers are a prerequisite for investing in school. And if that's what we've put a lot of effort into, it's strengthening the further education of teachers, while at the same time enabling the schools to deliver good budgets. We're increasing the number of natural science lessons in school. We have a real subject matter that we know we need to have, because we know that one of the challenges in school is that there are too many children and young people who are unable to cope with, for example. mathematics and natural sciences. That is why we are giving priority to this. So I don't think there's any reason to say that we don't bet in school. We also have a strong community economy, which enables the municipalities to implement at least as much school policy as they did under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e225	Right talk a lot about school and education, but there's one school we don't so often hear Right talk about. It's the cultural school. Culture School is a national school that helps to strengthen the cultural skills of children and young people, which provide experiences in the arts and culture, and which is also important for ensuring the recruitment of cultural professionals — both for the amateur field and for professional practitioners. I am very pleased that in the budget agreement we have come to the conclusion that we should strengthen the Council of Culture Schools and work on implementing a new framework plan for the cultural schools. I think that's important. I'm still interested in hearing if the Right Party has any ambitions for the cultural school, and what those ambitions are in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e232	Me and the Right believe that art and culture have an important place in training, there is no doubt about it. Therefore, it is good that we also use some public funds to support the work on art and culture in initial training. This is why the government has taken some action – redeployed funds in this field and is working to implement a new framework plan in the cultural schools. I think it is positive that in the budget agreement we got to strengthen the cultural schools by giving extra in development funds to the Council of Culture Schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e239	In Oppland and Sogn and Fjordane – at least after what I have seen – more than half of the teachers lack study credits in one of the three subjects Norwegian, math and English, after they have received these new demands with retroactive effect. The numbers are taken from the GSI. In a state like Uppland, it's going to be about the entire government offer for a year, so we have 19 counties. The majority have now imposed an obligation on teachers in these subjects to continue their training. I want to ask the representative if she thinks it makes sense that it is these subjects who are going to take up all the places for further training, and why the Right has not put money into the municipal budget so that the municipalities can be compensated for the extra expenses they may now be charged, because the teachers refuse to take their share in the further training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e246	I think it's about putting up with further education and making clear, professional demands for teachers is one of the most important things we can do, because it's about having professionally qualified, good teachers who can train our children. Setting new requirements for competence while providing municipalities with a great opportunity to carry out further training of teachers is two sides of the same issue, which enables the school to achieve this goal. We've seen that over 5,000 teachers participate in further education only this year, and if we continue to do so for a decade to come, we're going to have a very long way to bring about empowerment among all Norwegian teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e251	The representative Vinje boasts of the government's ability to prioritize research. Nevertheless, a record dollar of $7 billion is involved. kr more than we in SV propose in our alternative budget. The part that goes to research in the budget hasn't added anything special, so it's an interesting priority. So we have a lot more priority for research, but we have less oil money to go with. When it comes to prioritisation, the largest single effort on the research budget for next year, as suggested by the government, is oil exploration. Now we have just been through a December with Paris negotiations and bold climate goals – 1.5 degrees. Does the representative Vinje think that the greatest single effort in the future should also be oil exploration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e259	Firstly, there is a need to review the figures in the field of NCI research. There you can clearly see the kind of increase in research as a share of the state budget, after one took over power after eight years with SV in the Ministry of Knowledge. There is a significant increase in investment in research and development in the budget, and this will be seen in the clear speech of the figures. In terms of individual efforts, I would say that the main priorities of the research budget are excellent environments, that is internationalisation, and that is nutrient research. Yes, we are also giving priority to research in the oil and gas sector. It's because it's one of the most important industries we have in Norway. It is important that we have a knowledge-based development of also those activities, which are an important nutrient pathway – as an important input into the global climate process, because Norwegian oil and gas industries are more climate friendly than any other oil and gas industries in the world, and they will be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e266	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e269	It is now a good budget to adopt – a budget that clearly bears the mark that Norway faces major challenges in the coming years. The Progress Party believes that good framework conditions for business and a good education and research sector are the cornerstones of the welfare society and a prerequisite for job security and value creation. A good education sector is important for the long-term transformation of the Norwegian economy, and the Progress Party is pleased with the commitment to education and research in next year's budget. The great British statesman Edmund Burke wrote: «Clean economy is not economics. Expenditure, large expenditure, can be an essential part of a good economic policy. In this budget, expenditure is high, but expenditure on research and education is investment that will ensure value creation and well-being for the population of Norway. Both enterprises and the public sector will in the future be in great need of skilled workers in vocational and vocational training. Therefore, efforts are being made to improve vocational training. In the professional sector, there are a number of measures that the Progress Party has been fighting to implement for many years, measures that will contribute to work, activity and change. Alternative training courses such as: practical training programmes in enterprises. The practical letter system is being extended, the offer to students who want to combine vocational letters and study skills is being further developed, and work is under way on the vocational common subjects in vocational training. The possibility for vocational trainees to switch between school and business training is reinforced. The government and the cooperation parties have increased the apprenticeship grant by NOK 15 000 in two years. Every year, there are between 6,000 and 8,000 students who do not get a place to learn. This is the labour force that Norway needs. That students do not have a place to learn is one of the reasons why they lose motivation and fall away. The Progress Party is pleased with the government's professional commitment and clear objectives of providing more apprenticeships so that more people complete higher education and receive a letter of formal education and training. For this reason, the government has put in place a strategy to increase the number of apprentices in state enterprises by tightening the requirements for the use of apprentices to win public tenders. The Progress Party expects this to give more places to learn, but the municipalities and the labour market must also contribute to the inclusion of more apprentices. The Progress Party is pleased with the efforts made by vocational teachers. Hospitation schemes are extended so that enterprises can contribute to the professional updating of vocational teachers. Furthermore, professionals who wish to become teachers can now receive a scholarship to combine education and, where appropriate, part-time work. These are measures that will improve school quality and provide good conditions for future value creation. Many Norwegian students today have major problems with the real subjects. This is something the Progress Party has long pointed out, and therefore we are pleased that the government is so clearly giving priority to getting real-life knowledge to a higher level. In addition, the government is increasing the investment in real-time vocational schools. The real-time vocational training programme is in full swing, and the provision of continuing education and training for teachers prioritises mathematics and natural sciences. Today's society is constantly evolving. Lifelong learning and development of competences are therefore necessary in all areas of education and most professions. Therefore, it is important that there is a well-organised education provision no matter what phase we are in, and no matter where we live in the country. The Progress Party therefore looks forward to the government’s big message on lifelong learning and alienation, which is presented in the spring. The promotion party is in favour of both online and decentralised training services such as: the study centres offer. This offer has meant that many people who had not been able to take higher education have now received it. At the same time, we see the need to clarify roles and trigger the potential of study centres. We therefore refer to framework-independent decisions in the vote and look forward to getting a case in Stortingen on this. There is a holistic thinking behind the knowledge effort in the budget. Norway must have good education at all levels, from kindergarten and primary school to vocational schools, universities and adult education. Norway, as a knowledge-based society, is fully dependent on primary school students acquiring knowledge to master the challenges they face in vocational education, training and working life. In this context, the government's teacher's vow is particularly important. I would also like to commend the efforts of the school owners, who allow more than 5,000 teachers to participate in further training. The quality of teachers is to be improved and the character requirements are introduced in maths when they are admitted to teacher training, so that both status and competence are increased. The teacher is the most important single factor in the learning of students. Therefore, a stronger requirement for immersion has been adopted for the teachers who teach basic subjects. In a business based on competence as we do in Norway, it is important that knowledge is put into practice at all levels. Conditions must be provided for both professional and academic subjects. The students are among the groups to be covered in the budget. Their long-standing battle for 11 months of study support is now over, thanks to the government parties and the cooperation parties. The historically high investment in the construction of 2 200 student housing is continued. Together with the cooperation parties, funding was allocated to 500 new study places in the context of the revised budget for 2015, and approx. 500 new study places are now being created in 2016. This will contribute to a resilient and diverse business and an efficient public sector. 55 new study places are created in medicine and psychology. As part of the action package for increased employment, 350 new study places are set up in the PPU. 60 of these are assigned to UiS. This will help engineers and skilled workers who want to enter school. The offer has been very well received by engineers in Rogaland, who are affected by unemployment as a result of changes in the oil sector. Increased unemployment must be met with long-term migration measures, but also with rapid employment measures. The government's strengthened investment in BIA to stimulate increased investment in research and innovation in industry will have long-term effects. Fortunately, however, efforts are also being made to ensure a rapid impact, for example: The DEMO 2000 programme, which targets projects where new technologies are demonstrated through pilots and field trials. The pilot projects involve close cooperation between suppliers, research institutions and oil companies. This contributes to innovation in the offshore sector, including: for energy efficiency improvement, safer operation and reduced costs of suppliers and operators on Norwegian base. Overall, this programme will be able to trigger activity, research and innovation for over half a billion dollars. These are concrete and practical value creation measures that the Progress Party is very pleased that the government is launching. Willing to convert and research into renewable energy is important, but the Progress Party is also pleased that this budget is devoted to petroleum research. It is important to take into account that oil and gas will be valuable industries for many years to come, even though the oil price is now lower than we expect it to be. The government is using the opportunity we now have to take the necessary steps to ensure Norway’s well-being and value creation in a tough international situation. It is essential for us to be able to be well-being in the future as well. I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for their good cooperation on the budget. I come back with my own statement about the church budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e312	I'm getting a little tired that we're constantly talking about the teachers being the school's most important resource, while some people claim that access to this resource is not so important. Bente Thorsen said to the Newspaper in August that it was unthinkable that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party would provide more teachers in school by doing so, among other things. The Training Association wishes to establish a standard of teacher density. She argued that it was unprofessional for several reasons, including: because it was not proven that more teachers gave better results. My question to the representative of Thorsen will then be: does she think it is also unprofessional that from this room we make sure that the teacher's density from 1st to 4th steps is increased now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e319	It's now like there's a teacher's shortage. And it's now so that there's already a good part that's not qualified through teacher training, in school. There we have taken action and put in place measures for the unskilled, so that they are given the opportunity to receive full teacher training. When it comes to inserting more teachers from 1st to 4th grade, it can be a good grip. It's possible that in high school, from 1st to 4th grade, they get the best out of just what's going on increasing teacher's density — from early work from day one, as soon as we see them struggling. In general, when it comes to increasing the teacher's density from 5th to 10th grade, I'm more sceptical about it. Nor have I seen any research showing that increasing teacher density is the best thing for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e326	I can recommend to the representative Thorsen a lot of research that shows that increasing teacher density has a good effect. I am pleased that, despite this scepticism from the Advancement Party, we have agreed on a solid commitment to increasing teacher density in school. But I want to ask you something completely different. The world is facing the greatest refugee crisis since World War II. This means that hundreds of thousands of people are seeking security and refuge in Europe and that thousands of people are coming to Norway. This is a demanding situation in several ways for our country, and it is a demanding task to integrate these people well into our society. If we succeed in the task – and I believe that we have to do it – the people who come to Norway now can be a valuable resource for our society. How does the representative of Thorsen see that the school and education systems can be used to ensure good integration, and what action does she think she needs to take to ensure that we succeed in this job?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e333	Let me first say that it is a very important and good question the representative comes with. It is important to get the best possible and the earliest possible integration and to get people out of work. Refugees from non-EU/EEA countries may experience difficulties in approving their vocational training and problems with authorisation or addition, as they lack elements of education. Therefore, central recognition of vocational training has now been added to NOKUT, which has been commissioned to establish its own central recognition for foreign vocational training, e.g. by providing complementary training, where appropriate. This will facilitate the recognition of the professional qualifications of refugees. In addition, provision is made for the use of their competences by those with higher education. There are good and important measures that will improve the possibility of both work and integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e340	The representative of Thorsen stated that it is good to give vocational teachers the opportunity to continue their training. I agree. She also said that increased demands for those who are going to teach are important – and we agree with that. But what we don't agree with is whether the law should have retroactive effect or not. Now there are 38 000 teachers who no longer have accepted basic education. All of these are going to be further education in the next ten years. Then I would like to ask the representative Thorsen if she thinks it is better to have a substitute in Norwegian or math at high school, which comes straight from high school, or to have a teacher with 30 credits from the teacher's school and 25 years of experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e347	That's about. 38 000 teachers in Norwegian school who do not meet the qualifications requirements. The county councils and municipalities have had ten years to meet the requirements for education in math, Norwegian and English. The employment rules are the same as before. There have been rumors that they could not be employed as a teacher anymore, but no teacher loses their job as a result of the new rules. In addition, there is a good training offer with more than 5000 further training places for teachers. So far, we have not received any feedback that this has led to special problems in connection with solutions with temporary workers. In addition, there is a decentralised provision of further training for teachers that can be used. For the Progress Party, it is important that teachers who teach in these subjects have a deeper understanding of the subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e352	Bullying is something we talk about from time to time. Bullying in school is not just a problem for the school, it's a problem for the whole community. We have seen estimates showing that as many as 24 000 children and young people are being bullied several times a month. We know that the Djupedal committee has worked and made a lot of suggestions, over 100. This is one of the things we think it's important to focus on all the way, that's what helps. It helps to focus on those issues. So I want to ask the representative Thorsen what the Progress Party wants to do to get rid of or reduce bullying in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e360	Once again, a very important question. I am very pleased that the government is working on several different measures, including: an anti- bullying programme, which is aimed at preventing and clarifying the responsibilities of the school owners. A new web portal is being developed. There, parents, children and young people can find practical information about where they can get help. In the budget, it's set at $30 million. kr to work against bullying, for a good learning environment. The Government’s project A team around the student will assess how other occupational groups, such as: health or environmental workers may be used, inter alia: to prevent and stop bullying. These are measures that, hopefully, will give students a much better schooling day. In addition, I look forward to further consideration of the Djupedal Committee's proposal in Stortinget. There are many good suggestions for solving the bullying problem at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e368	How will Norway meet the challenges we face in the future? How are we going to be able to convert from a highly oil and gas dependent economy to a less oil and gas dependent economy? How are we going to meet a future where there are more older people out of work and fewer people working? How will we be able to meet the needs of the future for sufficient labour, and how will we be able to ensure the best possible well-being in Norway? These are the questions that politicians have to ask us, and one of the most important answers is that we have to focus on knowledge and competence. But in order for this bet to have the effect we're after, we have to make sure that it's quality in all terms. We need to see the whole, and we need to see the context – from the 6-year-old who enters the school gate for the first time, to the student who completes a master's degree or doctor's degree, or the skilled worker who is ready for work with a letter under his arm. The budget we are about to adopt is a budget which, after conciliation between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, sees both the whole and the context, which focuses on quality at all stages, and which is a clear commitment to knowledge and competence. Let's start with the smallest children, the six-year-olds, the ones in the start-up pit full of expectations and full of learning. It is important that these children get a good start to school. It is important that they get positive experiences with the school, and it is important that they acquire basic knowledge and skills during the first years of school. Therefore, it is essential that they meet teachers with sound professional competence, and therefore I am glad that the commitment to continuing training for teachers is continued, and that the level of competence of non-qualified teachers in primary school is strengthened. But it is at least equally important that students meet teachers who have enough time to give them the help and follow-up they need. Today, too many people get a little too bad start at school just because they get a little too little time with their teacher. And for those who need some extra help and follow-up, the help comes often too late. The Christian People's Party has wanted to do something about this, and I'm proud that this year for the second consecutive year we are getting an impact on a solid commitment to early school effort through more teachers to the smallest students. As of August 2016, this investment will be increased by 320 million. kr. With more teachers in school, each learner gets more time for each student. It will give more children a good start to school. Several teachers are also important in a situation where many children now come to Norway as refugees. If we jump to the other end of the education cycle, it's important that we have well-functioning educational institutions that deliver quality in both education and research. The four cooperation parties strengthen the university and higher education sectors, among others. by providing new places of study and a total of 338 new recruitment positions. We are also in the midst of a university and higher education reform where several institutions are now joining forces to create better and more solid professional environments. It is good, and I think it is positive that more mergers are now on the steps, and that many institutions have been offensive, forward-looking and constructive. The secondary school in Buskerud and Vestfold, which is one of the new colleges after a previous merger, merges with the Telemark College in 2016. It will be exciting to follow up on the new high school in south-east Norway in the future, not least in terms of the plans for obtaining university accreditation. In the budget agreement, the cooperation parties agreed to assign ten new recruitment positions to the college to give quality development work a boost in the interview now, and the same applies to the University of Oslo and Akershus. In the private sector too, several institutions have seen the value of creating larger and more solid professional environments. Four private colleges become the new science college VID in January 2016, and this is going to be the country's second largest private college. Private educational institutions will also receive part of the new recruitment positions and study places negotiated in the budget conciliation. The budget also includes changes in the funding system for the university and higher education sectors. There are probably several of us who could have wished that this had come as a separate matter for the Storting, but when said, we have come up with sensible changes that I think will be positive for the sector, and which I think will enable each institution to cultivate its profile and its distinctive character. The main lines are continued, but one of the steps taken is the introduction of a contribution and mission-funded research indicator. This will both reward and stimulate increased cooperation with industry and the public sector, and I think it will help to strengthen the regional importance and role of institutions. Another approach is to integrate several EU projects into the EU indicator, which will allow more institutions to focus on international research cooperation. An indicator of completed education and attained degrees is also introduced to stimulate institutions to closely follow-up of students, with the aim of getting more people to complete at a standard time. What remains, however, is a review of the funding system for private universities. This is a diverse sector, and I think there is a need for a thorough review, as the majority of the committee also points out in the vote. There is a need to clarify the criteria for receiving State grants, and there is a need to discuss how we can ensure a greater level of non-discrimination between public and private institutions, not least in terms of construction and infrastructure. I think we might also need a discussion about whether it makes sense to look at different categories in the private sector, because there's no doubt that there's a big difference between a college that operates on an ideal basis and a school that operates on a slightly more commercial basis. In addition to good educational institutions, it is important that those who are students at institutions, whether private or public, also have a framework for success. Therefore, it is good to continue the investment in several student homes and that eleven months of student support is now also being introduced. But not everyone is going to study at universities and colleges, and well it is. If there is one thing Norway is going to need more in the future, it is good skilled workers. This is why it is important to invest in the professions, both to make more people choose to take vocational training and to help more people succeed. For this reason, vocational training is so important to ensure closer cooperation between schools and the labour market, to ensure more flexible courses in vocational and vocational training and to ensure quality and relevance in education and training. One of the main reasons why too many do not complete in the professional fields of study is that many experience not having an apprenticeship. That is why I am pleased that the cooperation parties have agreed once again to increase the apprenticeship grant in order to stimulate more companies to hire apprentices. This grant has now been increased by a total of NOK 15 000 since the appointment of a new political majority in the Grand Duchy in 2013. I want to get back to school. Of course, teaching students what to do is important, but that's not the only thing that matters. It is also important that they have it well and feel that the school is a safe place to be. There are too many people who experience being bullied, and I have to say that I am waiting with both expectation and impatience for the government's follow-up to the Djupedal report. Then it's important that we have a school health service that works, and that there are enough health sisters available in school. That's why I'm glad we've had a positive impact on increasing the funding for the school health service by 100 million. kr, and that these funds are earmarked so that they are actually used for this purpose. It is important to prevent mental problems among children and young people and also to help those who experience different problems in life and everyday life and who need help, follow-up and support from a health sister. This bet comes at the top of an increase of 200 million. to the prevention of the health work of children and young people in the free income of municipalities. To sum up, I think we've got a budget that sees the whole, that sees the context, and that's an offensive budget with a solid commitment to school and education. Then I'll come back to what's going on about church and religious communities, in a later article, and I'll finally take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e398	Then the representative Anders Tyvand mentioned the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e403	We just got a new climate agreement in Paris. It says you have to work to avoid the global average temperature rising above 2 degrees, you have to work to get it down to 1.5 degrees. It requires tools, it requires new solutions, and research is a prerequisite for doing so. Today, in the Chamber, the Progress Party has taken up the importance of petroleum research. My question to the representative of the Christian People's Party is whether the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the balance between the increase in petroleum research and the increase in climate research in this year's education and research budget, which we adopt four days after the conclusion of the climate agreement in Paris.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e408	I think we need to bet on many fronts to be able to solve the climate challenges, and it is quite obvious that research is very important. But then we must not just look at the research that goes directly into climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy, which is one of the main areas of the long-term research plan. There are also other types of research of great value, not least business-oriented research, which can contribute to more innovation and the development of new technologies in business. I think the follow-up to the long-term plan, which is above 800 million. kr, is a very good start. It is important that we have the concrete efforts on climate and the environment, but we also need to see this in a slightly larger perspective. Having an environmentally friendly – or least environmentally friendly – oil extraction in Norway is also an important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e413	I know that the Christian People's Party is especially concerned with the very youngest students in school. At the same time, we see that with the increased influx of asylum as we experience, there are many children and young people of school age. I would like to hear what the Christian People's Party thinks we can do to give all these children and young people a good education offer while they are sitting waiting for their asylum application to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e418	It is an important question and a major challenge facing our society. Children who are expected to stay in Norway beyond three months are entitled to a school offer. I think it's very important that we give them a school offer as early as possible. It is important for integration, and it is not least important for the individual, who may have been on the run and out of school for a long time already. In such an acute situation, where we now see that this is challenging, I think we must venture to think again. It may be important to get rid of both volunteer forces, pensioners, students and others who want to contribute, but at the same time I think it is important to get these students into ordinary school as soon as possible. Then I think that the type of introduction classes can be a very good measure. And then it's important, I think, that we have enough teachers to receive these students when they come. Therefore, the focus on increasing teacher density in this situation is also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e425	Putting in early intervention is crucial for students. That is the broad political agreement. Early work is a subject that we have discussed frequently in this Chamber, and on 20 June last year the representative proposed the introduction of national provisions on teacher density in primary school. During the year’s budgetary conciliation, the cooperation parties agreed to increase early effort by a further 320 million. kr to get more teachers from 1 to 4 steps. The party of progress is in favour of this. We also look forward to the research results clarifying which actions are most effective in addressing different challenges in relation to this initiative. At the same time, it is the municipality as the school owner who is responsible under the training law for employing enough teachers. My question is whether the Christian People's Party will still have the state standard of teacher's density throughout primary school, so that the municipalities are deprived of this responsibility. Or will they await the results of the research?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e434	I must first say that the early effort agreed between the four cooperation parties is an extremely important contribution. But the Christian People's Party still believes that it makes sense to introduce a national standard of teacher's density in school, and that is to ensure that all students have an equivalent school offer. We see that many schools experience cutbacks in budgets. I don't think it's because the local politicians think it's basically good school policy, but I think it's because they feel it's a necessity. If we both have a national standard of teacher's density and contribute funds to more teaching positions in the budgets, there will be more time for each student and more equivalent school provision across the country. At the same time, it is important for me to point out that the Christian People's Party does not want to introduce the old class divisions, but that we want a resource standard that ensures both enough teaching resources and enough flexibility in the individual school to be able to use these resources as you think it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e445	Policies are known as priorities. These are often very demanding issues. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we have reduced the use of oil money by approx. 5.6 B.C.E. Compared to the government's proposal. We've increased the transfers to the local government sector by 6 billion. kr. We also proposed to increase the Ministry of Knowledge budget by approx. 674 million. kr more than the government's proposal provided. It is important to stress in a debate on the budget for education that it is the municipalities and county municipalities that are school owners – not the Council of State Røe Isaksen. Ordinary running of primary and secondary schools is financed, not by the Ministry of Knowledge budget, but by the school owners, who are municipalities and county municipalities, through appropriations from the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation's budget. This means that the conditions on which pupils, teachers and parents are most concerned in their daily lives depend primarily on the level of the local economy, such as: the number of pupils per teacher is not too high, so that all students are followed up as necessary, while teachers have good working conditions, up-to-date books and equipment must be available in order to accommodate temporary workers in the absence of a teacher's recruitment is well-needed strengthening measures in education is possible, there are good areas and good quality of indoor climate; Top of the page: The Minister of Local Affairs is therefore just as important for Norwegian school as the Minister of Knowledge. I cannot therefore avoid making a few heart attacks this year either: the centre party is still disappointed by the government’s lack of ‘driving’ to implement the decisions taken by the Stortinget for the professional subjects two and a half years ago. We think it is an over-conceived approach, especially to the exchange models. It is understood that the government does not want to impose any financial compensation on the county councils or clear obligations, so that the measures are prioritised at each school. ‘It is now time for the sea to come.’ In answer to our budgetary questions about the scope of exchange models and what the government has put into the draft budget, our criticism is confirmed. There is no small amount of money to try out exchange models. It's not a full rollout of a system both teachers and business have been eager for. Exchange models will, of course, be more expensive than today's main model. It has also confirmed KS in response to follow-up questions from the Committee after its budgetary hearing. Through a series of measures in our alternative budget, the Centre Party will implement a real boost for the professions. We strengthen, among other things: the free revenues of municipalities, in order to enable several counties to offer exchange models. We also increase the appropriation for equipment at secondary schools, in particular for resource-intensive vocational training. This is important in order to make education relevant and to improve students’ ability to complete education and to prevent non-response. Speaking of non-response: the central party strongly responds to the government once again making proposals that will make it difficult for apprentices to complete their education. The proposal to test housing benefit for apprentices will go beyond apprentices who have to stay on the hybel in order to be able to take a professional letter. This will particularly affect young people in rural areas, who often have no alternative but to obtain education. This is probably an example of a lack of understanding of the professions and challenges that exist around our country. We know that this is a group that is already exposed in the case of non-response. If we are to improve the quality of training and the degree of implementation, it is essential that we be able to increase access to apprenticeships. It is good that the government has once again chosen to increase the apprenticeship grant, but this is basically what the government has put in the pot for its so-called professional career. Because it's a paradox that the government's $90 million. kr to the professional field is mainly devoted to cancelling the grant to the enterprises, continuing training of professional teachers – which is good – and finally to the recognition of foreign skilled workers. The last thing that has really done is to strengthen the possibilities for our young people to complete their vocational training. But it looks nice on paper and increases the sum of the so-called professional lift. Even structural changes are difficult to implement. The proposal of the Centre Party to allow students to complete three years of higher education in the absence of coherence was voted down in the spring. So it's more important for the government that the students finish high school continuously in three years than they do an education. It's a bomb, a bomb, a bomb. As I said, the centre party supports the increase in the apprenticeship grant. In addition, we propose to reduce the employer’s fee for apprentices by 25 pst. from the next school year. We think that's wise, not least since the lack of apprenticeship places in central strokes, for example. in Oslo, is great. In addition, we increase the allocation of interventions for apprentices and apprentices with special needs. We also record that the government is finally following up the decision to review the offer structure, but we think it is going a little small. So for heart attack number two, once again, it's meant to expand the number of hours in a particular subject when it comes to acting. One would think that the evaluation of the Knowledge promise had given the government other ideas to respond to the need to strengthen students' learning outcomes in the natural sciences. One would think that the government's stated project to strengthen the teacher would lead to a just listening to the teacher, because if the Right and Advance Party had listened to the teachers, they would have heard that what they're asking for is not hours, but the opportunity to do a good job in the hours they already have. It is the content of the school that needs to be changed now, for example. reduce the number of objectives of competence in curricula, not more hours. Nuclear competence and critical drawing are important. In response to a written question from me, the Council of State has already confirmed that the introduction of the 6-year reform has had little impact on performance at 10 levels. Those who vote for one more hour in a subject we are not «good enough in» should take a note. That's why we don't support an hourly extension now, but instead we want to spend the money on increasing teacher density by at least 1,000 more teachers in the coming years. We'll give a commendation to the Christian People's Party for fighting money for this in the conciliation. Law on Competence Requirements with retroactive effect: I have promised to do what I can to reverse this law. There is no counter proposal, and there is no surprise in this, because it has been in committee for several weeks – and months. There are many reasons why we're dealing with this matter, and the teachers' organisations have been very clear on this. Firstly, we believe that this amendment to the law violates the position of teachers. All of a sudden, 38 000 teachers have passed their basic education. I have never heard of any other professional groups that the authorities have separated in this way. Instead of continuing with the law as it was, and achieving a positive level of education that wants to continue education, the majority get about the whole class against themselves. There will no longer be a positive opportunity for continuing education. Secondly, it becomes a budgetary matter when it is assumed that everyone who believed they had a basic education finds that they are being charged with continuing education that they must be part of paying out of their own pocket. Municipalities are not compensated for the additional costs of compulsory continuing education. We believe that our proposal to ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a case that gives all teachers who were trained before 2014, full teaching competence, would bring the matter back to the government for a new assessment. ‘It's a bulb somewhere it works. And we're good to find out ko'ss one." I want to get closer to this particular matter in my next post. So finally, before time runs out, a little visit to higher education: in our budget, we have first and foremost prioritised increasing regional research appropriations through the regional research funds. They have proved more successful than the government had thought. We also believe that it is right to give priority to basic research, FRIPRO, and equipment in research, which is currently an area of great demand, which may limit research activity. We are disappointed that the major review of funding for higher education did not become a matter of its own discussion, but that it is being minimized to a chapter in the budget. The major structural reform of the government, where, as it were, the entire state sector is being erased, goes through the radar for most and almost without discussion. We know very well that money placed in strategic areas will lead to a change in the individual institutions. So we don't get time for a thorough discussion of this. The government is concerned with the world-leading and excellent environments. It's all right, but in this desire, it's important that some of us are concerned about the breadth and the local and regional needs. There will be no Johaug without all the others participating in club fires after club fires, but never wins.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e511	Will the representative Mr Tingelstad Wøien make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e514	Yes, I am addressing the proposal we have alone, and the proposal we have with the Left and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e519	The representative Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e524	The representative, Tingelstad Wøien and the Centerpartie, have gone high on the path to the government's teacher's vow and the skill requirements that are now set for the teachers who are already in school, i.e. to be immersed in the common subjects in which they are taught. This requirement is something that Tingelstad Wøien and the Center Party already support in teacher training today – that is, that all newly educated teachers should be immersed in the common subjects in which they teach – but at the same time it is unreasonable to have the same expectations for the teachers we have in school today. My question to Mr Tingelstad Wøien is twofold. Does the representative Tingelstad Wøien think education works? Does the representative Tingelstad Wøien think that having formal competence in a subject makes it easier and better to teach in that subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e531	I answer yes to both questions. I think education works, and I think it's important to have formal competence. It is that the 38 000 teachers today had formal competence until June of this year, when the majority voted against it. What we think is stupid and unwise about this proposal is that one could probably achieve exactly the same thing if one had not given this retrospective force, because the system of continuing education, which the red-green government started and this government has followed up, has proved to be very successful. Teachers are not so reluctant to pursue further education. They insist on continuing training if they have to pay for this. But now the government has put in a big pot. I think we had achieved exactly the same thing – positive teachers who had been in line for further education. Instead, we now get a whole bunch of people who get disillusioned, who think there's no point in applying, because they're going out of school in ten years. I think, unfortunately, that is a hopeless proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e538	I'm recording that the Center Party is disappointed with the government's bet on the exchange model. It could have made me ask if the representative is satisfied with his own government's efforts after eight years in government, but I will not ask that. The Centre Party's alternative budget proposal proposes to cut the subsidy to incubators by 225 million. kr. Publicly funded schools give most people the real opportunity to choose a private school. Furthermore, the freedom of choice of parents in the field of school is a right enshrined in international conventions — the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. My question is: what consequences will this cut have for schools, for students' freedom of choice and to follow international conventions that ensure students' freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e547	First, I'm going to answer the first thing that Thorsen's representative had in mind – whether we were satisfied with our professional position after eight years. We have to remember that the red-green government took over the government just when the Knowledge promise was introduced, that is. that the promise of knowledge had to work a few years before one could see whether it had any effect at all on the professions and the rate of non-response there. It turned out it didn't. The Red-Green Government launched an evaluation of the Knowledge promise that gave us that information. That is why we also presented a big message that Stortinget adopted in June 2013, i.e. two and a half years ago. It was a follow-up to this. We can say that we should have seen in the past that the promise of knowledge did not work well enough for professionals, but we want a full pressure in the field of professional science. In the case of private schools, we have first removed the natural science class that the government has put in, and we have also gone against the extension of the qualification basis for private schools, which the government carried out in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e554	In the Central Party's alternative state budget, they're adding 8 million. kr for new builds for SEARCH on Høyland in Rogaland. It has also incorporated the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the government parties into the agreement. I guess that's good. But in the comments on the budget, in the case of scholarship holders, the Centerpartiet writes that they are critical that the Stortinget grants scholarship holders directly to some institutions. They write: ‘Where the distribution of grantees depends on the permeability of this type of negotiation, the capacity of each institution to influence the Storting may be more decisive than the allocation of these funds according to national considerations.’ My question is: what is the fundamental difference between driving political priorities to new buildings such as SEARCH in Highlands and political priorities, for example. to give ten scholarship holders to HiOA to achieve a university status?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e564	In our opinion, we should have some plans for that kind of thing. We should have it for new buildings, and we should perhaps also have it for scholarship holders – according to strategic considerations. I believe that we should be better off having goals that we should achieve, but not down to detail management.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e573	This budget is a good budget for the knowledge effort in this country. Much of what has already started is continuing, such as: the commitment to the further training of teachers and the efforts in the UH sector. But there are also some new initiatives that come into the budgetary agreement, which will be positive for the sector. The draft budget presented by the government was not at all bad, but ‘it's going to be good’, as there was a budgetary settlement with the Left and Christian People's Party. One of the most important measures in primary education is the commitment to continuing education. This is a bet that I perceive is wanted both by the teachers and by the school owners, and it's an important move for our school to get better and better. In the state budget last year, we agreed to grant money for a further education grant for the so-called non-qualified teachers in the school. Previous estimates have shown that there are about 9 000 non-qualified teachers working in school today. These have very different backgrounds. Some have doctoral degrees, but lack pedagogics, while others have not completed secondary education. Several of the high schools I have visited in the past have said that it has been difficult to get access to vocational teachers. This may be because the labour market has been very good for people who know a craft. It's possible there's a change in that way with the difficult economic situation that parts of the industry are in now, but this also gives us an opportunity to get new people into the teaching profession, because many more will probably see what a wonderful profession this is. Then it is important that we, as politicians, support this opportunity. When scholarship holders were handed out the previous time we were going to further and re-train non-qualified teachers, it turned out that there were many applications, both from those who were in primary school, and from professionals. That's why I'm glad you've found room for such a bet further, because I think it's very important for the school out there. In the budget agreement, the Left also had the advantage of a free SFO test scheme in some schools in Oslo, Trondheim, Drammen and Stavanger. Free SFO is about two things. In this context, it is primarily about including poor children in one of the most important leisure services among children. Attempts have already been made at some schools in Oslo, and it may be good to refer to the schools Tøenen and Vahl. They're not far apart, and they have students with the same socio-economic background. But while one has free SFO, the other has its own payment, which is common around the country. At the school with free SFO, all students go to SFO, but where it's self-payment, it's 43 pst. of the first classifications making use of such an offer. This shows that the price is important, and that this is an offer that people want, and they want to choose for their children if they have the opportunity. I am therefore pleased that this is now being extended to several cities. But it's only 20 million. kr that is set off in this round. The number of students will therefore be limited, but it will be up to the Department to assess how this money is best used. I imagine that some of the municipalities in question will want a solution where they can provide free SFO space for those who have parents with low income, thus providing more children with free SFO and being targeted in that measure. At the same time, there are probably other municipalities that want to give free SFO to all students at a school in one class step, as they have done in Oslo. It will keep all children in that school alike. I hope that the department adds up to a flexible system, so that we can see how this works and make us a little bit of a different experience. There is also a point in the budgetary agreement where it appears that the government is going to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a differentiated stay payment in the SFO, which we have in the kindergartens today. That's something we're looking forward to. But for the Left, it's not just the poverty perspective that would have been worth an effort around free SFO. We had also put a 40-million entry in our alternative state budget. kr for more general pilot projects. To a large extent, we organize school life as it has always been organized, and even if the rest of everyday life has changed significantly. We therefore believe that it is necessary and important to think about the school everyday life of children. Free SFO can give us an opportunity to do that, but we will get back to that in later debates and in later budgets. One of the most important victories in this state budget, and one of the great promises, is eleven months of study support. We in the Left are very happy that this is in place, and we look forward to it being followed up by an annual increase in study support from 2016 to 2020. We have a goal that it will be possible for everyone to be a full-time student. Then there's two things that have to go into place. It's student housing, and it's eleven months of student support. In recent years, we have put in place a good investment in student housing, and now the study support is also in place for eleven months. It is also very fun as a politician to see how well this was received. With NSO it is not just ‘mas, mass, mass, throughout the line’. They celebrate when there's reason for it. On the day that the budget agreement was presented and eleven months of study support lay in, a small party was spontaneously arranged at a pub here in the vicinity of the same evening. They've arranged cake parties around the country, not least here at Stortinget yesterday. We want knowledge to be available to everyone, not just to those who have rich parents, or who have the opportunity to work alongside the study. This is an important victory. Now the students can't afford only four skirts and a pizza on Friday night. Now they can also avoid ‘a bottle of wine in new and ne’’. One of the efforts that the sector was reasonably satisfied with when the government presented its proposal for a government budget was the investment in scholarship positions. In the government's proposal there were 238 new recruitment positions, in addition to 50 scholarship positions, in connection with the introduction of five-year masters for primary school teachers. However, there is a great need to continue the investment in future scholarship holders, and the report ‘Request for and offer of scholarship positions in Norway up to 2020’ shows us that although we have a certain investment this year, there is a need for a significant investment in the years to come. The left had added over 330 scholarship holders in addition to the government's proposal, but we are pleased with the impact of 100 additional recruitment positions, which came into place in the conciliation. I'm especially happy that 50 of these go to the three so-called new universities. They have always had lower funding than established universities. Even though 50 scholarship positions do not correct that bias, there are still good jobs which enable these universities to strengthen themselves in priority areas as well. I am also pleased that we agreed in the committee that 20 of the scholarship positions would go to HiOA and HVBT, because there are two major colleges that are now working to gain university status. These scholarship positions are both important and very well involved in that process. In the past, new universities and colleges have had difficulties in reaching allocations when the criteria have been about world-leading research – not because they do not have excellent professional environments, but because the institution they are affiliated to does not have sufficient weight in itself to reach. That's why I'm very happy that we got seven million in the deal. kr to Center for Cyber and Information Security at Gjøvik. Although these posts are under the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, there is no doubt that this is an important strengthening of an excellent professional environment and an important investment in the University of Gjøvik, which also NTNU will enjoy every day. It's one of the best professional environments in its field in Norway, maybe even in the world. Also, the 550 places of study that were put in place in the agreement are going to get along well. In particular, in the current situation, universities and higher education institutions need to be able to participate in the process of transition that needs to take place. There are several who are unemployed, and for many of these it may be appropriate to update their competence or expand their field of competence somewhat. Both universities and colleges are important in this way. In contrast to previous years, the study federations were spared a cut in the government’s draft government budget for 2016. But it was going to be 10 pst. the grant was to be used for the integration and the fight against exclusion. We in the Left are also concerned with the integration and fight against alienation, and I think the study federations can play an important role in that work in the future. I also perceive that the study associations themselves want to be involved in taking such a responsibility. But I notice that a majority in the committee and at Stortinget don't look at a designation as the right way to go to achieve that goal. It is about several things, first of all, that civil society must have a high degree of freedom, but also that such designation could lead to a bureaucracy that is difficult for the study federations to deal with. For my own part, I would also like to add that there may be some privacy challenges related to this, because I do not see it as either appropriate or necessary that everyone participating in a study association course should have to disclose any disability or feelings of loneliness. We need to work with the study federations on how to achieve the objectives of more integration and combating exclusion. I assume that the State Council will take the signals from Stortinget and engage in dialogue with the study associations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e623	The working party is that all teachers should be immersed in the subjects in which they teach, but what we see is that the government's proposal on new skills requirements has been too poorly investigated, and that there are several unintended consequences for very many teachers. The Labour Party therefore has inter alia: proposed that the government should come back to the Grand Duchy and give a proper account of the consequences of this proposal. We are only allowed to accept that the Left has made it clear that the party will follow the government in this matter. With what we now know, and all the practical consequences we are now getting described, will the Left – at least – be able to get a proper review of the matter in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e628	The left has the same starting point as the Working Party. Competence requirements are good, and teachers need to be immersed in the basic subjects in which they teach, which is what they want. We also know that the Workers' Party has submitted a Document 8 proposal for consideration in the new year. We're going to evaluate that, and we're going to evaluate it in a good and thorough way. I've been open that we now have to look at how this turns out. Is there anything you can do to make things easier? What are the needs out there? It's not like we're completely steep in the implementation of this. What we've been busy about is maybe we'll take two steps back. We want to sharpen the skills requirements, but we need to be open to assess different ways of financing this – and whether other things have to be done with the study places. We are pleased to discuss the proposals of the Workers' Party, which will come in the new year. I assume that both the Labour Party and the Left will have a good discussion on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e635	Norway is in a transition where the petroleum sector will not be the same driver of the economy as before. Together with the Left, we have adopted very good policies that will contribute to the emergence of new businesses and industries, and that can give us more opportunities to create exciting jobs. When entrepreneurs are going to create something new, it is important to remember that Norway cannot compete on pay, but we can be the smartest. Then it's important to remember the trade union workers. It's a pleasure, then, to once again strengthen the apprenticeship rate, which is increased for the fifth time, and by NOK 15 000 per contract. This, together with other government interventions, will be a boost for more skilled workers and will lead to fewer unskilled workers in the business world. That's how you strengthen Norwegian business. Nevertheless, we also have to have several of the best trade union workers. I therefore look forward to the champion's year in 2016, when it announced the announcement of the vocational schools. Since the Left is known to focus most on the academic part of the education sector, I am therefore excited about how they will contribute to 2016 becoming the year of vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e642	I also look forward to 2016 being the year of vocational education and training. I think there are many exciting issues that we will have the opportunity to discuss during 2016. I would also like to stress that the Left considers it important for good trade union workers, because knowledge is not just about academic knowledge. Being able a craft is honorable, and that's the way it should be. Not everyone knows a subject – a craft. That's why we have to have good education, because when you invite plumbers in, or a painter to paint the house, it's important that those who are coming can do the job they're going to do. I am also pleased that in the agreement we have had an increase in the apprentice's grant. I think it's very important that we get more places to learn, so that more people can complete a good apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e647	In parts of the country, not least there as the representative Nybø and I come from, there is now an increasing unemployment, as a result of changes in the petroleum sector. It is not only those who work in the oil companies who lose their jobs, but also those in the oil service industry, and we see that it has negative repercussions on the construction industry. The left is opposed to opening up oil drilling in Lofoten, the West Pole and other relevant places, but talking a lot about green conversion. How does the Left view that the knowledge sector, and the UH sector in particular, can help the West out of the current crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e654	That's right, as the representative Thorsen says, where we come from, it's a crisis. A lot of people lose their jobs. It's serious for them, but it's also serious for the whole Western society, as it is now. It is also true that we do not want to open up oil drilling in Lofoten and the Vestralen, but we need a green shift. In terms of change, the knowledge sector is very central to that. That's why I'm very happy that the government parties were involved, for example. an increase in places of study in conciliation, so that several of those now unemployed have the opportunity to study, to improve their skills, or to change their skills. I believe that the effort we are making in the UH sector in general is absolutely essential for us to get a green shift. Not least in our region, it is important that we strengthen our educational institutions, such as the UiS, HSH, UiB, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e661	This was actually quite special. Here we treat a position where the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government are quite a few, and then the government party uses this to address questions in this replication. It's probably -- I think -- because this case is very unpleasant for the Left, and that one doesn't want to get the critical questions from the opposition. This is about the competence requirement, where the left has ended up on the tip. It's the Left that makes sure that almost 40,000 teachers are now separated. Let me ask the question in a slightly different way: the left has previously been very concerned with preventing unskilled temporary workers in school. Why do the Left now separate several tens of thousands of teachers with wide learning skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e668	I do not fully agree with the premise that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes is using here. First of all, I saw quite clearly that there will be no even voting in view of the proposal that the Central Party has promoted, together with the SV and the Christian People's Party. I understood that the Labour Party was quite clear in its message that they did not want to support that proposal either, but that they saw that we were going to have a more thorough debate on this, not least linked to their own proposal, which is under consideration in the New Year. I have also said, on the left, that we should be involved in the discussion of that proposal. We also see that there are some unfortunate consequences, for example. for teachers who are out of school today but who want to come back in again. We are clear that we may need to facilitate another type of application in these continuing and continuing training places, but taking a clean budget rematch on a question that was decided in ours, we do not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e679	The road to knowledge is the gap. This means that there is not one right way - a phase that can only be repeated and repeated in order to gain new knowledge. There's not one way to teach kids math, Norwegian or English -- there's a lot of them. When SV criticises the government for being too busy for testing, it is because it leads to a uniformity of how to learn. For tests, tests and grades control the teaching. It is the necessary disadvantages that a person should not exaggerate. It defines the target and shapes the process. Americans call this "teach to the test". Similarly, together with teachers, elephants and parents, we have been informed of the government’s claim that more teachers do not contribute to better education. It's just about making it possible for teachers to adapt their teaching to the students' beliefs. The inability of knowledge must also be taken into consideration in higher education and research. Here too, the best research is not created by a pattern. There is no quick fix, a new counting edge or new economic incentive that suddenly triggers a sea of creativity. As noted at the Research Association's Conference on Academic Freedom: The numeracy helps to align research. Together with more and more eager economic incentives, this creates a cross-press that weakens academic freedom. Why is academic freedom so important? Because he relies on the knowledge that the path of knowledge is defective. Yes, we're going to make demands, and yes, we're going to have some major national projects. However, the requirements should not be so extensive that the research environment feels that they are becoming less and less able to make their own orientation choices. An investigation presented at the academic conference just showed that. Researchers feel that their academic freedom is weak. It is a paradox that the government in research policy is very concerned about controlling research, but in business policy governments are moving towards business neutrality. In business it is impossible for politicians to pick winners, while in research it is quite possible. There is one thing that even knows how to create winners. What about a slightly more balanced approach in both research policy and industrial policy? These recognitions of education and research form the starting point for SV's alternative budget. We suggest the first steps towards a full-time school with more teachers and school lessons. We start the teacher's step up from the first to the fourth step. 1 814 more teachers will bet our bet. That's the first step towards a teacher's norm for the entire primary school at school level, where the teacher from the first to the fourth grade on average has no more than 15 elephants, while in the rest of the primary school there is a ceiling of 20 elephants. It will provide a unique opportunity for the college and schools to adapt their teaching approaches to pupils. We want all education to be based on the interests, activities, needs and lives of the elephants. As otherwise in society, the school should be able to challenge the entire human being, practical, aesthetic and theoretical. School had to be associated with society around -- be an extension of normal life. That's exactly why we're proposing to move the homework to school. Research suggests that homeschoolers can have a negative learning effect and lower motivation for elephants who wear out in school. There's a big difference in the kind of follow-up students get home. In addition, we know that in the late evening, after all the other activities have been carried out, homesickness leads to stress for both children and parents, and can contribute to a lack of learning ability. More of the important training work in the school should therefore be spent on the school day as a school lesson with teachers present. There have been good experiences in several pilot projects, and we propose a national pilot to enable all schools throughout the country to apply for funding for trials. Parts of the pot must be used for follow-up and professional evaluation of the experiment. It's this connection with the life of the elephants that makes us propose all-day school for the lowest steps. It's a paradox that all the parties in this room have no problem that the students have an all-day nursery that lasts too long until 5:00 p.m., but have big problems with two hours extra on the lowest steps, from four hours to six hours – especially when everyone knows that the majority of the students are actually at school even longer, at the SFO. Two more hours will provide room for practice, for a proper lunch and more physical activity, more culture, practical and aesthetic activities – all of which are occupied by most parties, but do not give priority to school days. The local economy is going to talk too little about in educational debates. In particular, the government does not often refer to the local economy. But it's in the municipalities and state that we find the schools. In these budget days, we are still talking about municipalities that have to cut school because of the ever-poor local economy. In the alternative state budget of SV, we propose 5.8 billion. kr more to the municipalities than the government. Then we've spent seven billion dollars. kr less of the oil money. A substantial part of the effort we give to the municipalities is going to strengthen the schools. 13 pst. of all Norwegian research goes to petroleum-related research. In the government's budget, the largest single effort is petroleum research. I record that the Workers' Party asked the Christian People's Party to give priority to other things. But SV is the only party that actually prioritizes petroleum research and uses these funds to strengthen renewable research. We're talking about phased out the special initiatives over the Research Council. The oil scientists can still search the general funds like everyone else, but we're the only party that finds it problematic that oil research takes so much of the total Norwegian research effort. It's sad. We can't live in a bubble and talk about green shift, and when it comes to the problem, we're not willing to prioritize. The green shift must also come in research. In any case, the focus on renewable and future solutions should be the same, but oil exploration will have more than all the others combined. We are discussing today a setting in which the government parties and the Left have an opportunity to turn around in the question of competence requirements. The working party has announced that they will not support this either. SV supports the implementation of competence requirements by the whole-hearted government, but we strongly oppose its retroactive effect. Tens of thousands of teachers have suddenly been separated. There are teachers who have worked for decades as skilled teachers in Norwegian, English, math or Sami, and they have to pay for themselves to meet the requirements. Not many years have passed since this hall hailed the general teacher as the potato in school. Suddenly, this education is of little value. Finally, I would like to address a major matter of principle, which in this setting is only about $3 million. kr. The aim of supporting the Same School in Hattfjelldal is to help sustain, develop and strengthen Sami identity, language and culture. The Norwegian common policy is anchored in Grundlova § 108 and in a number of international conventions that Norway has committed itself to comply with. It therefore imposes on Norwegian government powers – no matter what type of government we have – to facilitate together to develop their language, their culture and their social life. The educational provision we find at Sameskolan is one of the few in southern Sami language and culture, and is an important contributor to Norway's maintenance of its obligations. When we know at the same time that Southern Sami might be the most deferred Sami language, it's a pretty crazy decision that the government is now taking. It is completely unclear what the option will be, and it is completely unclear what is the real basis for this decision. Finally, I just want to add that this is related to the general common policies that the government is pursuing. In all the larger bets that have taken place, for example: education, there has been a lack of commitment to Sami education. There seems to be a Norwegian growth and Sami cut in the policy of this government. I can't figure out what the purpose of this is. There is now a risk that this could have contributed to the destruction of future languages in southern Sami. I don't think we can acknowledge that in a country like Norway, when we have made a commitment everywhere that this is something we should be responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e705	Would the representative like to include the SV proposals in the configuration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e708	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e713	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e718	In its position, the SV and the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, call for a reduction in petroleum research because Norwegian industry needs to change and we need to stimulate new industries. We heard the same thing in the post now, and also in the previous line exchange after the representative Vinjes post. However, SV chooses to cut the appropriations for the Research Council under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries budget by 50 million. kr. In this entry, we will find, for example: the programme for the commercialisation of research results, which will contribute to the development of new enterprises and industries. Then I wonder how a representative from SV with such a strong interest in business can explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e725	We're doing a number of repriorities in what was the government's draft budget. We have a phase out of the special efforts on petroleum research that go beyond the Research Council's budget. We also shift funds and re-prioritize them to different bets, for example. a major marine investment and fish value creation programme, e.g. We're raising, but otherwise we're also raising other types of bets, whether they're on sea winds or different technologies. So I think that if the Tveiten Benestad representative sees our priorities coming together, she'll see that we get a lot stronger when it comes to research, but also innovation in addition to what the government has proposed in its budget. I want to say that at least there is a first step towards a green shift, which I think is completely absent from the government's draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e730	I want to take up the thread from the financial debate, which was a few weeks ago in this room, where Left's Iselin Nybø asked SV's Snorre Serigstad Valen about the investment in research and higher education, which we both agree on is important, I expect. There she was told that SV has not invested in several scholarship holders or increased basic grants to the higher education institutions because this year SV has actually prioritised hard – actually a liberating and honest response from an SV representative, and definitely a new direction in terms of moderation and economic neutrality. That's what I think SV deserves. However, it seems that the cooperation parties were important to give even higher priority to recruitment positions than the government provided. Can we read from this that SV and Knag Fylkesnes are very pleased with the government's great commitment to recruitment positions and basic grants? It did not exactly sound that way in the speeches by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e739	We have not calculated our bets for scholarship settings or postdoc settings osb. In fact, we want to leave this to the academic community to define – whether it is the Research Council or those who receive these funds upon application to the Research Council. If we had calculated this, it would probably be considerably more grant options than the government has come up with. It's just to look at how much money we actually allow for that purpose. But we haven't gone in and said that this will mean so many scholarship options. It is now a sluggish development in higher education and research that one strengthens the temporary positions and then builds a non-basic structure in Research Norway – one that educates many, but when they are finished, it is unclear what kind of future they should actually have. This can be achieved, for example, by: results in a lack of investment in study places. This would lead to many new academic positions at universities. The government's not coming up with any new places to study. It's gonna be a little bit of a back-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e748	Then I just have a simple follow-up question: what has changed from last year? In the Swedish alternative budget for 2015, extra scholarship holders were confirmed, and they said they wanted to give 300 million. extra in basic grants to higher education institutions. Is it then the government's great commitment to this that has made SV this year not numerically attaching this to the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e753	I can spell it out, and I can promise the representative, Bjørnstad, that at least our numbers will be higher than the government's numbers. I also think they'll exceed numbers in the government-cooperation agreement. It's just that we haven't prioritised this time of speaking exactly how many scholarships these are. Why should we, as a bulking, sit and define how many scholarship options there should be? Why can't we leave this to the scientific community itself? It's a sad tendency for one to rule in the small from the Storting. There's something we've been criticizing the government for, whether it's incentives or counting edges, or whether you're going to define which means you're going to use. That's SV strongly opposed. But if the representative wants to, I can illustrate this with a number, just to show that there are a lot of numbers here – under the authority that the representative doesn't think we're proposing exactly that number of scholarships.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e759	I want to go over a slightly different theme. The Socialist Left Party is a party that in the public debate has previously been accused of wanting to sweep all traces of religion under the carpet. Although the party is in an ideological tradition that has had a somewhat strenuous relationship with the faith of people, I hope not that this is the case, especially with a representative of the church committee who is a philosopher himself, and who I experience has great respect for the fact that people have different religious beliefs and identities. What is certain is that SV will cut off the grant to both the Church and various religious and life views, which will weaken the ability of religious communities to carry out their activities and to be active communities for their members. My question is whether SV believes it is important that we have a policy in Norway where we support the religious communities financially, and why SV has chosen to cut more than 120 million. kr to the Church and the religious communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e768	That is a good question from the representative, and it gives me the opportunity to say a little about whether SV is on these questions. SV wants to have an infrastructure and use government and public resources to facilitate the exercise of trusts and different forms of life's vision. We're very concerned about equality, but we want it to be an infrastructure in Norway for that. These are important questions for people. I myself have a great deal of respect for different types of trust and their place in society, but we are using huge resources on this in Norway today. This makes an exaggerated place of religion in society to a level I don't think reflects the place he actually has in people's lives. In fact, we live in a time when people think that the wars you have in the Middle East are the very foundations of religion – while social conditions do. One has an excessive orientation towards religion, and I think the financial level that we have on it today is too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e775	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e778	The budget we are discussing today is a budget for work, activity and conversion. We spend more money because Norway is in a special economic situation, but we also continue to invest in knowledge. It is also quite in line with the rule of action originally said, namely that the money had to be turned over to long-term investments, among other things. knowledge. As a country, we face a number of major challenges – globalisation, economic challenges, environmental challenges, asylum and refugee flows – and knowledge is a crucial part of the response to all these challenges; for business conversion, to develop new technologies to bring down greenhouse gas emissions, to do something about social policy and not least to do something about integration policy. Knowledge, school, higher education are essential for children to read and write, but it is also crucial for the coherence of society, that we can feel like one people regardless of where we are from. Today, there are too many differences across our education system; there are too many differences between students. We know, for example. your starting point at home — whether your parents have long or short education, many or few books in the bookshelf — is more important to your schooling than most. We also know that although there are many children with minority backgrounds who do great in school, they are on average far below the majority when it comes to, for example. reading skills. There are too many differences between schools. There are too many differences between schools where they manage to lift all the children, or at least have an ambition to do so, and schools where they allow too many children to go after, and there are also systematic differences between municipalities and counties. One of the greatest concerns I have as a minister of knowledge is not the school in any profiled big cities in Norway, but there are schools where, year after year, students go through without having learned what to do. In the university and higher education sectors too, there are too many differences, too many differences in quality, in the time spent by the student, in expectations of what the students will deliver, and in the prioritisation and focus on research. Our response – the government’s response and the cooperation party’s response – is ‘a good budget for knowledge’. I might have taken in even a little more if I were to say it myself, but this isn't my quote, it's a quote from trade union leader Petter Aaslestad in the Research Association. It is a budget that prioritises early action. We are continuing to pursue a historical commitment to continuing training. Over the course of two years, we have almost tripled the number of continuing education. We strengthen a real science strategy – not only by having an extra science class, because we are almost at the bottom of hours in the field of natural sciences, but also through a targeted strategy for more students to learn how to do better, but also get better in the field of natural sciences. We have a targeted read strategy that will, in particular, reach the students who are following. In the case of professional traineeships, it is good that at the end of the red-green period the government provided a big message. Now follow it up. The educational grant is once again increased by the government — and even more by the cooperation parties. We're introducing and launching a professional teacher's lift, which we also said we should do. This year we start with 20 million. kr, which is intended to strengthen the competence of vocational teachers and to recruit more skilled workers into school. Then we grant money for an authorisation scheme for persons with foreign vocational training. There is a strong demand on the part of the parties, and of course it is also important for the professions. In the case of higher education, the quality is in the high-ranking position, and then the number of scholarships is not insignificant. Universities and higher education institutions are strengthened by 338 fellows in 2016. Some of them are temporary and linked to the government’s action package, but there is a strong strengthening. We are in the midst of major structural changes in the university and higher education sectors. It also has to be financed, and the government does. We have to introduce a new five-year master's education, the majority parties have said. Not all parties in the Storting are for that, but we are for that and believe that it will be a quality promise for the school, and then we also need to strengthen the teacher training, as we do with 62 million. kr. In addition, there are funds for both PPU sites, more study places and much more. As far as research policy is concerned, the government continues with what we said we should do. The special thing is not just to present a long-term research and higher education plan. The special thing is that the cooperation parties and the government have actually followed up, and that they had binding, concrete escalation plans, which have not only been followed up every year, but are also reinforced by the budgetary agreement. There's a lot of effort on fellows, as I mentioned, there's a lot of effort on major societal challenges, and there's also a lot of effort to turn research into jobs, to say the least. In addition, we continue to increase the study grants, more than the price increase, so that the students will receive more each year than they have received in the past. At the same time, the majority of parties have decided to receive 11 months of study support. When we combine it with a record level of 2,200 new student homes, I believe we see an offensive knowledge budget that provides a good basis for the future. Then I must also be allowed to use a few words on some of the proposals that have come from the opposition. I'm going to start by saying something nice, and it's that I think the Workers' Party's alternative budgets are far better now in opposition than the knowledge budgets they delivered in position. I think that's good. That being said, there is a long way between rhetoric and reality. Let me take a few examples, if we go into the figures in the budget: the Labour Party says they're going to have 3,000 student homes; it's underfunded. The Labour Party says that they will have 3,000 new places to study and say that it will help solve major societal challenges, but if you look at the figures, there is a large gap between rhetoric and reality in funded places of study. The working party says that they should have more specialised school places; it is also underfunded. It is then combined with a number of completely incomprehensible cuts, e.g. cut into just schemes to turn our research into jobs. I agree that research has a self-esteem, but it is also important that research gives us something to live on in the future. For example, when you have: Cutters in FORNY with large amounts of money are just cut off from making research – knowledge – jobs. The lot cuts in addition to following students who fall out of school, and has unspecified cuts that can hit real-time and read and write bets, without saying anything more about it. The rhetoric is, if possible, even a little bit more pussy. I heard several representatives here mention that the increase was so large for the private schools in next year's budget, but it's an impact adjustment of something over 200 million. kr in year. And it's interesting to look at the historical figures: in the 2007–08 budget – otherwise, the red-greens were in government, if anyone needs to be reminded of it – increased the cost of private schools, which is exactly the same scheme, by 338.8 million. kr. In the 2009-2010 financial year, it increased by 256 million. kr. In the red-green budget for 2013–2014, private schools increased by 380 million. kr – a record increase. So not only are you trying to score a political point on a consistency adjustment, but the increase in our period is actually below the average increase in private schools in the red-green period. I believe that there is evidence that people are more concerned with rhetoric than with the reality of politics. We're not done, and it's important to say. It is not the case that with this budget all the government's promises or ambitions are fulfilled, or the promises and ambitions of all the cooperation parties are fulfilled. But every year – through the budget presented, and through the budgetary agreement with the cooperation parties – we take one step towards what we promised, namely that the budget should prioritise knowledge every year and should give priority to knowledge and migration higher than what has been done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e810	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e813	It was strange and I would say almost at the limit of a little embarrassing to hear the statements of the Council of State. I think he's the first government council in the fall that uses over half its main contribution to talk about the opposition instead of talking about its own budget, and I think that's a little bit about a budget that's very far from the promises, the expectations and the image you create of being a school party. In this year's budget, one had 100 times more to tax cuts than to increase initial training – I think this year's figure is about 50. You just don't prioritize school. The most strange thing is about conversion, where you spend a lot of record oil money, that's the same amount in three years that we spent in eight, and yet you don't get any more space for students. Should not more places of study be a totally obvious strategy to meet unemployment and give people the skills to take new jobs where they are created?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e820	Firstly, I believe it is also right for the Council of State to participate in the debate and correct some misconceptions, such as: on the increase in funds for private schools, which has been mentioned several times. So I fully agree that it might make sense to increase the allocation to the number of places of study. There was something inside the government's budget, among other things. to more PPU sites and something else, and cooperation parties have also increased more, inter alia. to major technology training and computer science training. What I pointed out is that there has to be a match between what you say about the number of places and what you grant. If you grant e.g. 3 000 places of study and says that it should go to important welfare subjects, in which case it must be assumed that there is a teacher and nurse or important technology such as computer science, for example. – but then it finances as if it were to go to the subjects in the lowest payment category, it is not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e827	So even in a direct question in the line-and-line exchange, the Council of State is able to talk about the opposition's budget pretty much again. As of 2017, we hope that it will also be the government's budget, and then he will be able to continue with it – as an opposition representative. But once again, let's ask questions about the efforts of government and state councils. For a while back, we got the Djupedal Committee's attitude, with a lot of suggestions to help some of those in Norway who have the worst, many thousands who are afraid to go to school every day, and who are subjected to prolonged and systematic harassment. For the time being, very little of this has been followed up. It's been sent to the hearing. Why doesn't the Council of States do anything right away? He sent a bill to Stortinget that specifically said it did not change the law. This is an area that is not very suitable for unsubstantiated symbolism policy, here it must be acted upon. Will the Council of State complain to all those affected that he has not done more, but instead send empty legislative proposals to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e834	Now, first of all, I think we should leave previous debates on legislative proposals, especially when it was a broad majority – including the Labour Party – who voted in favour of the representative Giske describes as an empty bill. But what I want to say to all the kids and all the parents who experience bullying in school is that we have a huge amount left to do, and I'm at least as impatient as them. That's one of the reasons why when we got into the government and saw that the previous government had put down the Djupedal committee – which was very good, because here it doesn't just hold with the appropriations, we have to go through our anti- bullying policy from A to Å – we saw at the same time that they had been given too long time. We were more impatient and therefore asked the Djupedal committee to speed up and present earlier. Then we're now working in the department as fast as we can to look at what can be completely fundamental and extensive changes to large systems. I have also notified some of the things we are already doing. I've said that we're going to introduce what someone has called bullying. We're going to clean up so that it makes it easier for parents to find the way, and we're also spending a lot of money in this year's budget on anti- bullying measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e841	An attempt has been made to create the impression that post-secondary schools will have a massive rise in next year's government budget. That's not right. Unfortunately, one could almost say, because the economy in primary schools is relatively intrusive, and I look forward to the ministry following previous requests from the Committee to consider how the costs of renting and building can be incorporated into the grant base of the boarding schools. I would like to ask a question about a particular type of incubator, namely schools that receive the so-called top-notch premium. There's a big difference between how this grant turns out for different schools, and I think all of these schools now see the need for a greater level of equal treatment. But it is only the Christian People's Party and the Left who are within the comment in the budget position, where we ask the Ministry to review this practice. However, will the Council of State carry out such a review, and if not — why?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e848	I do not have to comment on the representative’s question, which I fully agree with, namely what is involved in the allocation of private schools – or colleges, as it is now called – to do. In the case of upper secondary schools, it is quite right that there are different grants for different upper secondary schools. I have to say, I don't think a review is necessary. The government, and therefore also the majority parties, did something about this in its first budget. Then money was put on the table to get a greater level of equal treatment. We haven't been given priority this year. This is, to a large extent, a priority issue and simply a question of appropriations. When many good actions are to be given priority to each other, this was not a heavy enough measure this year. At the same time, I know the issue very well, and I worked with it myself when I was at Stortinget. The ski in Telemark has a very good top-notch gym, and I understand the criticism that comes from those top-notch gyms that don't have the same funding starting point as the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e856	To everyone's surprise, I'm not going to ask the Council of State about qualifications, but I'm going to tell the Council of State that I think it's good that he has agreed to the Christian People's Party's proposal to increase the teacher's density at the lowest levels in primary school. As the Council of State knows, I have just asked a written question to the Council of State about the impact on the learning outcomes of an additional school year and whether it showed whether it had any learning outcomes of the 10th stage that we had introduced the 6-year reform. The government replied that there was an investigation. There was little research, but there was a study that showed that there was no increase in learning outcomes that we had introduced for a whole year. Since we know little about the 6-year-olds in school and have no overview of how many students there are per teacher in 1st grade, and when we know that one has no benefit at 10th grade, my question about the council will make sure that there's a statistic about how many students there are per teacher for the very least.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e863	That's a very good question. Unfortunately, my answer must be no. I think the numbers we have today are good enough as an indication, but it's absolutely right that we don't have reporting requirements that make us know exactly how big classes there are on top of everything at national level, or that we know exactly how many teachers there are at any time in any class. The reason why I'm skeptical about doing that – I should like to know that it would be useful information – is simply that we have to set some limits on what we ask municipalities and schools to report on. The more information we want about this, the more individual teachers or individual schools have to report in. I am very afraid that such a system could easily become unmanageable. That being said, I think there are also good ways to get better information. For example, the major problem with the 6-year reform, to which there were many critical votes, is that it was started without being connected simultaneously with a research plan from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e870	The Council of State and the Left agree that skills requirements are important and good for the school. For our part, it's about knowledge that means something, that having those study credits makes a difference. And especially in school, we have to assume that education actually matters. At the same time, this case has caused a lot of concern, and one of the things I perceive that many people are concerned about is that there should not be enough capacity in continuing and continuing training to ensure that the teachers who need it and who want it and have the opportunity to do so can get the further and further training needed within the ten years set. So my question to the Council of State is, is it good enough capacity, or is this something we have to get back to in later budgets? And is there any other action the Council of State sees that we can take to make this process a little smoother?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e879	Let me first say that I look forward to answering all the questions that the Storting had to have on this matter when it comes to the treatment. I'm going to answer the questions now as well. The answer is yes, that's enough capacity. But the assumption for this whole arrangement is that the municipalities use the exemption that they have. It was not a dispensation that came now, but that was already there with the old skills requirements. It must be used. That's about it. 40,000 teachers who, if they want to, and if they use the system, will need further training. We have said ten years as a framework initially, and this means that with good planning it will be possible to send all these teachers through further training and to have the capacity at the top to provide further training to other teachers, both in other subjects and to teachers who already have their study credits, but who want to complete them professionally. So we mean that the system is dimensioned for that. But it assumes that the municipalities are using the dispensation option that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e884	Outside now there is a large group of Samaritans, representing the southern Sami environment in Norway. It's a huge environment. Language users are getting fewer and fewer. It's a language that's on the edge of the dot. Maybe it's hard to save the language. This means that all measures need to be put in place to help save it. We know how important language is to identity – which is a cultural phenomenon, which accommodates all the different forms of practice that have built up through history. As a conservative, at least the minister should have respect for it. Yet one agrees to demands that cost hundreds of millions, which you don't believe yourself, as more teachers. But when it comes to those slightly over three million dollars that are going to save the same ball in the Hattfjell valley, it's very, very difficult, and the government doesn't notify any clear solutions either. What will the Minister say to the Southern Sami environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e889	I fully agree with what the representative, Mr. Knag Fylkesnes, says, both about the value of language, about our responsibility to ensure that Southern Sami is also taken care of, and about our responsibility to ensure that in all language initiatives Sami is also a natural part. I heard the representative earlier say that the bet was in Norwegian, but not in Sami. In all the bets we have, where Norwegian as a language is included, where Norwegian is included, Sami is also included. As for the school in Hattfjelldal, there are two things that are important. The first is that the school, which is a boarding school, has not had students in school in several years. It costs a lot of money to maintain a boarding school, maintain a building, where there are no students. The second is that the school has distance learning — and that’s important — and the students who today offer distance learning in southern Sami via the school in Hattfjelldal should, of course, also receive a training offer in southern Sami further, via distance learning. There are five cases of this today in different parts of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e896	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e899	First, a small comment on the State Council's posts, the discussion of public/private bet. The point was not that money was spent in private schools, the point was that less money was spent in public schools. And in the private schools there are few, in the public schools there are many. Development and development in the higher education sector, which I am going to talk about, has laid the foundation for the knowledge society in which we live, and so it must continue. The Workers' Party supports research efforts, but we are concerned about the lack of investment in certain sectors, because they experience cutbacks in research. In addition, too little attention is paid to the wide range of professional environments, in particular the major professional disciplines, which are intended to ensure good research-based education and training of nurses, health professionals for the rest of the country, teachers and engineers. The Labour Party believes that new recruitment positions are necessary, but the number of government proposals is too low to meet the real needs of the entire sector. Moreover, we do not have a justification for the distribution of these. The higher education institutions have little access to competition in these positions. We will set up hundreds of recruitment positions in addition to government budget proposals in subjects that train candidates for the welfare state's professions. The drop-out rate in higher education is high, although not as much is discussed as elsewhere in the education system, and the quality is variable. The Labour Party is critical that the Minister of Knowledge does little to improve the quality of studies at its universities and higher education institutions. The National Auditor has pointed it out. The previous big business asked the government to do something about it. Nothing seems to happen before the 2017 election year. We're in a hurry. That is why we are proposing to put in place a system of incentives for the next year of studies to test out a mentoring system, where professional staff are given a special responsibility to follow up students through education. These institutions will then be able to make an effort to reduce the decline and improve the quality. Quality and knowledge shall be permeated by efforts related to the challenges of the welfare country. There is a need for more research and innovation in the welfare field. The Research Council should therefore have its own research programme for professional research, in particular related to nursing, teacher training, child protection training and other subjects of public welfare production. We've put in $65 million. kr to such a programme. Many institutions are now in the midst of major changes. They were ordered out on the friars to find partners, and the question might have been, ‘Do you want to get worse at home tonight?’ And someone got a hold. This is why it is now part of the process of merging, and it is of course intended that this should improve the quality of both education and research. But it costs with such structural changes, and it will take time for the results to come. Several institutions have been clear about this, and NTNU alone believes that their merger will reach 250 million. kr. Then it's 'Monday throughout the year, there's nothing to laugh about'. The amount of 250 million. kr is significantly larger than that granted by the government. If that happens, it remains to be seen, but I expect the government to follow up. Mergers should be carried out without impairing the quality of the study or research effort. So to the construction and infrastructure situation. There is a lack of a transparent concrete plan for necessary investments and new buildings in the higher education sector. And it is strange that the recently adopted long-term research and higher education plan does not include construction and infrastructure. Besides, 30 million were cut. kr from the government, the Left and Christian People's Party, and it shows that they do not take this situation seriously. This leads to a lack of predictability of the sector and a political battle in the budgets at the expense of long-term national priorities. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a plan for the overall investment needs of the university and higher education sectors. That is why we are proposing such a plan today. It is unfortunate that the new funding system is being treated as part of the State budget. These types of principles should be subject to much more thorough treatment. And why does the government not want to justify why they leave more of the expert group's proposals behind? This applies, inter alia, to: the breakdown of the different cost categories for the different types of training, recommending four categories, not six. We believe that the government should come back with this matter after dialogue with relevant university, university and professional organisations. In addition, it is the expert group’s proposal to introduce development agreements – why is it not phased into the budget? Why is this not concluded? We believe that this should be carried out and that this work should start immediately. I think I'll stop here, because I guess now's the time. I'm coming back with a new post, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e922	In 2013, the four cooperation parties joined forces to choose to realise the knowledge society. It was necessary because we are one of the countries that uses the most in the world per student, but unfortunately not getting good enough results back. There are too many differences in student performance, because many fall from before they have completed high school, and social background plays too much role in how well students do it in school. With this as a hindrance was and there is a need for a new and more offensive policy. In addition, we know that Norway is now undergoing a switchover. A transition we're really in the middle of already, which means that even more than before, our students and students will have to be out in the world and compete with students and students from other countries who have a school where they learn more, and where there are less social differences. This is the third knowledge budget of these four cooperation parties. The three budgets have now seen a shift in momentum in more and more areas. We know, for example. at 20 pst. by students leaving high school, scores at or below the critical limit in mathematics. We know that 65 pst. by those who strike in a Vg1 subject at secondary school, in a real subject. For this reason, these four parties have joined forces on a real-life vocational strategy in which we adopt an additional hour of natural sciences in primary school, introduce and extend the real-school system and early-work rates for real-life education, as we did with great success in reading. We're phased another 1.5 billion. kr into the interest compensation scheme, which is now 15 billion. kr, because the students and teachers deserve a good working environment. We know that vocational education in Norwegian school has not been good enough. That is why we are continuing to implement and further step up a professional lift, including: by requiring those who submit tenders to the State to accept apprentices, and for the fourth time we increase the apprenticeship allowance. As a bracket to it: the working party proposes to introduce increased apprenticeship grants from the fall, not from January as we suggest. Luckily, it's not adopted, because it would be a very accident for the apprentices who would have a place to study during the spring. Enterprises will then, of course, delay accepting apprentices because the new scheme will start from the harvest. Now it comes from 1 January with the votes of the four cooperation parties. In addition, we build record-breaking student homes, and we are now introducing 11 months of student support. We have a research budget that is hailed by the Academics, the same organisation that under the previous government had to send out the press release "From Sleep Cutting to Disaster" as the red-green government presented a fairly poor research budget. But our most important commitment, both through these three budgets and in the coming years, is the teacher. We know how important a good and professional teacher is for the student's performance. This is why it has started, continues to escalate and continues to promise to escalate the solid teacher's vow: with increased admission requirements for teacher training, with a level of competence for those in school who do not have completed teacher training, with their own professional teacher's lift coming into this budget, we introduce the master's degree in teacher training from 2017, and there will be a time of further education, with 5,000 teachers each year receiving further training. Yes, we introduce a requirement for competence, a requirement that is already made for the teachers who are trained in teacher training today, namely that you have to be immersed in the common subjects in which you teach. That's something we also require the municipalities to give in ten years to all the good teachers we already have in school. Our promise is that as a parent or student you should know that the teacher you meet in the classroom has depression and the relevant competence in the common subject the teacher is there to teach. That is our clear promise. I want to make it clear that if it's the way the Center Party thinks it's not important, that education doesn't work, that it doesn't have anything to say about the competence the teacher has in the subjects the teacher has to teach the students, then there's a conflict I'd like to apply for. The representative, Martin Henriksen, said in a line exchange – I am very pleased that he said – that he was in favour of the same requirements of competence. It's very good, but then it's very funny that the Workers' Party will not make the same demands for the municipalities as us, namely that they should give it to them. But that's how the Workers' Party goes on in the knowledge policy. Fortunately, we have the four cooperation parties, in a majority, who adopt offensive knowledge policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e943	After a blue-blue wind swept across the country in 2013 and led to the Right Party and the Advance Party forming government together, this has really put its tracks in knowledge policy, and especially in higher education and research. When we stood here one year ago, most people talked about a recently submitted long-term plan for research and higher education, and that they were looking forward to its treatment and follow-up in recent years' budget. I was among these. Now we are here again and we can see that the plan is already being followed up next year by well over 800 million. kr, such as shall finance more than 300 recruitment posts, 100 million. kr more to FRIPRO and about 130 mill. more on incentives for increased participation in Horizon 2020. The rest cut is definitely over. The real growth of the R & D budget is over 4 pst. And for the first time we use over 1 pst. of GDP in publicly funded research and development. It's a milestone. Although it helps to reduce GDP growth, it helps even more with a large number of people who actually prioritize this field. Politicians and others in the public debate talk a lot about conversion and a green shift. The last one was even updated by the Language Council last week. If there's something we know, it's that if you're going to convert a society, it's the combination of knowledge, technology and the market that has to drive it forward. We cannot subsidize ourselves out of lower investments in the petroleum sector, as someone in this room thinks. The Stone Age did not end because one was running out of stone, but because man gained more knowledge and took advantage of the experience that had been gained. We as a society have also gained some experience as a proud oil and gas nation. Although the stone age did not end because you went empty of stone, it was not like throwing the rest of the stone you had at the stake in pure protest. Nor shall we do so with the remaining reserves of oil and gas. Therefore, it is good news that the Demo 2000 Programme of the Research Council will be considerably strengthened next year – both because we can become even better at extracting hydrocarbons, and because the rest of the world, a growing world, will need ‘soft light and much heat’ in the years to come. Nevertheless, we have to prepare for a future in which oil and gas are going to play a less role in the Norwegian economy than they have done in the last few decades. It is therefore good to see that the tools we have to create new industries and jobs through research and innovation are strengthened – and that they are actually used by industry. In recent years, focus has been placed on actions such as the User-led Innovation Arenas, the SkattenFUNN and FORNY2020, with strong growth in the budgets of higher education institutions. Innovation and development take place everywhere, both at universities and colleges, in large and small enterprises and among ‘four fine armchairs’ in a garage. It has to be if we're going to change society. Therefore, it is good that these instruments are strengthened, but it is also a pity that the Workers' Party is cutting into such an important programme as FORNY2020. One thing The Progress Party has fought for for for many years, is better student funding for the country's students. Being able to be a full-time student is one of the greatest prerequisites for more people to complete in normal time, which is a goal for all the parties. It's also more productive for society if you spend a few extra hours at the reading room instead of spending the hours in many cases on a job that is of little relevance to the study. Al Gore's hockey stick has a new use. There has been a shift in student funding over the last two years, two years in which it has actually been adjusted beyond price growth. This will now be increased even more after the agreement on phase-in of 11 months of study aid. It's a big boost that many people have been talking about for many years. Now it finally happens. It must be ‘the loop in life’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e960	Today we're discussing the government's third state budget, and when we got the budget in October, I was excited: maybe it's now they're coming, the new, big bets? But it was a little new. Once again, there is continuing training of teachers. It is obvious that the bet that all parties in this room agree – ear to ear – will be continued. In addition, it was a little natural science. But what about all the other stuff the school's going to do? What about all the other assumptions that need to be in place for learning to happen? What about the psychosocial learning environment of pupils? What about further developing ICT skills? Does not the government have its own ambitions regarding early efforts? Do they blow up to facilitate the broad learning vision, health and physical activity? What about the measures to give the teacher better time to help each student achieve its objectives? Once again, we have to say that the Right Party government budget for primary school is a sluggish school budget. But fortunately, we have a government that does not have a majority, and that has to negotiate in Stortinget to get a budget into port. I am sending a little thank you to the higher powers that we have the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have got a little bit of the budget twisted in a slightly more correct direction. I am thinking in particular of the funds allocated to several teachers from 1 to 4. steps. We just wish that there was a little more money put on the table, so that you could make a real and noticeable boost, which ensures that all students in school get help to learn the basic reading, writing and math skills early in high school. Research shows that there is a close link between learning outcomes, nutrition and physical and mental health. It is about facilitating learning. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to redefine the strengthening of the health care service. We want more physical activity in school, and we actually think that an apple a day not only keeps the doctor away, but that it also contributes to a clearer head that is a little bit more prepared for learning. Too many schoolchildren start the day with a lump of stomach, a feeling of not being good enough, a feeling of loneliness. Nine months ago, the Djupedal Committee presented its recommendations to combat bullying in school. We therefore had great expectations that the minister would really take hold of this field in the state budget, but it was thin stuff. Most of it's going on, and then it's going to be this web portal. The working party is impatient and proposes that 60 million be spent. kr more than the government of measures to combat bullying. This is money to go to better school-home collaboration, municipal emergency teams in all municipalities, more environmental workers and school-based skills development, because it is urgent to move forward. But I'm going to be completely honest, because you have to be in this room: these measures are important, but it'll be like a drop in the sea compared to the impact the municipal budgets have on the everyday lives of students and teachers. Thousands of newly elected municipal politicians are in these days and will adopt the school budgets for the next year. The KS budget study confirms once again that it is cut at school, for teachers and students. About 40 pst. by the country's advisers, it is worse to make budgets this year than last year, and about. 50 pst. believes it is equally difficult. The councillor in Stavanger is once again proposing to cut 20 million this year. kr in the school budget. In Halden, the cut is over 10 million. kr. The working party increases the transfers to the municipalities by almost 4 billion. kr more than the government proposed. I think it's amazing that the government, despite the fact that we have more money to spend than ever, and the priority of billions in tax cuts, is unable to make the necessary priorities for the municipalities. I have to repeat: it doesn't help much with a couple of extra teachers in high school if the cut at the other end eats up that bet. Ten-million-dollar cut. The school budget of a municipality is not primarily a cut in laundry clothes, writing books and museum visits – it is a cut in teaching positions. There will be fewer teachers to help students achieve their goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e978	Norway is facing the most challenging situation in many decades, both in terms of dealing with the influx of asylum and also in order to meet the future without a petroleum sector with the same driving force in the economy as before. The situation requires political accountability, so that it can be ‘like now’. Then it is good that we have a government that dares to take political action and ensures the necessary conversion. Then it is good that we have a government that, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, has a responsible economic policy that strengthens Norwegian competitiveness in order to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society, as opposed to the Workers' Party that has chosen to budget with air money or fantasy, and where political promises must be lubricated with more oil money, not less, as they claim. The alternative may be increased taxes on Norwegian ownership at a time when we need an increase in new businesses, new ideas and more entrepreneurs. If we are to ensure lasting well-being, we must create more, not more taxes. Today, therefore, we are discussing an offensive knowledge budget that promises the knowledge society, which contributes to more people in work, which ensures increased activity, and which demands the necessary transformation. We have initiatives that give a holistic approach from kindergarten to students, students and adults, and together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we raise the quality of kindergartens and start social cohesion already with learning through play. In school, we strengthen from early school efforts to raising vocational education and the focus on basic skills and opportunities for completion of education follows all the way to students or adults out of work or on a voluntary basis. In doing so, we create more opportunities for everyone and help to increase the number of people in the labour market. Particular emphasis is placed on vocational training. When Norway is in transition, the future will also require more skilled workers at a high level. The statistical central agency has previously estimated that Norway will lack 110 000 skilled workers in construction, electronics and mechanical engineering in 2030. As the bourgeois parties pointed out in the opposition, we have been overtime with a professional investment for quite a long time. Politicians should be measured by how to prioritize and deliver when you have power, and it is therefore especially gratifying to note that we have finally had a shift in the pace of the effort to know and research, and that vocational training is now given a proper boost and a clear political focus. Since the government change, the apprenticeship allowance is increased for the fifth time, now NOK 15 000 more per contract, and in addition, more apprentices are now required in state enterprises, and public tenders should now be needed in order to put in place even more apprenticeship places. Apprenticeships with special needs receive increased support, practical letters are required in all counties, the vocational correction of the common subjects continues, vocational trainers are offered continuing training, and the government now has five disciplines designed to create an even more relevant composition of the professions against the needs of industry and society. Vocational schools are also encouraged to invest in teaching materials in the maritime sector, and higher quality requirements are imposed on the sector in order to further enhance their status and content. The announced announcement will make 2016 the year of masters and colleges, which is a good thing when skilled skilled workers will become fully central to the further development of Norwegian industry and industry. It is now important in the future that the county councils, such as school owners and the business community, help us take out the potential of our efforts, get more people to complete and pass higher education and ensure Norway many skilled workers for the future. At the same time, it is particularly important that local government politicians have the courage to dimension their training provision in such a way that there is sufficient apprenticeship space and so that the search can increase in other disciplines lacking candidates. That's how we reduce the number of students who put out an education where it's not possible to get an apprenticeship, and where it's impossible to complete the education and to pass. There is little doubt that the reforms and political action taken by the government to strengthen the knowledge society will help build good welfare services, equip Norway for the future and strengthen our ability to adapt. Our solutions and ideas will make Norway better equipped to meet a future where we need more economic engines, and where we use our tax money smarter, so that we can still be sure that our welfare systems can be strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e995	The president sees that the committee has put its love on tranny songs and gets receipts with: «Soft screams and little wool».
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e998	There are many who can confirm that in the first half of 2015, the Minister of Knowledge traveled around the country and said this would be the academic year. But nothing happened, and in a line change with me in this room, he tried to explain this to me before the summer that he meant in 2016. 2015 or 2016 – it plays a small role. The disappointing thing is that according to the budget, there is going to be just as little going on with the technical school in 2016 as the knowledge minister actually got done in 2015. The nice words of the government and the majority parties are not followed up by action, and it does little to the effect that the representative Gudmundsen now and in a line change with the cooperation party Left talked about the importance of the vocational school. It's just words – or to use the wordings of the Council of State – it just becomes rhetoric and not reality. It looks like we have to wait for the alert message, but there is a lot that can and should be done before that, and it is urgent. It is urgent because we know that Norway will need a great deal of professional competence in the future, and we must start training them now. It is urgent because there are many unemployed skilled workers who could have taken the time to acquire new skills, which are important for the individual in terms of further careers, but also for the labour and business sectors. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to create 300 more jobs in 2016 as part of a stepping-up plan for 1 000 new post-secondary school places over a three-year period. It's a shame we don't get a majority for this, but it's another example of the government's lack of willingness to put in place good measures to dampen unemployment. Local study centres spread throughout the country are important for providing the full population of Norway with a real opportunity to take education regardless of their place of residence, their situation and their economy. The centres are of great importance for us to succeed in meeting the need for change and empowerment. They have broad local support and cooperate closely with local businesses, municipalities and county municipalities, and they also provide a cost-effective model and are an excellent regional policy instrument. However, the role of the centres in the Norwegian educational flora is unclear both in terms of organisation and economy, and therefore we, together with the SV and the Centre Party, promoted the following proposals when dealing with the Structural Communication for Universities and Universities: ‘The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with a case on the role of study centres in the future education system.’ At the time we did not get a majority, but it is a pleasure that a unanimous committee today recommends the Stortinge to vote in favour of this. It is also gratifying that the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, opposes the Government's proposal to designate 10 pst. of the training grant to the study associations. Such a requirement would result in a great deal of time and effort on documentation and reporting and would result in significant privacy challenges. Now the associations can spend time on adult education and inclusion, instead of increasing bureaucracy and administration. I just remind you that the Workers' Party proposed to grant $10 million. extra to the study associations, so that they could have strengthened their integration work. It is good that we do not have earmarks, and it is good that we should look at the role of study centres, but what is not good is that the majority are now cutting in the allocation of basic competences in the workplace, so-called BKA. The BKA has an important role in the Norwegian education system, especially as regards the possibility for adult refugees to qualify for employment, and we believe that the cut is going to be somewhat odd in the light of today’s situation. The working party therefore proposes to strengthen the BKA by 5 million. kr. Finally, a few words about church buildings. I think it is alarming and a bit of a shame that the minister of the church is not in place when her budget chapters are being dealt with in the Stortinget. We are pleased that the stave church program has been followed up by the government, but everyone knows that the need for maintenance of other church buildings is great. We find it alarming that the government in its draft budget has removed the entire interest compensation for upgrading the buildings. The Workers' Party's draft budget would provide the scheme with a framework of 1 billion. kr. It's a shame that government doesn't see the importance of the common cultural heritage that church buildings represent. The fact that the Left and Christian People's Party gets it in place in a conciliation is good, but those who are concerned about national and international history, church history, history of architecture, art history, local history, etc. should, with concern, note the Right and the Party's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1020	This year's budget has been presented with a background of various concerns related to the situation in our country. It concerns the labour market, the troubled international situation and the migration challenges that our country must also contribute to. In this context, I am pleased that the four cooperation parties have stuck to the government's basic position of promoting a budget to strengthen activity in the labour market and to ensure the transition to working and business life. In the Health Declaration, the government stated that it would meet future challenges of investing in education, skills and innovation, so that we can translate knowledge into value creation. This is also reflected in the knowledge budget of the year. It is a strength that governments and cooperation parties follow up the areas of activity over several years. It creates trust and predictability. Many budget lines could deserve to be brought forward in this debate. The government has proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of research and higher education. Some have also been strengthened by the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. Kristin Vinje has underlined the strong budget research effort. The long-term research and higher education plan is followed up by around 885 million. kr. This provides an opportunity to follow up the escalation plan with 125 new recruitment posts. It is proposed that 25 million be allocated. SEK to research infrastructure and 135 million. kr to incentives for participation in Horizon 2020. In addition, 113 temporary recruitment positions were included as part of the employment package and 50 in the context of the introduction of new teacher training. At the top of the equation, another 100 recruitment positions were added to the pot. This has allowed for a number of good priorities both in the field of subjects and institutions. The strong commitment to recruitment positions is now being made for the third consecutive year. Overall, 683 recruitment posts have now arrived since 2014. It is loving and not least necessary for research efforts to be made. In those parts of the country which are exposed to high unemployment and which have a strong need for labour conversion, the ability and capacity of educational institutions to cooperate with the business life of the region is particularly important. In my region, recruitment positions and investment in the regional research funds in Agder and in the West are dear. Competence and research resources are important. The same is true of research facilities. A long-term investment in this year's budget is the follow-up funds of the Mechatronic Innovation Lab, MIL, in the Ministry of Industry. MIL received its start-up appropriations in the revised national budget in spring and is now being followed up in the conciliation between the four cooperation parties. It will be a good contribution to the country's research infrastructure when the new laboratories in Grimstad are finished. It will be an important cooperation venue for industrial research and development work for an environment that has already achieved the Global Center of Expertise status. In addition, the government in previous budgets has invested in the Ocean Space Centre and Life Science building at the UiO. That's great. I would also like to highlight the work that is now being done to strengthen vocational training. We need good professionals in our country, and we need more professionals. The government will provide more engineers and skilled workers with the opportunity to take practical education. 350 new study places are earmarked for this. Here, applicants with education in mathematics, natural sciences or technology can be given priority in areas with increasing unemployment. This will be an important contribution to improving the quality of vocational training. In 2016, the trade school announcement and the message of lifelong learning and alienation will also come. There is also a need to promote the government and the involvement of the cooperation parties in the students. Grants are granted for 2,200 new student housing in 2016 – a historical investment in student housing. Study support is strengthened in addition to both price and salary growth, and through the budgetary agreement, it is also proposed to introduce 11 months of study support in stages from 2017 to 2020. No one is in any doubt that this is a very good budget plan for our students, at least not the students themselves. In total, the government and the cooperation parties' targeted efforts in the university and higher education sectors mean a great deal for students, lecturers, researchers and trade unions all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1048	It seems that this government's recipe for making Norway less oil dependent is to make sure that we have the least possible oil money left to spend in a few years. This is a budget with record oil spending. Nevertheless, we see that the government does not use the action space in school. We see that they are uninitiative in their efforts towards increasing unemployment, and that they are completely inconceivable in how to, for example. may use higher education to counteract unemployment. In October, 127 000 people were unemployed, the largest in 20 years. 40,000 young people aged 15 to 24 are unemployed. At the same time, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, we can lack 40,000 teachers, 35,000 nurses and care workers in 2025. At the same time, we have had a record increase this year in the number of applicants for higher education. 7 500 qualified applicants were in the autumn without study offers. In such a situation, therefore, the government does not have the ability to use higher education to provide more opportunities to study, provide more skills and opportunities for conversion. The contrast of the previous government is pretty big. The government has shown minimal interest in giving more people the opportunity to study. Before the year’s budget, they had proposed 24 new places of study in their draft government budget. The Christian People's Party and the Left saved some of the era through the revised national budget. Now the government's proposal is 405 new study places. In eight years, the red-green government allocated 23 400 new places of study. During the financial crisis in 2008, a situation of increasing unemployment, the number of places of study increased by 4,300 to counteract unemployment. Now we see a government that doesn't have the ability to use this opportunity to counteract the unemployment. The Labour Party proposes 3 000 new study places in its budget to combat unemployment and to meet the needs of more professionals. I have to admit that it is very special to see a government councillor, the knowledge minister, stand on this platform and stand up because he believes that the Workers' Party has cut the study places in the wrong category. Well, there's a couple of things to say to that. First of all, it's wrong. Here, the Council of State must either learn to read the budget or stop spreading incorrect information to the Storting. The working party has study places within both categories A, B, C, D and E, among others. 1 000 Category D places of study, which are therefore teacher training. The council simply has to go home and do the homework before he brings that kind of information to the Stortinget. So I also have to say that no matter what category we had put those places of study in, the country's students are most concerned about having the opportunity to study. I'm not going to let myself be discredited by a minister of knowledge who comes with that kind of criticism, who has 2,595 fewer places of study in his budget than the Workers' Party has in its alternative budget. We also want to strengthen the professions. Skilled skilled workers are crucial if we are ready to build the country for the future. If we are to meet the challenges, we need to give students a school with more practice early in school, better and more relevant theory. We need to link school and working life more closely, to recruit vocational teachers and to create more apprenticeships. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to spend 274 million in its alternative budget. more than the government in the professional field and in skilled workers, on equipment, on apprenticeship grants, in vocational teachers and in vocational schools. We are pleased with all the measures that come into place from this government, but they have largely switched open doors, promoting measures from the Storing Message that was presented by a red-green government in 2013. For all intents and purposes: it is fine, and it is gratifying that this government is passing on measures from a red-green bigmouth message, but that a Right-front party government had to take inspiration and ambition from the red-green government, had to go to the red-green government to find new ideas and better solutions, I had not seen come. To conclude, the most important thing to combat unemployment, to provide a good school, is the municipal economy. When the municipal budgets are tight, it's school and it's older. That is why the Workers' Party proposes 4 billion. kr more to Norwegian municipalities. We can afford that because we give a completely different priority than the government: welfare ahead of tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1070	I'm going to say something about the submitted state budget for program category 08.40, the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views. Freedom of belief and life is a fundamental value in our society. Everyone shall have the right to express and exercise his or her faith or outlook on life. More than ever, it is important that we pursue a policy that facilitates dialogue across religious and life-seeking divisions, so that Norwegian society can be a joint project. Dialogue builds trust and supports democracy by providing the basis for a community of disagreements where different positions may be violated. The Government has therefore increased support to the Council of Ministers for the Doctrine of Faith and Life and to the Islamic Council of Norway. The landscape of belief and life is characterized by an increasing diversity, alongside a people's church with long traditions, which is still an important part of people's lives. The Norwegian Church has some 3.8 million members, i.e. 74 pst. by the population. At the same time, 11 pst. of the population members of a religious or life-view society other than the Norwegian Church. About half of these are members of a Christian religious community. Islam is the second largest religion in Norway, c. 2.7 pst. the population are members of an Islamic religious community. The Ministry of Culture will look more closely at the future policy of faith and life and has technically arranged for this by a new budget category: the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies. We are in a time of historical importance for the Norwegian Church. In a short time, the government will present proposals for changes to the law, which means that the Norwegian Church can be separated from the state and established as an independent legal entity. We then get a clear distinction between the state and the Church. The Norwegian Church will have greater autonomy. In the work towards an increasingly independent Church, we have laid stones on stones. We've taken one step at a time. Through such step-by-step and thorough processes, we have achieved a broad consensus on the changes. It's the church agreement, which has its origin in the Storting, of course. The church meeting in 2015 has largely concluded on the proposals. I hope the proposals will be widely welcomed here too in Stortinget. I see the committee's proposal to grant 6 million. kr in conversion funds to the Norwegian Church as an expression for that very thing. The next step is legislation for the Norwegian Church, which is more of a framework character, and which means further independence from the Church. This work will be seen in connection with the government's goal of a comprehensive law for all religious and life-view societies. In 2015, the government removed the obligation to live with the priests. The traditional service housing system for the priests, as we know it from a long time ago, has thus ceased. I am convinced that this has been the right decision. The place of residence and the service housing system of the pastors has been necessary to ensure the performance of all parts of the country. In our time, other instruments need to be used to achieve the same objective. It's suggested that the Seaman's Church gets an increase of 2 million. kr in the budget for 2016. This is important in order for the Church of the Sea to be able to continue its diaconal work for and among the Nordics residing in or travelling abroad. I see that the Committee and the Storting are concerned with the state of our church buildings. It is therefore gratifying that a new investment framework has been proposed next year for the interest compensation scheme for the refurbishment of church buildings. The demand within the scheme has not been large enough this year, but I hope municipalities and church owners will intensify their efforts for the churches. As you know, the maintenance service is significant and the financial responsibility of the municipalities is burdensome in many places. In a situation of many challenges in the field of faith and life, I am pleased with the present draft state budget for 2016. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its work on the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1093	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1096	‘Church buildings are among the most important public buildings in Norwegian communities. They express the religious and popular life of the nation throughout history and are still strong symbols of identity and belonging to the community.’ This writes the government of Prop. 1, and I agree with that description. The Labour Party believes that church buildings are an important and central part of the Norwegian cultural heritage, and we are all well aware of the major challenges we face in church maintenance. I am aware of the budgetary agreement and the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where the interest compensation arrangement for church buildings came in again. That's good. But I assume that the Council of State and the government provided the budget they thought was the best for the country, and in this case also for the Church and the church buildings. It is known that most of the applications for this come in the second half of the year, or in the autumn. My question is: if the Council of State and the Government are committed to preserving our church buildings, why was it proposed to remove the entire investment framework for this in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1107	It is quite right, as the representative says, that more investigations, including: The state study by KA — The Employer’s Organization for Church Businesses confirms a large maintenance run on church buildings worth several billion kroner. The content of these reports is well known and used by departments, church owners and municipalities. It is the municipalities that have the financial responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the churches, and I do not perceive that there is any major disagreement about it. The interest compensation scheme for the refurbishment of church buildings has a framework of 500 million in 2015. kr, and up to now this year have about 65 pst. the investment framework has been used. The Committee set a new framework of 750 million in 2016. kr. The system is designed to stimulate municipalities to take increased responsibilities and increased efforts towards church buildings, and I expect it to be well exploited. In other words, I am pleased that the money has come in after the budget agreement here in Stortinget. As far as government priorities are concerned, when you have a budget, such as the Ministry of Culture's budget, there are always difficult priorities and balances that need to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1116	We are all happy that the money is back in. That's good. But I have another question. After the government had completed its budgetary work, a working time agreement was concluded for the benefits to apply from 1 January 2016. In summary, the hours worked by the priests have been previously measured in days, but now it is also to be measured in hours – to be precise: 35,5 hours per week. There is a lot of technical in this, and I will not go into all of this, but the priests believe – in short – that they have worked more than 35.5 hours. They believe that the average working time has been 42 hours a week, and that there has been a lot of free work. The conclusion must then be: If you want to get the same number of performance hours in 2016 as in 2015, you have to take some action. What will the Council of State do to maintain the performance of the service to the same extent in 2016 as in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1124	I am not going to go into the technical aspects of this matter, but simply saying that the claim that the working time of the priests is being reduced with the new working time contract may be a little unpresisory, since the priests have not had a normal working time before. It is not possible for the ministry to conclude whether the clergy will work more or less than before as a result of the new agreement, and the agreement will in any case have no consequences for the access of church members to the services of the past. However, certain tasks performed by the clergy on their own initiative today may be less likely to be carried out in the future. Then I have noticed that the majority of the Committee asks that, in the context of the revised budget 2016, an assessment of the capacity consequences of the agreement be given, and of course the ministry will come back to that. The basis for assessing the issue will also be better at the time it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1131	We are probably several people who have noticed that the Minister of Culture is not present, and there were perhaps more than I thought: «Kor was it to the lady?» But we now realize that it has a natural explanation, and when I think of what we have got together in the church budget in the last few years, I can add that «you can remember how fine and fine – quite tea a disappeared». I want to follow up on the question from the previous replicator, and that concerns the working time contract for the priests. We don't know how this exactly is going to affect the overall performance. As has been pointed out, the pastors may have worked a lot in addition to what has been normal working hours so far. My question is: does the Council of State think that it is reasonable that we should have a pastoral service where we pay the priests wages for what they actually do, or are we going to have a system in which we suggest that part of this is carried out on a voluntary basis by the priests?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1138	It may well become more ‘rai rai’ for former Minister of Culture Widvey now that she is no longer going to be Minister of Culture. But I am absolutely sure that the newly appointed Minister of Culture will also be concerned about these things. With regard to the question from the representative Tyvand, I would like to refer to my previous answer – that the department and I believe it is uncertain now whether this will lead to more or less work for the priests. Then, of course, I have noticed that the majority of people have asked the government to come back to an assessment of the capacity consequences of the agreement, and of course I will. At that time, there will be a better basis for assessing the impact of the agreement than it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1145	Since we've got a new minister of the church in the course of the night, I'm not going to ask any questions about the church budget – because I expect we'll have plenty of opportunity for that later. But I want to grasp something the Council of State said instead. He said – in a reply from the Left on the competence requirement for teachers – that municipalities had to avail themselves of the exemption. It was very interesting, I think, because that means that we have now passed a law with retroactive force, and both the Left and the Government seas see that this presents challenges. And if that's how we first pass a law, and then we say, "But you really ought to make sure that there is an application for exemption from this law?", what in the world is the point that we have introduced this law, with retroactive force?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1152	The President will point out that the reply must be to the previous post, so that the Council of State may choose even if he will reply to it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1155	I think I'm going to use the opportunity to answer the question, even though it's quite right that it's supposed to be church stuff in the first place, but it's nice to have a little chance to talk about the knowledge policy as well. This derogation scheme is not new – the derogation scheme already had the old competence requirements. The difference between the enhanced skills requirements – or new skills requirements – and the old ones is simply that we are now saying that it should apply to everyone in school. In order to achieve this, we rely on the use of the dispensation option by the municipalities. It is, in my understanding, a relatively wide dispensation access. This means, for example: a school that sees that a math teacher who does not have the necessary math credits but who cannot be absent for two to three years has to use the dispensation until he/she receives further education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1162	I think the Council of State answers better as Minister of Church than as Minister of Education, and it's not necessarily because church answers are so good. But we get to admit that the minister of the Church is not here, as she is newly appointed. The most important thing is that she can say ‘a thronder æ’ – and that’s positive. My question to the Minister of the Church is something he said in his speech – namely that the church should become a legal entity of its own. Now this process has not been completed, and the church settlement – at the time it was created – contained no provision as to whether the church should be fully released. That discussion must be taken carefully in the landfill. So I really just assume – let's say for the record – that the government does not push the conclusions of this, and that one is seeking the widest possible – preferably unanimously, as the church agreement was the last time – solution to this, where all the elements of the church policy of the future are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1169	I have, for understandable reasons, kept myself quite specific to the script in the post, and what I said means that the Norwegian Church can be separated from the state and established as an independent legal entity. At the same time, I stressed that the government would make a proposal, but of course also build on the church settlement. I think it is a very important principle when we are discussing something as important as the future of the Norwegian people's Church, that we are based on the good political craftsmanship that has been done by big politicians before – that we are trying to get as broad a deal as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1177	The Minister is not only Minister of the Church, but also for all the different beliefs and attitudes of life that we have in society today. So it's important not to simplify it too much. It is a debate that has taken place that is relevant to both the Council of State responsible for religion and threats in this society, and the Minister of Education. It is about bearing religiously motivated symbols, closer to certain hijabs, in the school. There came Hadia Tajik, representative of the Workers' Party, and had a play where she thought one should ban it because it was a sexualization of women. I have not registered that the government has expressed its opinion on this matter, and I am simply curious to hear what the Minister has in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1182	What is stated in the government statement is that we want to allow institutions – which is otherwise permitted today – to say that they do not want face-to-face clothing, i.e. the type of nicab. That means I can be very sensible to do because you want to see each other's faces. Now, the representative Tajik was a little bit more nuanced as to whether she wanted a ban or something else, but there's nothing in the government statement that tells us to impose a ban on hijab in any part of the education system. So I can add that I think it's an interesting discussion the representative Tajik has brought up. I believe that there must be very serious reasons before regulating – and that is clear against both religious freedom and parental rights. At the same time, there is a discussion that the representative Tajik raised – whether it should be more problematic – but there is therefore no initiative from this government on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1187	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1193	Good trade union workers live in the country, and we need more skilled workers. With the developments we are currently seeing, we may be at risk of the shortage of 90,000 to 190 000 skilled workers in 2035. In order to prevent this from happening, several professionals have to be selected. In the working party's alternative budget, we strengthen the vocational training programme so that we can provide good and relevant training. We provide up-to-date equipment, and we invest in the vocational teacher, by providing both more professionals and better skills, and we increase the apprenticeship rate by NOK 12 500 more than the government. But the most important thing to get more young people to choose a profession is about more than both apprenticeship and equipment. It's about gender balance in the disciplines, it's about study competence, and it's about an already in the basic sphere that makes it possible to learn more about practical subjects. In the government's equality message, we can read that the aim is to ensure that students' competences and interests determine the choice of further training, not gender. I'm completely united in it, but this doesn't happen by itself. The government has also said in the platform that they should work for a less gender-based labour market. I have not yet seen a single measure. I want to give the government some good tips, which I hope they listen to. First, better professional advice in the youth sphere – it is an obligation for young people to choose a profession, to know the possibilities that exist. When they have chosen untraditionally, we have to ensure network construction, for one comes in minority positions there, and then it is important that both the girls and the boys who have chosen them have a network with others who have chosen untraditionally. We must have an equal opportunities officer in the county. There are some states that are very good at refurbishment, for example. More and Romesdal, Süd-Trøndelag, Oslo and Telemark, but it's not a task they have to do, one depends on the fires, and it's too random if we think we're going to get more people to choose a profession. A completed degree letter should provide study competence, and one must have the option to choose and exchange, for one is very young when a search on a continuing course for the first time — perhaps 15–16 years old. It's too early to choose, and so I think a lot better study specialization, because then one can postpone the serious choice for at least three years. I think that if one knew that the letter would give study competence, the choice would be easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1212	Bjørn Eidsvåg has said: «Religion shall build people and strengthen our humanity, make us more empathetic and beautiful around us. If it doesn't, it's not worth anything." I think that's very well said. Society shall facilitate the free and healthy exercise of religious and life views, as is also done in this budget. The Progress Party believes that the principle of equal treatment of religious communities is important in a pluralist democracy. Freedom of belief and life is an inviolable human right and a fundamental democratic value, but at the same time we will stress that both historically and culturally the Norwegian Church stands in a special position in Norway. For a thousand years, Christian faith and tradition have contributed to the expression of Norwegian culture and social life, and belief, religion and outlook on life play an important role in Norwegian society, both for the community and for individuals. We are therefore pleased that the government is implementing a policy in line with the church settlement. There is an ongoing renewal of Norwegian church policy. Through the changes in the Constitution in 2012, it was established that the Norwegian Church will be Norway’s People’s Church. The role of the Church as a People's Church gives the Church a number of obligations that the other religious communities are not imposed, such as being nationwide, and offering religious training. In the process of administrative reform, there is a clear distinction between church and state. The reform will be implemented in 2017 as planned. I record what the Workers' Party pointed out on that matter. The Progress Party is in favour of the administrative reform, as we have been in favour of the changes that have been made in the Church, and we are pleased that the 16 million. The additional NOK that was granted last year is continued this year. In addition, the budgetary agreement has resulted in an additional 6 million. So we have a total increase of 22 million. NOK to the conversion work in the Church. As a result, the grant to other religious communities is also increased. The Progress Party will underline the importance of the management of church buildings with respect and in accordance with their cultural historical significance. We are therefore pleased with what has been done in the Stavkirke programme under the Ministry of Climate and Environment. All stave churches shall be equipped by the end of the year with securing systems which reduce the risk of the buildings being damaged or destroyed by fire. The Progress Party is also very pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left strengthens the interest compensation system for church buildings. The need for the maintenance of church buildings is great, and it is important that we enable municipalities to maintain such an important part of local and national identity as church buildings are.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1232	In June 2015, the Storting adopted a new private school law, whereby the government was able to extend the recognition basis for private secondary schools to include training in vocational education programmes and so-called profile schools. The centre party went against this change and believes that an extended recognition basis could have adverse consequences for the decentralised supply structure that we want in continuing training. In Hordaland, this cottage has had a very uplifting school structure debate in further education. The large number of private schools in Bergen is now forcing cuts in public services. In Hordaland already leaves at 22 pst. by students in preparatory studies at a private school, against 12 pst. national. In the Bergen center, the number is 50 pst. It's because we've had a Right Party government of the county of Hordaland for many years, which has prioritised private schooling. It says that private schools should not be approved if it weakens the public school supply. However, if an authorisation has been granted, it cannot be withdrawn without breaching the law and regulations. So it is impossible to remove private schools that have first been approved. Then it's a great paradox that while all public secondary schools and lines have to be evaluated by rolling the school plan, private schools have protection forever. So if there's a searchable student number or the like that requires adjustment of the school supply, it's the public schools or the lines that need to be laid down. The Education Directorate stated in the Class Struggle on 7 December that they cannot guarantee that new private schools will not be approved in Hordaland, and that despite the fact that the private school offer for elephants in Bergen is now so large that one out of four pupils in the future are required to choose private schools in order for everyone to have a student seat. This is the dark back of the school privatisation, and it goes beyond the public supply. I think the situation is unsustainable. The law must be amended so that private schools are no longer protected forever, but must be able to be part of school-planning in line with public schools. Finally, I have a call for the Workers' Party and the Left in particular to set aside political prestige today. Because that's what this is all about. I would like to ask that they support the proposal of the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party in the position that teachers with completed education can retain full teaching competence from before 2014. Enhanced basic competence requirements are correct, but it is wrong to invalidate public teacher training from before 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1247	Today, a budget with a total budget of 68 billion is to be adopted. kr. In that budget, there's no room for 3.3 million. kr to maintain the Sameskole voor Mid-Norway in Hattfjelldal. Today there was a marking outside here from some of those who are being affected. In addition, we see that there is a lot of commitment on Facebook, with over 2,000 supporting the action. For many of those who were gathered outside today, it was not just – as for me – to stick out of the Storting and join in a selection. They have actually had a travel trip – return trip of over 200 miles, and of course costs then. But this shows the commitment and despair of the government's proposal. They should have been able to spend the time on something else in these Christmas seasons than traveling these 200 miles. But I notice that we have a government that is not aware of what they are doing to a minority, who represent Southern Sami. It is simply petty by the government and the supporting parties on the Stortinget. We have a state budget of 1245 billion. kr, and then the government – and I would like to say with the Advance Party at the head – cuts out an offer for a score of 3.3 million. kr, a cut that would threaten an entire language. I am pleased that I belong to a party that knows and understands the challenges we have both in the city and in the country, and that we have prioritised this important school offer in our alternative budget for 2016. We are now losing an institution in central Norway with a high level of competence, which is caring for the language and culture of a threatened minority group. Through a series of years, the same school has built up enough knowledge of language and culture to give back the culture once torn from them to Sami children and young people. This affects not only those students who receive valuable language education from school, but the entire Southern Sami environment, both in Norway and Sweden. The argument for dropping out of school is that there are no students there. That's not the case. If you had taken the time to check this out before you went to the cut list, you would have known. The importance of creating a positive and inclusive learning environment is therefore essential for not only culture, but also language to exist, which I think the government is blindly ignoring to save 3.3 million. kr. I also find it disappointing that within a budget of 68 billion. kr has not been able to re-prioritize 3.3 million. kr. I notice that today's Christian People's Party is on the government's proposal, and then, sadly, it's the majority for closure. But it's never too late to turn around. If you are not snooping today, the next option is revised in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1262	In June this year, a majority at Stortinget decided that if you were a general teacher from before 2014, your basic competence would no longer give full teaching competence. I do not know about any other professional groups that have been awarded their basic education as adopted by the majority in June. Because it is not the case that a general practitioner is receiving basic education if he or she is being offered continuing training or if the medical study is changing. In 2012, the red-green government introduced requirements for 30 or 60 study credits respectively to teach in the childhood and early childhood stages respectively in Norwegian, math, English and Sami. The law was then adopted in accordance with the Basic Law, § 97, which states: ‘No law must be applied retroactively.’ This principle elected the majority to disregard in June of this year when they decided to separate the general teacher, i.e. recognize the basic training in the belief that the more points of study the better they learn. So no matter how many years you have experience, the study score is the most important. Not until the Evening Post took up the actual effects of this decision, most people realized what the decision would mean. We could read about the general teacher with many years of experience who was going to move, but who had problems getting a regular job because she was no longer considered qualified. We have read the article about the super teacher Håvard Tjora, who is no longer qualified, because he also lacks some study points. Rather, teachers who have participated in the writing of textbooks and who are considered to be the most competent and experienced teachers are more qualified as general teachers, because the majority without modesty have put ‘not approved’ in their foreheads. From Trondheim, we have heard of the teacher who, as a raptor, was paid less because he was considered to be unqualified in some of the subjects in which she taught. I think it's a shame. I think the government and the majority in this Chamber have underestimated the consequences of this decision. And in retrospect, one has to find smooth solutions. You have to be flexible in order for teachers to choose the cost of continuing education in order to be allowed to return to school. The examples I have referred to clearly show that teachers are already experiencing that their ability to pursue the profession has been restricted. What is the second profession to be treated in this way? Let me stress: none of us believe that competence is not important. We see the need for new teachers to have more in-depth knowledge of teaching, but we think it is outright unwise to give the law retroactive force. I would particularly encourage the Labour Party and the Left to vote in favour of the proposal by the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1277	It's an old Chinese saying, if you fill your head and not your pockets, you can never be robbed. This is one of the reasons why SV spends much more of society’s common resources on education than the majority and government chooses. It's because we know that if we give each person an even safer basis to stand on in terms of competence and knowledge and believe that you can do something, it'll be a good investment both for the individual and for society. I'm just like the last speaker very worried that we're going in a direction where you think it's just what can be counted or measured, which is important in school as well. I want to remind you that we have a purpose paragraph that is wide and that is important. Among other things, it says that students and apprentices should learn to think critically and act ethically and environmentally consciously. It's incredibly important in the future we're going into now. And they're going to have co-responsibility and the right to participation. This is incredibly important knowledge and competence for students and future citizens. That's why SV is saying that we should have more teachers, so that each student can be seen, and that someone has time to talk to them by day. We want school meals, because without food and drink the hero will not do – we are soon the only country that does not have this – and physical activity, and we also want to try homework at school, from homework to school homework. Because those who struggle most with the school and have parents who sail had no particularly good relationship with the school and homework, get little help. It's hard to break such circles. I have also put forward a proposal to the committee that all schools in Norway should become dyslexic and dyscal. I really hope that it's possible to get a majority for that. I understand that there is some sort of competition in this committee to quote trombone rock, and I would think that if you don't vote for this proposal, someone might think of ‘colding it before a betrayal’. Because that's the whole basis for children to understand and to acquire knowledge further in life. I'm one of those people who have this problem, so I know what it's like to feel completely stupid and be told that you're stupid, because you write wrong and also don't always read correctly. But it is possible to get help with this in Norwegian school. Some schools are very good, but too many are bad, too many teachers lack methods and knowledge of how to handle this. It needs to be systematized so that each student gets the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1290	One of the most incomprehensible cuts the government will get a majority for here today, is the closure of the Same School for Middle Norway. The same school for Middle Norway, Hattfjelldal, has adapted to the modern world. Sami children are not allowed to leave home at the age of six in order to live at the boarding school throughout childhood. A good combination of language collections in the Southern Sami community in Hattfjelldal and distance learning over the Internet, so that students can live at home, has given proud students. The punishment from the government is closure, and they argue that the school does not have students because they do not go there all year long. When the government chooses to propose the closure of the Middle Norway School as a purely budgetary matter, they have made a conscious choice. But they have not assessed how those students associated with the Same School today are to be granted their sun-enlightened rights to education in their own native language. They have obviously taken the view that others should be able to make an offer that is equally high quality, and that they should be able to do so free of charge, because there is nothing else in the budget. Of course that won't be possible. The Mid-Norway Joint School today offers distance education which is quality far above other suppliers. The language collections provide students with training in Southern Sami estuaries and other Southern Sami cultures, which others cannot offer without further delay. It is not possible for other schools to take over the tasks of Sameskolan for Middle Norway without providing them with resources. So-called $3 million win. Therefore, the kr that the government intends to pick up when the school is closed is not real. It is likely that it will cost a lot more to create this offer elsewhere. I wonder why the government has not been in contact with the municipality. Then they found out that this school actually has students. Why have they not been in contact with the continent and found out that this is an important part of the Southern Sami environment in Northern Europe? It must be allowed to ask why Erna signed the consultation agreement with Sametinget if she had not intended to talk to them. The fact that the Advance Party proposes this is not surprising, perhaps not that the Right Party is involved. But I must say I'm surprised when the Christian People's Party and the Left vote for it. The central party is concerned with agreements with the United Nations and the United Nations. We are working to strengthen Sami language and culture. That's why we've put funds into our alternative budget for Sameskolan for Middle Norway. That's why we have added extra funds to the Sameting. And that's why we've put in starting materials for Samien Sitje, Southern Sami Museum and Cultural Center in Snåsa.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1305	Today, the University of Stavanger, the University of Agder and Nord University do not have the same funding model as the other universities in Norway. In this, there is a systematic bias, where education and research are not allowed to be strong growth factors in the respective regions. It is therefore important that the financial framework conditions for institutions change and become more forward-looking when governments and institutions are now working to change the higher education sector. It is therefore a pity that the government chooses to treat the financing of higher education as a chapter in this case. In many counties, the vocational orientation of the students is still being overestimated. I consider that to be positive, as there is a great need for experts in this country. Figures show that the vast majority of those with vocational/friend letters are working properly. In order to succeed in the professional training process, we are highly dependent on good access to apprenticeships. Every year we're left with young people and adults who don't get a place to learn as they want. It is therefore positive that the government increased the apprenticeship grant in the revised national budget by NOK 2 500 per apprenticeship contract, and that the proposal for the State budget and the negotiated state budget with the Left and Christian People's Party are adding up to a further increase. Unfortunately, this is underfunded. As an example, I can mention that the municipality of Nordland currently has approx. 2 700 ongoing apprenticeships, which means that increased apprenticeship grants will give the county an extra cost of about 11.5 million. Compared to the county municipality has received compensation. So there's an extra cost here that has to be covered by other sectors. And Nordland is not alone. Counties with a large number of apprenticeships come out worse than counties with a lower number of apprenticeships. The initiative is good, but the majority thus also have underfunded actions, not just the opposition. A more systematic interaction between school and working life could improve the quality of secondary education and, to a greater extent, ensure that the labour market is provided with the necessary skills. As a result, together with several Nordic countries, a project has been launched to strengthen this interaction. The project cooperates with both the NHO, the ICT Centres in education and other county municipalities. The Education Directorate has provided funding for this project in 2015. As a result of this cooperation, ICT centres in education have developed a digital tool under education.no, which demonstrates the link between occupation, education, labour market and apprenticeships in a more concrete and easily understood way. The project will simplify the visibility of labour market opportunities at a local level. Sign-on tools and tools for working life are also provided for this purpose by establishing cooperation agreements between higher education and the county council as an educational institution. The Council of State is cordially welcome to receive more information on this, as it could strengthen cooperation between the labour force and the county council as a training institution and improve results in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1316	On 6 June 2014, the Ministry of Knowledge issued an opinion entitled: ‘In order to strengthen the coordination of research policy, the Government has concluded that it will deal with research policy in ordinary government conferences. In this way, all government councils will participate in the discussions, under the direction of the Prime Minister.’ Mr. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said this. This, I think, was a strange admission to the budgets for 2015 and 2016, and it is simply because the investment that came into research came into business and technology, and so it is the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Oil and Energy that receives the increased appropriations, as well as health businesses. In all other departments, it's zero growth or a real decline. That's the way it is this year, and that's the way it was last year. I am amazed that a government that talks about research in every party speech is unable to invest in research in all disciplines, because the various departments are responsible for ensuring a good knowledge base in their sectors. It is important that each department takes this sector responsibility seriously, including in the field of research. Research should follow the large flows of money just to ensure that we use resources in a good way, and then it is worrying that no more money is allocated, for example. the transport sector or the justice sector than is actually done. We spend a lot of money on this budget, and we spend a lot of money on these areas, as I said. Do we know that reorganizing the police the way we do now leads to a better police force? What is the best asphalt for Norwegian conditions? What works best when integrating immigrants? A lot of questions can be asked in a lot of cases that are dealt with in the different budget lines, but research is needed to know if we are actually spending the money correctly. I would like the Prime Minister, who is responsible for research in the departments, to be able, according to this press release, to bring with him more ministers than the Minister of Knowledge, who are in charge of research, and the other ministers who have received something, in particular the Minister of Industry, who are also doing what she should, but the others are not doing what they should. That means that we get worse solutions, and all the other appropriations for the state budget are not used well enough probably, and I should like this government to do far more than it actually does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1332	I would like to add a few words to the perspective of faith and life in the budget. The Norwegian Church has a strong position in our society, and the government is committed to pursuing a policy to ensure that the Norwegian Church can fulfil its role and task as a church in the future, when the distinction between state and church is made clear. The bill on a clear distinction has been at the hearing and was also presented to the Church meeting in 2015, and is now being prepared for the further process. It is a demanding process of conversion when such a large, important and traditional institution is to be changed. In the Right we are concerned that through this process we should also ensure a nationwide and locally anchored church in the future. But while the Norwegian Church is in transition, we also see that our society has changed towards a much greater diversity of beliefs and beliefs. In 1969, when the law of trudom and ymist Anna was passed, there were 90 religious communities outside the Norwegian Church. In all, these were nonchurch Christian congregations. In 2014, it was approx. 700 non-Norwegian religious and life-seeking communities, which represent a wide range of religions and views of life. Freedom of belief and life is a fundamental value and right in a democratic society, and it is the responsibility of the State to strengthen and protect that freedom. I am pleased that the government and the cooperation parties in this budget are both giving priority to faith training and conversion funds to the Church. Similarly, measures to strengthen the faith and life-seeing dialogue are important in a multicultural society. It's not just the church at home that's undergoing conversion. This year I have visited several of our mariner churches outside, and new tasks and new groups of users challenge their resources and capabilities every day. The government and the cooperation parties have therefore increased the allocation to the Sjömann Church this year – first in the revised national budget and then by another 2 million. kr in the budget agreement for the autumn. The budget agreement continues, as we have heard before, the interest compensation scheme for church buildings with an investment framework of 750 million. kr, and it is an important tool for the maintenance of church buildings. Later this week, the Stortinget will be considering a proposal for a representative, where I am pleased that it is a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment asking for a reinforced strategy to be drawn up for the preservation of the ancient stone churches of the Middle Ages, the protected post-Reformer churches and especially important churches from after the 1650s and to ensure a proper level of maintenance. There is a great need for this, and a strengthened strategy in this area will be beloved now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1351	Now “become there life”. In these days, there is a lot of talk about study credits and skills requirements, including in the debate here, quite rightly. The Labour Party is for the purpose of educating teachers in the subjects in which they teach, but we believe that the government has failed to present a realistic plan for how to implement this. That is why we have also tabled a Document 8 proposal proposing that the matter be re-examined by the Storting, precisely because we need to get all the cards on the table. If the government doesn't come up with better answers than it's done now, we'll consider proposing to draw the whole law change. The debate has been held here today. We are looking forward to the Storting being given the opportunity to discuss this matter properly, properly and thoroughly in the new year. For competence, there is definitely more than a study score, but study score is also competence. And if you're going to be a good teacher, you have to have a number of personal qualities as well as a good professional starting point. The professional starting point is first in basic training. The red-green government changed teacher training, so that it was arranged for more immersion in the subject and stage. Now is the time to take new steps to strengthen teacher training, and the Workers' Party supports the ambition to introduce teacher training at master level. We believe that an additional year can contribute to safer, more reflective and more professionally robust teachers, as long as it is done in the right way. The year must have a witty device, there must be something more than a master's task produced from a reading room. But there's one thing that's starting to worry about us, and that's that we're starting to get a little bit of a little bit of a bad time. We have to make sure that the educational institutions are ready to tackle the formidable task of actually reforming teacher training. In February 2015, NOKUT wrote to the Ministry that the full introduction of a five-year teacher training programme from 2017 is problematic and that this will require the introduction of at least 230 new posts at the institutions. Several institutions need more time to strengthen their professional environments and a stepping-up plan is required. Most of this must naturally happen in 2016, and we should therefore wish that this was somewhat more clearly and more concretely formulated in the budget on these challenges. Teachers starting at a five-year teacher training course in 2017 shall ensure that students starting in the first class in 2050 have the right skills to continue in Norway. It's a formidable task. Then we have to prepare a well thought out and good teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1363	The Government has made quite good its budget heading, «work, activity and conversion». Norway is in a tough transition period, and it is obvious that school, knowledge and research are going to be very central to strengthening our competitiveness and that during government spending. I myself was on the knowledge committee in my first period at Stortinget, and I am pleased that the field is well maintained by the County Council. Norway can never be the cheapest, but we can be the best, and that must be the goal of the transition we're in. We will replace a driving force for the Norwegian economy – the oil, which created many high-income jobs. That's what's the challenge. It's not just finding jobs, but it's finding jobs that have so much value creation in them that you can maintain the level of well-being we have. Then knowledge becomes very central again, and that's a pretty fundamental challenge we have. Then I would like to point out that this government has invested enormously in nutrient research. We've increased nutrition research by 2.2 billion. kr since the government joined in 2013, and it is an area that was chronically underfunded under the red-green. Now that I also know that you cut in FORNY2020, that's what the Minister of Knowledge said: not just do research, you have to have something left for research. One thing is basic research that should be able to play a little bit free, but it's important for society that we also get value creation for the research we do. Then FORNY2020 is absolutely central, so it cuts the opposition in. I think that's a pretty incomprehensible post to cut into, as the challenges we're facing are. So we're putting a lot of money on BIA, we're putting money on FORNY2020, we're putting money on enabling technologies. We're betting on student entrepreneurship and things around it. We strengthen the TaxFUNN, and in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, there was further investment in industrial research that will make the Norwegian economy better equipped to meet the challenges that are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1374	Here are choices of the professional part 2, since I didn't get everything in my previous post when I talked about gender balance in the professional field and measures to get more elephants, both boys and girls, to choose both the professional and gender tradition. I also thought that a completed letter should give study competence. This is the way to start a profession, one must also know that an apprenticeship is available. The best thing is if you get an apprenticeship in a good, relevant company, but if you don't get it, I think the schools have to offer that you can get a letter at school, and it goes fine in a lot of subjects. In addition, it must be easier to choose between, so that when one is 15-16 years and should choose, one should not be afraid of taking a decision, limiting one in the future. I know that many elephants who until now – but now it is beginning to change – have gone three years in general or in specialisation and then they want to take a professional course, and then they are told that one has exercised his right. It seems to me to be completely unnecessary, because we need people with a professional background, and then I think that with the possibility of exchange models, you can go from study specialisation to professional, and then you can get a compressed professional base, so that you don't start all over again, because you like to have the skills in the community, and you have the ability to acquire the skills you need, for example. to go into learning. What is very positive – and I want to boast a little about the government – is that the Education Directorate is actually looking at what I have received feedback about are very good models, and I am very happy to see the result. So I think that when we think that the elephants don't want to start professionally, we should have brought them here, so that they would have seen the uplift that one has run in the corner office here, and shown them all the amazing possibilities that are there if one takes a different profession. In summary, however, if one is to have more than one professional choice, it is necessary to have measures for a better gender balance in the professional field, a degree qualification must be obtained when a professional qualification is available, and one must already have better basic skills and opportunities to learn practical subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1390	The Norwegian Church is in the midst of a comprehensive process of conversion, and I am pleased that we have agreed this year to grant conversion funds to the Church. It is necessary for the Church to be able to stand on its own feet and to assume much of the responsibilities of the State today. But the follow-up to the church conciliation is going to raise many important questions, not least regarding the funding of the Church and other religious and life-view societies in the light of the principle of equal treatment. Last week, the Stortingeet, by a majority composed of the Government Parties and the Left, adopted a legislative amendment which concerns this very principle. That matter came to Stortinget as an urgent matter of urgency, because the government had taken the legislative amendment as the basis for its draft budget without mentioning it in the budget proposal. I think it's an unfortunate procedure, but I look forward to a more comprehensive case of the funding system, which a unanimous magnification has asked the government to come back with. I also want to bring up another case, and that's the pastor's service. A new working time agreement was negotiated in September for the priests, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. That agreement was concluded after the government's draft budget had been drawn up and therefore the consequences and the possible need for more performance resulting from the agreement in the budget have not been taken into account. But then I want to bring forward a matter that I am very pleased that the four cooperation parties have agreed on in the budget agreement. It is that the Seaman's Church receives an increased subsidy in the budget also in 2016. Seamen's Church means a lot to many Northmen who live abroad, both as a church community, as a cultural centre and as a social meeting place, and I'm glad that the majority of them support this important work. Finally, in a matter that is not about the Church, but perhaps about spiritual food, it is also about the cultural schools. As far as the cultural schools are concerned, it may be right to say that right now the sun is shone behind a summit, because a new framework plan for the cultural schools has been developed, and they receive an additional 3 million. to support the implementation of the new framework plan in each cultural school around the whole of Norway. This work means a great deal to ensure that as many children and young people as possible have a good cultural school offer, which provides knowledge, knowledge, experiences and skills in the field of music and culture, and which will facilitate both a broad range for the many and for talent development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1403	It would have been thought that the DVD player had been put on the ‘repeat’ from the last year’s budget debate when you heard the opposition – and in particular the comments of the representative Giske. Also this year's inspiration is Terje Tysland's song: «No, it's not bad». This year too, the criticism is that it is the weakest knowledge budget in history. The only positive I can draw out of it is that it's a real uproar to the current year's budget. Well, at least that's something. The strange thing is, however, that it is only in Trond Giske's office on the second floor of the staging building that it is reached that conclusion. In the sector, reality is quite different. Gro Elisabeth Paulsen, leader of the Norwegian Lektorlag, says: ‘The aim is to upgrade the school, both buildings and contents. It is also very positive and forward-looking that so much is allocated to research. [[...]] Overall, this gives the impression of an offensive knowledge policy.’ Knut Aarbakke, leader of the Academics, says: "It is very good for the government to be aggressive about research. We are faced with demanding changes both in the private and public sectors, and research and development are crucial to our success.’ And then we're criticized for the use of oil money. Martin Henriksen is even afraid that we're going to spend the fund. Then it is worth remembering that next year's oil money consumption is 2.8 pst. The working party in its time created an action rule that set a maximum limit of 4 pst. So we're good inside. In 2009, however, the Workers' Party used over 4 pst. of the oil money. That's when you don't know if you're going to criticize us for doing too much too early, or too little too late. Our major efforts are in infrastructure, research and development and growth-promoting tax havens – in line with the rules of action. The strange thing is, however, that the criticism comes from a party budgeting with monopoly money, which budgets with tax revenue it is not possible to recover next year. And if someone should know that corporate tax is paid in arrears, it's former business ministers. The criticism comes from a party that says they want 3,000 student homes, but that only finances around 2,450. The criticism comes from a party that says they want 3,000 extra places to study in all categories, but the 91 million. they grant, provide only 1000 E and 2000 Category F places — far from all categories and far from 3000 welfare training places. The Labour Party and Trond Giske would like to claim that this is the weakest knowledge budget in history. But that's not right. What's right is that the alternative to the Workers' Party is history's least backward alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1424	The President agrees that there is a point in the debate in quoting trombone rock, but the President will also ask that not all titles of the trombone rock be quoted from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1427	Dear President, I can assure you that I have now run out of quotes from tronderrock – I'm not so familiar with that genre – so here it becomes thunderrock-free. I want to link some comments to the funding system, which is also discussed in the budget. I believe that this is not an optimal way to deal with such a big and important matter. I believe that this should be part of the structural message that we had earlier. When it didn't, it should have been a matter of its own, because I believe that such an important change does not receive the attention it deserves when it is dealt with in a major matter such as the budget. But although many of the measures proposed by the government are good grips and important steps, I don't think what is now being adopted is helping to bring about peace in the sector. For a long time there has been concern, and much as a result of the so-called new universities not having had the same funding as the established ones. The proposal for a funding system does not address this issue adequately, and there is certainly disagreement on how this should be addressed. But as it is now, I believe – and I think – that this conflict will continue. I also don't think it's going to be a less topical issue when HiOA and HVBT get university status and many of the smaller colleges are merged with established or new universities. It is correctly pointed out by the representative of the Central Party from Northern Ireland that there is a skew funding, but I think it is a little special when the Left and Christian People's Party together with the government parties actually do something about it. We're giving 50 scholarships to the three new universities this year. We did the same thing last year. I think that's good. It does not correct bias, but it helps to improve the funding of the new universities. Nevertheless, the Center Party chooses to make a critical remark to that very way of doing it. I have one minute left and want to say a few words about the school in Hattfjelldal, which has been up today. The left had the 3.3 million inside our alternative state budget, and we would want the operation to continue, at least until we had a little bit more clarity on how this could be taken over by others. Unfortunately, when you're negotiating, sometimes you win, and sometimes you lose. If an agreement has been concluded, an agreement has been concluded, and then we have to stand on it. I just wanted to say that in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1442	The base ball lasts for many years, and through these years, kids will learn a lot. They should mature with other young people and have knowledge and values in the interaction between teachers and others added and the young themselves. Clay school stays don't last many years; there's only a small part of the basic school run in time. But when we as an adult look back at all the years of school, the clay pottery tends to appear quickly in the memory. And if we have kids coming back from camp, we see that the kids come back with something they didn't have before they left. New friendships and new knowledge are valuable, but also that they have experienced new ways of being together and gaining knowledge. We in the Center Party thicken the clay ball is so important that we have suggested that all the elephants should have the right to a clay ball stay during the base ball. Unfortunately, many municipalities have chosen to give up the camp school for the students. Norwegian Leirskoleforening has obtained figures that show that fewer and fewer schools are sending students to camp and that municipalities are contributing to the financing of the suspension to a very different extent. When the municipalities no longer spend money on this, the result is between 15 and 20 pst. students will no longer be offered clay spherical shelters. Previous ear-marked additions to the to-do have been too long inserted into the frame. We know that many municipalities are struggling with the economy and must give priority. The center part of my clay ball is too important for it to be prioritised away. The center part sees the need for targeted funds for clay balls, and has therefore added 100 million. kr in our alternative state budget for just this. Many school classes are good at collecting money for camproom stays, and many parents take on financial responsibility. But this means that today's financing of clay balls is on the edge of the free principle. The central part of my clay schooling is and still is an important part of elementary school training. That means that the cost has to be taken by the public. In this way, it is best to ensure that young people who are also growing up in the future have a good memory and useful experience from clay scaffolding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1455	There is no need to go to the pulpit and read out single points from a political account, individual items that have been implemented in a government budget. All of us who were in the red-green government for eight years know that there's no problem. The difference is that our list was both longer and better. I hear the representative Sivert Bjørnstad from the Progress Party talk about fantasy budgets. Well, there is reason to listen when the representatives of the Progress Party talk about it, a party that has been operating completely, totally unrealistic budgeting over several years, among other things. In the same year, large reductions in sick leave expenditure were to be introduced — totally, totally unrealistic. In the case of oil money, only the proportion of the state budget financed by oil money has to be looked at, which has now become sky high. They have for the first time taken not only of current oil revenues but also of the returns. On every occasion, this government, together with the supporting parties, has been entitled to the honey pot, provided by the oil fund and in addition to the good use of the night hours in the negotiations to invent new charges, such as bag tax, air passenger charges and other charges that come straight out of the blue, literally. With regard to the criticism that Sivert Bjørnstad brought against budgeting in respect of tax revenue, our people in the Financial Committee have repeatedly rejected it. If the representative of Bjørnstad or others does not want to believe in me or other representatives of the Workers' Party, he can listen to Professor Guttorm Schjellederup, one of the country's leading experts on this very thing, who says it's completely possible to do it that way. We're not putting in an unrealistic budgeting of 3,000 places of study. We're adding 1,000 study places to category D, 1,900 to other categories, we're also adding to A, B, and C. If those figures are not correct, there is nothing less than alarming, because they are based on the answers we have received from the Ministry of Finance to questions about the costs in the different categories. Finally, I have to say that when they add up to a record high oil money usage next year, you should at least think that the money went primarily to the Right to the elections, namely a better school. They don't, and that's what our criticism is about. On the contrary, the government, as the representative Giske has shown, has cut the school budget more than it has collected for continuing education. In addition, the main prerequisite for a good school is the municipal economy. Let's add 4 billion. kr more, so that local elected representatives can ensure a better school. But at least there must be government parties: they have implemented a very good policy of empowerment among the peoples of the country. They're now among our leading cutting experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1474	After all, when the opposition complains against the bourgeois parties that there is too little offensive effort in the field of knowledge, one can slowly rejoice that the field of knowledge is now important in the opposition. But as politicians, one should be measured by what one delivers, and how one prioritises when one sits with power. When it turns out that the local economy is so difficult, it is worth noting that the real space for action is better in 2014–2016 than in the previous three years, from 2011 to 2013. In this way, there is a long way between historical facts and what red-green parties mean here today. It is well hoped that most people will forget the rest cut in higher education up to the budget for 2016, which has passed over 1 pst. to R & D, or to forget homeless students who had to return home, up to today's more than double the number of student homes, or, for that matter, the strong increase in student support. What about the many thousands of students who lack apprenticeship, but where today's majority for the fifth time increases the apprenticeship rate? And let's not forget the increase of 80 pst. unskilled teachers who taught in school during the eight red-green years, up to nearly three times as many thousands of teachers who are now undergoing continuing training. That's how I could still have. There is little doubt that the knowledge budget is the budget winner here today, thus strengthening the knowledge society and the ability of Norway to adapt. It is good that we have a government that, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, has a responsible economic policy that strengthens Norwegian competitiveness in order to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society, unlike the Workers' Party, which has chosen to budget nearly 5 billion air money. On top of that, they've already increased their taxes by $9 billion. kr, at a time when Norwegian business needs better conditions in the global economy. What's even more strange is how, with so many extra tax and air billions in the budget, there's no room for prioritizing your own promises, which you'd never even be near to delivering when you were in position. There is a saving on apprentices with increased grants in the first autumn, with the risk that more enterprises will expect to take in apprentices. It is saved in the vocational schools, where the proposed places of study are financed by 25 pst. lower than the actual cost and thus not real. It's saved in student homes by adding only one third of what they actually cost, and it's cut in study places by spending money on everything else than the ones we need the most. So it's not delivered in position or in opposition. So that's a certain degree of consistency for once. Today's majority is not just talking about knowledge, we're prioritizing actual knowledge. We recognise that if we are to ensure lasting well-being, we need to create more and no more taxes. Today, therefore, we are dealing with an offensive knowledge budget, which promises the knowledge society, which contributes to more people in work, which ensures increased activity, and which demands the necessary transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1491	I am very pleased with the President's tightening up of Tysland texts. There's a lot there that's not suitable in the staging room. Although titles such as ‘On the March’ or ‘Tullingan thrives’ could certainly be appropriate on the part of the voters when they listen to debates here, we should raise ourselves to a different level and therefore quote texts such as: ‘Back our tea once’, which can take care of very much of what the government does. In the case of the Djupedal Committee, in the case of teacher training, in the case of quality in higher education, there are investigations and postponements — and it comes ‘to spring once’. It's very strange to hear the government parties criticise that when we add to the study places, when we bet in the college, when we increase the number of student homes, we don't increase it enough in addition to the government's proposal. It's really a special argument. It must be more timely to ask: why not do more when you are in government? That's right – I think it was Bjørnstad who said that – that this is not the weakest budget in history. The weakest budget in history was probably one of the first budgets created in the 1800s. This is considerably stronger than that. It is stronger than the budgets under Stoltenberg, as Stoltenberg's budgets were stronger than Bondeviks, as Bondeviks were stronger than Brundtlands, as Brundtlands were stronger than Willoch's, because we are becoming ever richer and more prosperous. But when you set the world record for increasing oil money usage, you should expect that you also chose to put knowledge, competence and conversion at the top. And that's where the government goes wild. There are many billions of dollars spent on tax cuts and very little specifically on basic education, and this is where our criticism is strongest, combined with a municipal economy that makes school budgets tighter in many places. Then I also react to the representative Asheim, I think it was, who said that there is a confrontation that one would like to take in terms of the qualifications at school. I wonder if the Minister of Knowledge shares the view that such confrontations with the teachers are desirable. I think confrontation is a bad strategy for building school. I believe cooperation and trust and giving teachers space and time and resources to do the job of following up each individual student is a much better strategy. Now we had a teacher conflict last year that put deep tracks behind us, very badly handled by the KS leader. Now, if we're going to have a corresponding conflict around the skills requirements, I think that's very unfortunate. To end with a Tysland song: if we sit here a lot longer, we're going to the group party, and then we're going to have to sit still with "a beer, dear girls," and I hope we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1503	The next speaker is the representative of Henrik Asheim. Then it's up to the representative how long we're going to debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1506	The signal has been received. It's a little funny to listen to the Workers' Party in this debate, because the representative Thinning Bjørnø has called for further progress in e.g. The master’s training system for teachers – a system that we still do not know if the Workers’ Party is in favour or against. It is very important that we should be quick to do things that the Workers' Party is unable to decide. When it comes to skills requirements, as I said today, I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has said in the replies from this speaker that they are in favour of the same requirements that we are making. To answer the representative Giske, who deliberately misunderstands what I'm saying, I'm not saying that there's a confrontation we're going to bring with the teachers. If there's something that characterizes this government's and the majority's policy, it's just that we follow up the teachers, raise the status of the teachers, and in negotiations and conversations with the teachers find good arrangements that they can be involved in. The level of competence we are now introducing is a requirement that they have been promoting for eight years with a red-green government, but which they now get. The ones I'm saying I want to bring in a confrontation are those parties in this room that suddenly now don't think that the requirements that it's logical to apply to newly educated teachers aren't going to apply to the teachers who are already in school. It is such that one of the most important demands of the Federation of Education has always been, both up against the municipalities and up against us as national politicians, to get the professional stuff they are entitled to. The problem was that the previous government did not take enough of the bill, so the municipalities pushed it that they could not afford to give enough further training, ahead of them all the time. What have we actually done? Well, we have increased the share of the expenditure that the state is now taking. So it's possible to do that. Both by building up enough places and by taking a larger part of the bill, teachers will receive within 10 years the qualification they themselves have requested. The representative, Bjørnstad, was concerned that perhaps the Workers' Party is budgeting a little creatively. Several from the Workers' Party later thought it was a bit strange that the Progress Party said so. Well, we are facing a vote today with two budgets. One goes up, the other doesn't. One budget simply does not go up because what is said in words, in text, in its alternative budget, there is no money left. It's leading the voters behind the light, it's leading the students behind the light, it's leading an entire sector behind the light – if you say you're going to do one thing, but don't give enough money to do it. It is very serious, and therefore we should be pleased that the alternative budget for the Workers' Party is not adopted, but that the budgetary settlements of the four cooperation parties, which go up both in crowns and in words, are what are being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1521	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1529	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1537	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, on the proposal No. 9, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 10, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 11, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 12, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of the Swedish National College of Sjunkhatten in the municipality of Fauske.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1570	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is regularly asked, and at least once in each majority period, to submit to the Stortinget a thorough analysis of the basic component of the funding system for the university and higher education sectors, based on clear costors and strategic leadership.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1585	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review whether the rates of secondary education equipment scholarships meet the needs of the books and equipment of the individual educational programmes.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1602	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to change the qualifications requirements, so that teachers with completed education from before 2014 continue to have full teaching competence.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1619	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2, 4, 5 and 7 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a comprehensive assessment of the role and offer of online supplementary education, in the context of the revised national budget for 2016.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to carry out a review of State grants to private universities in the implementation of the revised funding system for universities and higher education institutions and in the follow-up to the report of the so-called Andreassen Group.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with a completed investment plan/coordination scheme for investments and major maintenance projects of buildings in the university and higher education sectors, as well as an analysis and plan of the sector’s future needs for equipment.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a case in which the consequences of the conversions in education support are made visible and whether the income limits for pupils and apprentices in order to receive basic scholarships and housing scholarships are assessed at the appropriate level.’ The voting boards showed that there were 60 votes against and 42 votes in favour of the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.38.54]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1648	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1653	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1658	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e1670	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 3, 6 and 8 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify the real equipment needs at schools in order to meet all the curriculum objectives and the relevance of vocational training with a view to introducing a top-level funding for specific resource-intensive training programmes.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue to provide the training grant for adult training as free resources, as described in today’s funding scheme.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for 11 months of study support during the current ageing period.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought back to Stortinget on different framework conditions for universities and colleges, in the light of the structural changes and the treatment of Report by Stortinget. St. 18 Concentration for Quality. [[2014-2015]] Structural reform in the higher education sector.’ The Greens want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e4215	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 58 votes were cast and 45 votes against the position of the committee to capital A Roman numeral I. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.41.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e4224	I forgot to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e4229	We're about to have a Christmas break, but first we're going to get to this voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-16.ana.ud1916e4653	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 16 December 2015: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 16 December 2015 at 1 p.m. 0930 is determined: 1. Government councils Thorhild Widvey, Tine Sundtoft and Robert Eriksson are pardoned. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Council of State Elisabeth Aspaker takes over the Management Board on matters relating to the coordination of EEA matters and the relationship with the EU in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Aspaker continues as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers with the specific task of being responsible for the coordination of Nordic cooperation issues. 3rd@item: inlistbox State Council Vidar Helgesen takes over the board of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. 4th@item: inlistbox State Council Sylvi Listhaug shall take over the Management of the Immigration Area of the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Integration Area of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. 5th@item: inlistbox Permanent Representative Per Sandberg is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Management Board of Fisheries in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. 6th@item: inlistbox Anniken Hauglie is appointed State Council and takes over the board of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. 7th@item: inlistbox Parliamentary representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the board of the Ministry of Culture. Eight. State Secretary Jon Georg Dale is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. 9th@item: inlistbox The ranking of the Government is determined in accordance with a proposal submitted. 10th@item: inlistbox State Secretarys Jon Georg Dale, John-Ragnar Aarset, Torkil Åmland and Morten Højlund are dismissed from office. 11th@item: inlistbox State Secretary Marit Berger Røsland is pardoned as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg and is re-appointed as State Secretary for Council of State Sylvi Listhaug. 12th@item: inlistbox State Secretary Jøran Kallmyr is pardoned as Secretary of State for Anders Anundsen and is re-appointed Secretary of State for Sylvi Listhaug. 13th@item: inlistbox State Secretary Amund Drønen Ringdal is pardoned as State Secretary to the Council of State Elisabeth Aspaker and is re-appointed as State Secretary to the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen. 14th @item: inlistbox Secretary of State Elsbeth Tronstad is pardoned as Secretary of State for Vidar Helgesen and is re-appointed as Secretary of State for the Council of State Elisabeth Aspaker. 15th Secretary of State Lars Andreas Lunde is pardoned as Secretary of State of the Council of Tine Sundtoft and is re-appointed as Secretary of State of the Council of State Vidar Helgesen. 16th@item: inlistbox State Secretary Kristian Dahlberg Hauge is pardoned as Secretary of State Robert Eriksson and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Anniken Hauglie. 17. State Secretary Thor Sättem is pardoned as Secretary of State Robert Eriksson and is re-appointed as Secretary of State for the Council of State Anniken Hauglie. 18th@item: inlistbox State Secretary Bjørgulf Vinje Borgundvaag is pardoned as Secretary of State for Thorhild Widvey and is again appointed State Secretary for State Council Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland. 19th@item: inlistbox State Secretary Hanne Maren Blåfjelldal is pardoned as Secretary of State for Sylvi Listhaug and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Jon Georg Dale. 20. Political adviser André Kolve is appointed State Secretary for State Council Siv Jensen. 21st Last@item: inlistbox Tom-Christer Nilsen is appointed Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. 22nd@item: inlistbox Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde is appointed State Secretary for State Council Tord Lien. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Hanne Caroline Simonsen Iversen is appointed State Secretary for State Council Sylvi Listhaug. 24th@item: inlistbox Ronny Berg is appointed State Secretary for Per Sandberg. 25-digit number Christl Kvam is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Anniken Hauglie with effect from 8 January 2016. 26. The Board of Folke Fredriksen is appointed State Secretary for State Council Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland with effect from 8 January 2016. 27. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 16 December 2015 at the latest. 13, unless specifically mentioned otherwise.’;» The President proposed that this letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. National Council changes entail the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The following alternates of the South-Trøndelag County meet as representatives at the time the representatives Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Per Sandberg are members of the Government: Torhild Aarbergsbotten and Lill Harriet Sandaune. It is important to adopt this today before tomorrow's meeting. That's why the president had to take it this way. This letter has been submitted to Stortinget and was accepted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
