ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e67	The representatives of Anniken Huitfeldt, Harald T. Nesvik, Jonas Gahr Støre and Ingjerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for alternates for the Nordland state, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, and for the Eastfold state, Tage Pettersen, now takes the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e104	First, let me thank the Stortinget for having the opportunity to come here and give this statement about the temporary armament of the police, which has now been in place for some time. I have, on two occasions, previously briefed the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the threat situation justifying the temporary armaments of the police. Of course, in my work on the matter of temporary weapons, I have taken the view that the Norwegian police should be unarmed, and I will follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget on 5 May this year. Temporary armament is an answer to what is an extraordinary situation, but none of us can say here and now how long that threat picture we are facing today will last. In assessing the alternatives we have in today's situation, it is necessary to take a short look back. On 21 November last year, the Ministry of Justice and Defence agreed to the temporary armaments of the uniformed response personnel of the police. The Ministry's decision was a response to a request made by the Directorate of Police on 18 November. The background to the request of the Police Directorate was again a threat assessment by the PST and the Joint Counter-Terrorist Centre of 31 October 2014. It described an increasingly serious threat picture. The Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre’s assessment was that in the next 12 months, a terrorist incident was likely to occur in Norway. It was a intelligence assessment and not a prognosis. It was underlined that there was no information about one or more specific actions. The threat assessment was an analysis based on a broad assessment of the available information. The PST and the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre based their assessment on several individual events and the general developments in this area. On 21 September 2014, ISIL published a speech by their spokesman Abu Muhammad al-Adnani. In the speech, Al-Adnani called for attacks on the United States and Europe in response to the fact that, according to him, they started war against the Muslims and the Islamic Caliphate and therefore had to pay the price for their actions. Al-Adnani invited, inter alia: killed infidel Americans and Europeans. French, Australian and Canadians were highlighted in particular, in addition to ‘citizens in the countries which have entered into an alliance with the Islamic State’. He continued to specify that the way this could happen was not material. The quotation itself is so dry that I do not reproduce it correctly. However, it is very clear that killing is encouraged and that the methods used are immaterial. The e-service considered this declaration to be a carte blanche to sympathizers in Europe who wanted to carry out terrorist attacks on their own initiative. It was further highlighted that the increased threat, among other things: could be explained by the following conditions: ISIL has a relatively large and increasing number of ideological followers in Norway who have a significant potential for violence. Norway’s military contribution to the coalition in Iraq could be used to legitimise terrorism in Norway. Three specific categories of objectives were identified: Military personnel police profiled policy makers in defence and foreign policy In the course of about six months since the Department agreed to the general armaments of uniform response personnel, the threat picture has been further intensified. Let me briefly mention: We have had terrorist acts in Paris and Copenhagen, in Canada, Australia, Tunis, Nigeria and Kenya. Planned terrorist actions have been stopped in several countries, most well-known being the action in Belgium in winter. ISIL and similar groups have carried out and even documented mass killings, executions and an extremely brutal behavior that has shocked and alarmed many, and led millions into flight. The PST has reported that they believe that the number of people in this country who support politically motivated violence is increasing. Several have emigrated as foreign warriors, while others are agitating for ISIL's intellect. We have seen similar developments in several other European countries. Several teams report ISIL attempting to infiltrate the refugee flow, both by placing sympathizers on boats across the Mediterranean and as transfer refugees to western countries. This has been clarified in new threat assessments by the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre and the Police Security Service, no later than 12 May this year. Much of this material is for good reasons and based on the Safety Act graduated, and I cannot go into detail and explain this here. But according to what is widely known, I believe that the situation today is unfortunately not less serious than what it was a little over six months ago. In the case of unupgraded material, I can refer to the 2015 open threat assessment from the Police Security Service. Its name is, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘The negative development of the threat situation in Norway is expected to continue in 2015. There are active extreme Islamic environments in Norway that attract new trailers and recruit foreign fighters. For several of these, Norway is an enemy.’ In the last seven years, according to the Joint Counter-Terrorist Centre, there have been a total of 24 terrorist attacks in the West, carried out by extreme Islamist groups. Of these, half — that is, 12 attacks — have been carried out in the last few years. The number of terrorist attacks in the West motivated by extreme Islamism is thus in marked increase. FKTS also reports that four of the twelve attacks, i.e. one third of these attacks, have been directed directly at the police. In addition, the police have been so-called secondary targets in several attacks, as in the case of Krudtøden in Copenhagen in February and in the case of the attack on Charlie Hebdo's premises in Paris in January this year. Of course, the armament of standardised response personnel is not the only instrument that has been assessed and implemented. In the light of the threat assessment by the Joint Counter-Terrorist Centre of 31 October 2014, the Police Directorate instructed the police districts to review their own security procedures. On 6 November 2014, the Police Directorate issued a proposal for risk and vulnerability reduction measures to the police. The Ministry has on several occasions stressed to the Directorate of Police that they need to assess alternative security measures that can reduce the threat to police officers. The Directorate of Police reports that this has been followed up. One example is that the Directorate of Police, in its leadership of the police officers on the implementation of the weapon, has been clear about adapting the weapon to the ‘type of service and mission’, which means that police districts should consider specifically the absence of weapons, for example, in the case of prevention services such as school visits, meetings with partners, etc. The assessment shall focus on whether armaments are inappropriate, impractical, to the detriment of the service or may be offensive to the public. On the last extension of the temporary armament, it was clarified: ‘armament shall take place only in those districts/parts of districts where, based on risk and vulnerability analyses, assessed against police response, it is considered necessary to enable the police to avert or halt actions that would pose a particular risk to life and health or to important societal functions’. The Ministry also asked to be kept informed about how the arms were being carried out, and that the Directorate should ensure that information on the armed situation was kept up to date at all times. Furthermore, the Ministry of Police asked the Directorate of Police to ‘develop measures to reduce the need for continued armaments’. Police have reported that they find it difficult to limit arms to certain geographical areas, as long as the threat is not geographically defined. At the same time, I believe it is important that we continually assess measures that could lead to police being unarmed in all situations. Weapons shall and must be based on an ongoing risk and vulnerability assessment. This has been communicated to the police, and I perceive that the police themselves want to assess the situations in which weapons are deemed appropriate and necessary. With regard to the practical consequences of the temporary armaments, the Directorate of Police has informed them that they have not received information suggesting that the armed forces have had a negative impact on the execution of the police service. Furthermore, the directorate has reported that it is not registered that the police have threatened with weapons to a greater extent than what has been the case before consenting to weapons was given. The Ministry has also assessed the basis for such temporary weapons, and we found that the police's weapons instructions did not initially provide a satisfactory basis for long-term and undetermined armed use of the police, especially since there was no concrete threat. Therefore, a temporary change was made to the police’s weapons instructions until the end of 2015/2016. The change means that the Ministry of Justice and Defence, under certain conditions, may agree that the Police Directorate decides to arm the police with one-handed weapons for a period of up to three months. The Ministry may agree to extend the arms by up to eight weeks at a time. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is now working on a new weapons directive for the police and aims to bring it into force at the end of the year 2015/2016. It will be based on the Norwegian police being unarmed. The new arms directive will also provide for the Ministry of Justice and Defence to be able to agree, under certain conditions, that the police should be armed over a period of time and that consent may be given to the extension of that period. We are also working on a legislative proposal to clarify the anti-armament regime in the police law. The Directorate of Police, in a letter dated 11 May of this year. requested the extension of the temporary armament expiring on Sunday 7 June d.o.b. In its request, the Police Directorate informs that the police districts have carried out an analysis on the basis of the leadership of the department. The Directorate has informed that, on condition that the Department agrees to extend the temporary armaments, they will re-assess the need for armaments, so that armaments take place when deemed necessary to ensure the self-security and performance of the response personnel. The Police Directorate has briefed that they are working on a new risk and vulnerability analysis based on the latest updated threat assessment by the Police Security Service. In the light of the assessments made by the Police Security Service and the Police Directorate, I have come to the conclusion that it would not be fair for me to reject the request for the continued temporary armament of police intervention personnel for a new eight-week period from 7 June, i.e. until 2 August of this year. As a prerequisite for continued armaments, I would like to ask the Police Directorate to ensure that each police district has developed risk and vulnerability analyses which indicate that there is a need for the armament of uniform response personnel. I will finally underline a few things that I have so far begun with. There is no doubt that the Norwegian police should be unarmed in the normal situation. The government will, of course, follow the clear leadership of the Great Government in this area. At the same time, I think it is important to keep the possibility that the police may be armed for periods when special circumstances make it necessary. Since this is a quite new situation and our system has not initially taken into account the situation we are now in, it is also necessary that the Stortinget be told about the frame of such a system. That is why we will come back to the Stortinget with proposals to amend the police law on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e203	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, that a short comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each group of parties and final statements from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e208	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the work he has done. I might have hoped for more information, but we'll take note of whatever information we get. The Labour Party is in favour of a temporary armament of the police when the case requires it. Whether or not this is the current situation, it must be evaluated at any time by the government. It's the government that knows the soundness and detail of the threat picture, and what it requires of countermeasures. The majority assumes that the government makes conscientious decisions. At the same time, it is also reasonable to ask some critical questions. The Minister of Justice referred to the number of attacks by Islamist extremists in the last six months. It is very serious that such attacks take place, and that they seem to increase in scope. So the question is, is it that general weapons have reduced or prevented such attacks? Three examples from the last year weren't supposed to do that. In Copenhagen, both the primary and secondary attacks took place in situations where Norwegian police too would have our weapons. In the case of an attack in Paris, the police were armed without hindrance to the situation. In Belgium in January, an attack on the police was stopped by the police themselves. These are situations where the Norwegian police too would have our weapons. These are some examples. One example of the unquestionable importance of weapons on the hip is the attack in the Ottawa Parliament last year. There was the security guard who had weapons, and who did what the situation required of him. The weapon is referred to as a temporary weapon, while the threat posed by the Ministry of Justice is not described in the same way – as the Secretary of State clearly pointed out to VG in April this year. In concrete terms, what is it that the Minister of Justice, I believe, is temporary when it comes to arms, when an answer to a threat that the Ministry of Justice seems not to be temporary? What do you want to see to reduce the security of your threat photo? And – most importantly, what is his plan to end the temporary armament of the Norwegian police? The State Secretary, however, asked rhetorically in the same newspaper interview about us who requested such a plan from the Minister of Justice to review the assessment of the Police Security Service. The answer to that is no. Because here it's also an important shade. The PST has not recommended armaments, and the working group in the Police Directorate, which was seen to evaluate any temporary weapons, was originally divided into its recommendation. It wrote the Minister of Justice himself in reply to me on 7 January this year on a written question. The use of temporary weapons is clearly sufficiently politically disputed that the working group was divided with regard to the original Council. So I'd like to say a few words about possible negative consequences that the Minister of Justice says the Police Directorate doesn't have information about. The Minister of Justice indicated that no such events have been reported. Then it's natural to ask how to define negative consequences. Last December, the fatherland friend was able to report on policemen who swooped to enter outdoors with guns on their hips. In February, the same newspaper reported that an armed policeman without uniform went into a non-service sports event, and according to what has been reported, he could not identify himself at the request of the met parents. I want to define these events as very unwanted. Why are these events not reported as negative consequences to the Directorate of Police? If anything, they show the attacks you've seen in the West in the last six months, the importance of good risk understanding, good intelligence, and possibly object protection in the form of point weapons. There are measures that are natural to further develop in a plan to reduce the need for temporary armaments that I expect the Minister of Justice to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e227	Thank you to the Council of State for giving a clear and clear statement with a very serious backcloth. The threat picture the Council of State draws is important for us to hear and get acquainted with. The temporary armament of 21 November last year is a consequence of that threat picture. When the council says that the threat picture is now no less serious, there is a great depth in this matter. Based on the information provided by the Police Directorate, the PST and the Joint Counter-Terrorist Centre, the Minister of Justice has given a clear picture of this today and with a conclusion on continued temporary arms. Police, military and decision-makers, i.e. inter alia: politicians are among those who are in the target of this threat. Actions in the last few months confirm the seriousness of the case. At the same time, there is no one who believes that the armed forces are the only tool that solves this threat picture, but it is probably the most nearby one. It is important to note what the Council of State says about the police's practice of temporary weapons. I hear a Council of State telling me about a police force that, in a wise and balanced way, practices this with flexibility and a situational understanding that safeguards both security and the general picture that every Norwegian police official and woman wants to create around herself by peace and security. It is also important to note that the Council of State points out that we are now gaining experience from the temporary armaments that it is important to include in legislation for future dealing with similar situations. It is entirely in line with what the Stortinget had previously debated – on 5 May in this Chamber – related to temporary armaments. That's good. We hear that the Council of State has informed the police that it will be eight new weeks with weapons until 2 August. On the basis of this statement, I support the assessment and conclusion given by the Council of State. I am pleased that the Council of State has followed up what the Stortinget has previously said, and come here to this room and explain to this important matter and the background why he, as the Council of State, is doing what he does and will still have a temporary armed police force, in this round until 2 August. So I thank you for the presentation, and we will all follow the situation closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e242	First, let me thank the Minister of Justice for a good statement on an unquestionably serious topic. Many in this room have been concerned about getting information related to the assessments made by the Minister of Justice and the Government, and I believe that the Minister of Justice delivered a good deal of information here today to the Stortinget. The Progress Party is pleased that the government is taking people’s security seriously in this matter as well. It's eventually an insecure world we live in. Yesterday, NTB could report that up to ten terrorists from the Islamic State had tried to get to Norway through the UN refugee quotas. Fortunately, the government has ensured that Norwegian intelligence is now closely involved in the selection of the Norwegian refugees. Unfortunately, it is impossible to reveal all terrorists in a democratic society. Government involvement in PST and intelligence can reveal much more than before, not least through the creation of 35 new anti-terrorist positions for PST in the budget. The government has strengthened the anti-terrorism effort by a total of SEK 130 million targeted in the revised budget, and I am pleased that the Progress Party in the Government has systematically strengthened preparedness. Nevertheless, it would be naive to believe that we will be able to expose all terrorists at the planning stage. When the unmistakable happens, it's often about seconds. Today’s threat picture therefore calls for the continuation of today’s temporary armaments. It is a resolution to which the Progress Party gives its full support. When the PST Chief presented the threat assessment for 2015, she stated, as the Minister of Justice said, that development is consistently negative. The PST assessment remains that by 2015 it is likely that Norway will be able to experience or experience a terrorist act. In such a situation, we need to make sure that we use the tools for which the law provides. I hope we can refrain from using security in a political game. It's too important for that. The police security service points in particular to active extreme Islamist environments in Norway that attract new trailers and recruit foreign fighters. So according to PST, there are now at least 70 Norwegian citizens fighting for the Islamic State, but the number can be higher. Persons who have participated in gross human rights violations, mass violence and genocide will be extremely radicalized and emotionally downgraded. These are people who could have both the ability and the willingness to attack Norway, a challenge that is quite extraordinary in Norwegian history. An extraordinary situation requires that we take advantage of the width of a piece of legislation that has a broad mass standing behind us. The authorisation for temporary arms is particularly linked to the intensified threat assessment in which police and military personnel are brought forward as particularly vulnerable and potential terrorist targets. We have seen in Europe that police and military personnel often appear to be legitimate terrorist targets for extreme groupings. In such a situation, it is important that the police are provided with the tools necessary to defend both themselves and the public. There is little chance of picking up advance weapons and plowing them if the police patrol itself is subjected to a terrorist attack. In such a situation it must act immediately. Norway is part of a globalised world and participates in international operations that may call for unwanted attention from some extremist communities. This doesn't mean we're going to give in to fear of terror. On the contrary, we should do our utmost to protect the Norwegian people and Norwegian values. Norway is not a lonely peninsula north of Europe but an actor in the international arena. At the same time, with the possibility of cross-border freedom of movement, it has made us more vulnerable to attacks we cannot prevent by some measures in Norway alone. In times of increased terrorist risk, we must therefore recognise that it is no longer as easy to prevent extremism as before, and we must use the necessary legal remedies in these cases. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice and the Government are listening so clearly to the professional advice given to them by those who have competence in this area, and I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is taking security very seriously. I note that there is a clear majority of people who want to keep today's opening in the law on temporary weapons if the threat situation so warrants. Now that the clear advice given by the Minister of Justice, who has been known to many of us for a long time, there is no doubt that this allows for an extension of today's temporary armaments. I hope that's a clear majority in Stortinget's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e268	I will also be allowed to thank the Minister of Justice for the statement and for coming to the Stortinget. It's an important discussion we have today. The police's basis for using power against citizens must be clear and clear, it is absolutely essential to ensure the trust of the police. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State warns that he will come back to Stortinget with a proposition that will also allow the possibility of armaments when it turns out to be going over a longer period of time. Now the Minister of Justice warns that the police will be able to have a temporary weapon in approx. Nine months, until August, and we're approaching one year. We're at a point where one can ask questions about whether this can actually be characterised as temporary longer. Therefore, it is important to provide the basis when it lasts over longer periods, and I believe that if it approaches a year, few will use the word ‘temporarily’ about it. That's why there's reason to ask some questions. For example, the Minister of Justice shows that measures are being implemented to combat the terrorist threat and reduce the risk. But what kind of action is being taken? The question is also whether there is a plan to implement these other measures in order to eventually remove the weapon. Is the threat such that it must be armed, or is it possible for other measures to replace hip-arming, and what might that be? It's a legitimate discussion that Stortinget should take. When a unanimous increase has just said that we should have an unarmed police force, as the Council of State states, it is important that the Stortinget is also included in the other measures, and whether or not funds are needed to implement it. The interesting question is what to do in order to be able to withdraw the temporary weapon. Or is it possible – as I said – to provide the alternative measures at all? I have another question that is more philosophical, and it's about the United Kingdom. What is the reason Norway chooses temporary weapons when the United Kingdom does not have them? It would have been interesting if the Minister of Justice could reflect on it. For the Christian People's Party, general arms are a question of a principle nature, because it's a question of what kind of police we want, and of what society we want. We have just reached an agreement on new police reform, where we state that the police should have a civil character. An armed police force has a significantly less civil character. The task of the Council of State is to carry out what the Grand Council decides, and a unanimous decision in the Grand Duchy a month ago to ensure that we have an unarmed police force, and the Council of State must take care of that. The police need weapons in some situations, it is important to underline, and it is important to stress that when they need weapons, they need to get them quickly. But instead of always walking around with weapons on their hips, the Storting has adopted forward storage, i.e. storage in cars and short, fast command lines, so that when weapons are needed, the police get them quickly. The threat assessment underlying the temporary armament situation we now have does not provide sufficient grounds for the Storting to fully assess, because what the Council of State says is classified information. However, there is a basis for pointing out that it is absolutely essential that the Council of State actually does what it can to introduce other measures to combat the terrorist threat — both intelligence and other risk mitigation measures. As others have pointed out, Copenhagen is an example. It is likely that the police would also have been armed in Norway in such a situation, because point and object security will be a very important measure. Researchers at the Swedish Defence Research Institute have also pointed that out. Among other things, they wrote in a chronicle in the VG in December, which I will quote from: ‘The armed gate police have stopped attacking so far in Europe, but the threat picture is changing.’ And on the other hand, ‘More weapons in the streets can at best limit – hardly prevent – the terror that threatens Norway.’ They have conducted a study in which they looked at 76 planned and carried out attacks from 2001 to the present day. They concluded that there are few historical examples of armed police actually stopping the terrorist attacks, but they point out – again like the United Kingdom – that there is a need for more object and point protection. It's the government that has insight into the threat assessment, the Storting doesn't know it. We all have a goal of getting back to a situation where one does not have to have armed police — both to get the level of threat to go down and find alternative measures. This is the responsibility of the Council of State to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e300	I will also be allowed to thank the Minister of Justice for the presentation. The preliminary armament of the Norwegian police since November 2014 implies a kind of long-standing state of emergency in relation to what is the norm for Norwegian police, namely that Norwegian police do not carry weapons for daily use. This means that 5,800 police officers all over the country have been carrying guns every day since before Christmas last year, and we don't know how long it'll be. The situation of a police force that is constantly being told to carry weapons for daily use forces itself naturally into the debate on the general armaments of the police. That is what also makes this debate so important, that it can contain both professional assessments of the threat picture and of the situation and also fundamental and value-based questions about what kind of police we want in this country. The central party takes the government's view that one should extend the possibility of carrying weapons for eight weeks in advance. It's hard, not to say impossible, to do anything else. We do not have the opportunity to review the assessments that have come from the professional sector, and from the government, at that point. But I want to say that there is a big dilemma that, as the Council of State today presents the threat picture, it seems to be a more or less permanent situation that is being described, while a constant saying that the extension of armaments that you add up to is a maximum temporary situation. It's a dilemma for all of us, and it also requires the question of whether the government has any sense of how long such a situation will last. I must also say that the Central Party is a little surprised that the police authorities do not find grounds to differentiate the question of arms for the various police districts. We believe that this could – and should – be possible, but we record that the Police Directorate does not see it as possible. I guess I have to say -- if I can be so free -- that seeing the armed police inside the party halls in Trøndelag, and the question of the need for it in a situation like this, are at least things that could have been gone through. Then I think the Minister of Justice is a little too small to address what measures have been taken to reduce the need for it. It is also a question that the Minister of Justice mentioned, which has been raised in the past, and which I do not think we have been fully explained. The central party will decide on any changes to the police law when they have to come, and we will also record what the council says about the weapon instructions. But I also think there is reason to ask the Council of State – and I see that there are several representatives who have been involved in the same thing – whether there are any thoughts of some sort of stepping down arms after the new eight weeks that one is now adding, and how far the Ministry of Justice has come into such thinking. Finally, let me repeat the words of the representative of Leirstein and turn them into mine: we must refrain from using this issue of threat assessments for a political game that is about the general armament of the Norwegian police. It is a responsibility for all of us, not least the government parties Right and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e317	Let me also start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation on a very important matter. Let me begin by stressing that we in the Left too are in order to have the opportunity to arm the police in general or temporarily in a special situation of terror, which we now have, and that we must, as a accumulation, assume that the Council of State, together with its, is conscientiously assessing whether the need for a general temporary armament is present. Then I am glad that the Council of State is so clear when he determines that we are going to have an unarmed police force in Norway, and that we are going to follow up the decision of the Stortinget for approx. A month ago. But I still think there's good reason to be concerned that a temporary condition that's been going on for six months is going on to become some kind of permanent condition. It is clear from the statement by the Council of State that the image of terror in which we now have, and in which the provisional weapon is justified, is not temporary. There is something that seems to be able to persist, and then I think it is important that we ask ourselves if there is a weapon that is the only – or the best – answer to the threat of terror that we are now facing and that we are going to stand in the future. I want to refer to an article that was in the VG last December, written by three researchers at the FFI. That's where they say: ‘Our study identified 76 planned and carried out attacks from 2001 to today where the attack mode is known. In most events, the element of surprise was too great to allow the armed police to make a difference.’ That is why I think there is reason to challenge the Council of State on some points in terms of this temporary armament. Firstly, I want the Council of State to respond more closely to how we can combine the desire and decision on an unarmed police force with today's threat picture, which is not only today, but which we can also see in the future. So I'd like to hear the Council of State's thoughts and assessments of how we can reduce arms below the threat level that we have today. Like Marit Arnstad, I also think there would have been reason to look at it a little bit more closely with geographical constraints, even though the police themselves have said that they don't see it as appropriate. But I think the Council of State should consider whether there can be more point-arming instead of a general temporary weapon, whether there is a need for clearer guidance on when to carry the weapon and when not to carry it, along with a geographical demarcation – an assessment of it. Then I think there's reason to look at other countries, how they live with an unarmed police under the same threat level as we have. It is close to referring to the United Kingdom, which has lived with a threat level for a long time, but has chosen not to have a generally armed police force and has maintained it for many years. In the end, I want to end with a quote from the same article, where these three researchers finally write: ‘Nevertheless, we must not forget that our best protection against terrorism is not the gun, but good intelligence. Courageous infiltrators and sharp analysts have averted far more terrorist attacks in Europe in recent years than armed police patrols. Several weapons in the streets can at best limit — hardly prevent — the terror threatening Norway.’ So we have far greater challenges ahead of us than a temporary armed police can solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e345	I would also like to thank the Council of State for its distribution. It's good he comes to Stortinget – and it's time, I'll add it. However, I would say that SV is strongly critical of the way in which the Minister of Justice has dealt with the issue of temporary armaments. He should have taken this initiative at an early stage, instead of actually being dragged to the main hall. It's legal not to do it, but it would be wise to do it. Such a type of decision can and should have an additional anchor, not least at the same time as the debate on the general armaments took place, because it gives openness, public debate and knowledge to the people about why measures have been put in place, and because the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee is not suitable for that kind of thing. That's what can be presented in the openroom that's suitable for big things, and that people can look over the whole country and stick to. Then there is a special situation here that has been clear from the beginning and does it extra topically: it is difficult to understand how the temporary weapon should pass, because what gives it is not temporary – unfortunately. The threat from the IS consists and hardly goes over with the first. The threat is general, he is little specific and little measurable – as we have heard the Minister of Justice also explain. I fear that as it is now temporary, things will first change for a long time, or even for a long time. I want to make it clear that what I'm afraid of isn't a deliberate snitching, but that it's going to be a situation, because the threat that's behind it is going to last for years. So for the future, I ask the Council of State to search for openness and anchoring, instead of being dragged into it. So I attach great trust to PST's threat assessment. I have also had the opportunity to hear about it in an in-depth version from the beginning of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. I have great respect for professional advice in every field, but professional advice is not decisions; they are advice. In this case, we first know that the original working group was divided into this issue, and we know that a number of professionals have been critical of the decision. So we're going to have different professional advice. I mean the basic question is still a bad one: does the Norwegian police temporarily arm us more safely against the global general threat we're talking about? If Stortinget believes that we in Norway should not have permanent armed police, we must ask ourselves the question of whether it is now, in this situation here, which may take a long time, that we make ourselves clearer by having it temporarily. I am, and SV is – like all the parties here – some in that there must be an access to temporary weapons, but I can't see that the way it is handled now has been a good security measure. There is no known connection, as I know at least, between terror and countries with unarmed police, and I think the alternatives seem to be little worked through. Therefore, I will end by saying that SV was behind the original temporary weapon when it came. We assumed that it was a wise operationalization and a wise advice on how to deal with the threat. We still thought it would appear to be too weak a foundation in publicity and unplanned for where one should go. There is a need for both a clear criterion and a plan for how we should no longer have the temporary armament, how it should not be permanent, and there is a need to work systematically with the alternatives. If, in a short time, the Minister of Justice does not take action on the situation and submit proposals and measures to that effect, SV will strongly consider something unusual in terms of security, e.g. making a proposal on it in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e362	Thank you to the Minister of Justice for a thorough presentation. It is good that the work on a new weapons directive is now based on an explicit decision in Stortinget that the police in Norway should be unarmed. But we are, as all the speakers have pointed out – more or less – on the way into an increasingly worrying situation with a new extension of the temporary armaments, now in August. This is another strong signal that we have a course for something that becomes a self-confirming and self-enhancing situation. Unfortunately, as everyone knows, there is every reason to believe that the international conflict situation in and around Europe will continue for a long time. And that is unfortunately reason to assume that, as a result of that, and perhaps also of other circumstances, economic development, etc. – will be a situation where the level of threat and the threat of terrorism are higher than what we considered normal just a few years ago. As a result, there is also reason to be concerned that the set-up of the apparatus and the priorities of the Authority, with threat assessments, with increased monitoring activity, with new measures, will make it increasingly difficult for these authorities to take responsibility for not providing advice on general arms and additional measures, because the starting point is the assumption that we are in an extreme situation – or in an abnormal situation, in order to express it better. So there's a significant danger that the way we deal with today's threat situation, in itself, becomes a factor that makes the situation we're in now, with the temporary armament of the police, into a normal situation. So at the top of this, the threat assessments are graded. They should be, we should rely on our government when it makes the assessments, but it does so that in such a case-to-case development as we now have, the Storting is very much on the sideline and without any reason to make a real assessment as to whether the acute threat assessment and the acute advice on weapons are correct or not. It is therefore necessary for the Stortinget, and for the government, to inculcate the basic principle – which fortunately everyone, including the Minister of Justice, confirms – that Norwegian police are unarmed. This is a social value that we have to stretch to keep, because the value of it is greater than the cost of undermining or giving exemptions from it. The point is that this has to become a greater premise for the advice of the authorities. Of course, we also need to take seriously what many have pointed out, that there is a lot of – of course not everything, but a lot of – experience that suggests that arming the police themselves is not a particularly effective measure to reduce a terrorist threat. What we have to do is to adjust to a normal situation that, first of all, contains a high level of international conflict, which, secondly, contains a permanently higher level of terrorist threat than we have been accustomed to so far, and which, thirdly, contains an unarmed Norwegian police force. This must be a premise for the advice we get, and the choices made. The Green Party supports the measures announced in the past to provide operational police units with a more direct opportunity to determine weapons in an emergency situation, and we also support the continuation of a law opening up temporary weapons. But in the further investigation that the Minister of Justice has announced, we strongly urge that the very purpose must be to describe a situation which is such that we face a permanently higher terrorist threat with an unarmed police, and that the advice and means chosen should be based on it, and that recommending continuous expansions of a temporary weapon to a very small extent is a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e384	I would like to thank the Stortinget for a good and reflective debate, which in a rather illustrative way points to the dilemmas one faces when one on the one hand agrees to have an unarmed police in the normal situation, and on the other hand has the opportunity to have a temporarily armed police force when there are particular reasons for it. I agree that there may be discussions at the heart of professional recommendations and policies. But I want to stress the importance of making use of the professional assessments of the threat picture that can change and that are still changing. Although there has been a recent change in the negative direction, the threat picture may change in a different direction, providing a different basis for action. As I explained in the post, a number of alternative measures have been assessed by the Directorate of Police. Some of them have been completed, some of them are not speaking out loud, but none of the measures that the police have found can replace the temporary weapons that they have today asked for extension, and that I am prepared to extend for another eight weeks. I'm concerned that we're going to take these dilemmas very seriously, and that's why we're also adding up to a proposition to clarify the police law at this point. It is at the point where the Storting really gets the opportunity to set any framework for temporary armaments, to decide what to consider as unimportant today, and to take the big discussion if one believes it is the basis for having a different practice than is the case today. Once I have extended the temporary armaments, it is after an assessment on its own merits of the threat picture provided by the PST and the FKTS, and of the recommendation of measures that the Directorate of Police professionally comes up with. There is an assessment carried out every 8 weeks. There are quite strict conditions and expectations for the follow-up of the Police Directorate, not least whether there have been several of them and which are linked to the possibility of geographical differences in practice, a more stringent interpretation of when there is a need for an unarmed mission. These are measures that the Police Directorate will conscientiously follow up. It is not the case in Norwegian police management that a person is looking for a higher level of armament than is necessary. I am confident that the professional assessments that come are actually based on what the Directorate of Police believes to be professionally sound. Therefore, it is difficult to come up with a sort of degressive plan, which has been discussed by many. This is because one has to take into account the situation that always applies. Therefore, the introduction of a policy degressive plan based on a time-frame would not be a matter of professional concern. It is a rather demanding political responsibility if you are to act in this way in contravention of clear professional recommendations. There is also something that I and Stortinget have to include in the assessments to be made in this area in the continuation. So I can't give a kind of time to stop the temporary weaponry. It will be assessed on an ongoing basis and there are quite strict restrictions on the time period. It is not that this one is a decision that is valid until further notice. A new concrete assessment is carried out every eight weeks. I believe that this is also a good democratic assurance that the government actually follows up the leaders of the Storting as well as possible and combines it with the professional advice within the framework that the government and I believe is sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e397	This concludes the debate on the presentation. The President proposes that the matter be annexed to the minutes. Are there any other proposals to deal with the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e402	The proposal is that the Committee be sent for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e407	Then it opens up for a short round of further treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e410	A brief presentation: The Right Party and the Advance Party will support a transmission to the Committee. Nevertheless, I would like to clarify the following: we do not therefore assume that there is a new practice that all statements are automatically referred to committee. What distinguishes this matter especially, with that clarification, is that the Storting recently debated exactly the same topic, on 5 May. We get a proposition, the Council of State has said from this pulpit, on the same theme, not fixed-term, but probably not for that long. In addition, the statement is based on information that is not publicly available. There are colleges sitting on it, so I'm in doubt what the decision-making basis the Justice Committee has in that case to comment on this further. But, as I said, we are, of course, prepared to deal with this matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e417	I just want to make it clear that the debate we had on May 5 wasn't exactly the same. It's about general weaponry. This matter is about the temporary armaments. I also recorded that the Council of State did not respond to all the questions raised during the debate, and there may be many reasons for doing so. I think that he will probably appreciate the possibility of further consideration in the committee so that he can give a full answer to the questions he has not yet received.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e422	The President will then state that, at the end of today's meeting, we allocate the matter to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e436	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e443	Myra may have appeared unexpectedly on the Storting's agenda. We have been used to treating ants as a water-stretched uves, which can be dried, grown or burned at best. Simpforskog has been a water-sick forest, where you get soft on your legs, and ants have been little understood as a value. Our lack of understanding of ants has made us bury, grow, let it grow again or built down more than a third of the country's ants, and after that is still only 6 pst. of our remaining ants protected. This is an old-fashioned view of ants. It's out of date, and it's out of knowledge. Ants are one of nature's wonders: Millions of individuals and 52 different species of peat moss build – one millimeter a year – ants that grow thicker and thicker through thousands of thousands of years in our country. In myriads of thousands of years deep, it's oxygen-free, and there's the photosynthetic carbon of the peat moss that's trapped from the air, not broken down. Neither will the history of pollen, which gives us enormous knowledge of the past, nor, for that matter, the bronze age-men who must have ended up in that ant for some reason. Myra’s large amounts of stored carbon are kept away from the atmosphere in the future – in a human perspective. Therefore, ants have an extremely important role as carbon stocks in mainland Norway. 3.1 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent are stored in Norwegian ants. And all of you present in the room now know that the annual emissions in Norway are 53 million tonnes. At least 5 pst. Today, our greenhouse gas emissions stem from ants that have been re-cultivated and where the carbon stored there is once again beginning to release. So ants are the beginning of coal, and the large amounts of coal used in the world today were once ants. That's why we have to treat ants then. Instead of short-term attempts to create profitability by destroying ants, we have to treat them as ecosystems that can do what they are very good at: be important nature, take care of large species, store huge amounts of carbon and damp floods. In common, the peat moss – which is a total ant – acts as a giant sponge that dampens floods and cleanses water, completely free of charge. Our peat ants are very special ecosystems, with a unique diversity of fungi, plants, insects and birds. Many of them are on the red lists of endangered species in Norway. Norwegian antrusion is – because it lies far north and far west – a very special variation in European context. We know the ants, with dancing mist and rocking ants, and that makes them beautiful landscapes for outdoor-loving Northmen – and those who look after well, have seen up there over the years as well. The Greens are pleased and grateful that the Left has promoted a proposal for a more holistic and long-term management of ants. We've been excited about SABIMA's ant campaign, because Norway needs the help that solid bio-diversity organisations can provide to improve Norwegian nature management. With this setting, we provide a basis for more responsible management of our ants. Fortunately, the majority of the Committee is clearly informed to amend the constituent investigation regulation, so that all peat take-offs now need to be subject to impact assessment before they may be launched. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that in the Chamber there is no majority for a number of the other very important and good proposals that should have been adopted in order to have an up-to-date and modern administration of Norwegian ants. There is not a majority to include all myr emissions in the Norwegian climate accounts; there is no majority to have knowledge of the climate effects of quarrying and cultivation; there is no majority to prevent the re-allocation of bogs for forestry, under the cover of so-called gryfterish. There is also no majority for a phase-out plan for the use of peat in soil products, nor for the protection of more bogs, nor for calling the concession given for peat farming at Jødahlsmåsan in Akershus. These are lost opportunities for the Storting, and we're disappointed that this is happening once again in a magnification period, in an alliance between the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party. This must seem unfortunate and strange to the natural and knowledge-oriented peoples of these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e465	The issue we are dealing with today is how we can and should take care of the ant areas of the country. Personally, I will admit that I have had a relatively steep learning curve in this matter, but I have not been little impressed by what I have learned about ants and its excellence. Ants are natural goods that directly contribute their goods through ecosystem services. With its unique biodiversity — such as water treatment, water storage, flood dumps and a unique carbon stock — myra is a resource for the whole community. About 15 pst. of all endangered and almost endangered species in Norway are found in ants. A lot of people are on the red list. There is reason enough for ants to be one of the areas of particular importance. Therefore, we need to avoid extensive intervention, reduction and depletion of ants in Norway. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus that ants are important, and that there is agreement that ants must be taken much more seriously than has been the case so far. Forests and ants are one of the world's largest carbon stocks and can continue to capture and store carbon as long as no interference is made in the ants. If the ant drains, the peat moss dies, and the carbon capture stops up. In addition, the peat down into the ants will begin to be transformed and leak large amounts of carbon, for example. as CO2 emissions. Norway shall cut 40 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Emissions from ants in their entirety mean that I have to be included in the Norwegian climate accounting. It is good that the Environment Directorate has recently launched a project for the restoration of ants. It can be both a good climate action and a better ecological status in the areas being restored. Nevertheless, there is a paradox that the ants must be restored back to their original function after interventions that have degraded biodiversity. In principle, we must use the precautionary principle to prevent interference. By protecting the most endangered ant types, we will be able to prevent new climate emissions and preserve biodiversity and ecosystem services from myra. Plant land often contains large amounts of peat extracted from ants. Products labelled as horticultural and plant land may consist of up to 100 pst. peat. We think we've bought land into the garden, but in reality we've been involved in raging an ants and helping to destroy the habitats of diverse species and to increase greenhouse gas emissions. Such products should be phased out from the market, but in the first place, simple labelling can at least make it easier for us consumers to act correctly and sustainably. There is a need for a tightening of current legislation. The management of ants must become more sustainable. We believe it is important to change the regulation, so that you can no longer allow an ant to be excavated and sold as peat through an administrative decision in a municipality. Knowledge of climate impacts needs to be acquired before an ant is cultivated, and the rules that we already have against reintroducing ants for forestry need to be enforced more consistently. Even though the rendition of ants is forbidden, we see old and more or less reclaimed ditches being cleared in areas where there is no productive forest. The result is the drying of the ant areas, which destroys functioning ants and swamp forest. The Workers' Party believes that the notification of the Action Plan on Natural Diversity must put forward a plan primarily for the protection of ants and for the restoration of destroyed ants. We need to put the important tools in place. I regret that a few good proposals that are being promoted here today will not be adopted. But that we have this debate at all, and that there is a majority in favour of the motion for a resolution II – on impact assessment – I believe that is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e487	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the picturesque description of the ant that he had in his post. This proposal for a representative on a more comprehensive and long-term management of ants in Norway deals with an important topic in many different areas, and not least we see it as the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that has answered the committee on behalf of the government on the issues raised in the proposal. A total of three departments are responsible for the legislation relating to moorings. Issues related to natural diversity, ecosystem services, etc. is located in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, legislation related to peat harvesting is in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and – ultimately – agriculture on former moorland is the natural responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The letter to the Committee of Ministers for Food and Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug, dated 21 April 2015, sets out a number of upcoming key messages that are addressed by the issues raised by the draft representative. As regards natural diversity and ecosystem services in ants, an overall committee agrees that the wide variation in Norwegian ants are of great importance for biodiversity. In these watery times, I would particularly like to point out that ants also have an important function for water treatment, and as a reservoir of water by damping floods. The importance of good ant management in order to achieve the environmental objectives of the water management plans according to the water regulations is one example here. The threats to the remaining ant areas are many, such as mining, quarrying, cultivation and peat production. In the past, until 1996, subsidies were granted for new cultivation and quarrying, which has led to an impact on 2000 and 4000 km2 of bogs, respectively. In the view of the Right, today we have good protection processes linked to ants, which also provide the landowners with the compensation they are entitled to. The law today is good both in terms of the use of bogs for agricultural and forestry purposes and in terms of bogs as a contribution to the storage of greenhouse gases. However, the Right is also aware that the issues of protection, restoration and care of ants are important, and that they should be addressed in a thorough and cross-sectoral manner in the context of the notified monitoring messages on the Action Plan on Natural Diversity, on agriculture and on forestry and wood industry. In general, there is a great deal of consensus about the reality description, but we in the Right have great faith that the government will come back to issues related to the ant management in current staging messages, and sees no need for detailed guidance at these points. It should be sufficient for the Minister of Agriculture and Food, on behalf of the entire government, to make this very clear in his letter of reply. I would therefore like to address the proposal put forward in the case by the Right, the Progress Party and the Central Party, where the Stortinget asks for an assessment to be made of the current issues relating to the ants in the previous bigoting messages. So finally, a few words about the proposal to tighten up the requirement for impact assessments, which is likely to have a majority in the Chamber today. It is proposed that current legislation should be extended to areas less than 1500 deer and 2 million deer. m3 in the case of removals of peat ‘for major commercial activities’, as stated in the notes. However, peat cutting in areas up to 1500 dechar is also covered by today’s impact assessment requirements if it is considered that they can have significant effects on the environment and society. Both natural diversity and greenhouse gas emissions are included in the given assessment criteria. This proposal will reverse the simplification of the legislation on impact studies carried out in 2014 to which the Stortinget agreed by the decision of Prop. 61 L, and I think it's a pity that the mass mass here is going in the opposite direction of simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e513	It proposes a majority in this case, the proposal for Decision II, «on the impact assessment on peat extraction below 2 million. m3 or on moorings of less than 1500 dekar’ is in itself a contradiction. The reason is that the proposal would be contrary to the provision of the regulation as such and would reverse the simplification of the legislation on impact assessments to which the Stortinget joined and which was implemented in 2014, following a decision taken in connection with Prop. 61 L for 2013–2014 on amendments to the Planning and Construction Treatment Act Chapter 14 and the Regulation on Impact Assessments for Plans under the Planning and Building Act and the Regulation on Impact Assessments for Measures under the Sectoral Act of 19 December 2014. The proposal therefore runs counter to the decision taken by the Stortinget itself one year ago. The parts that are behind this Roman numeral proposal, in fact, are going in the opposite direction of simplification. In other words, you want more bureaucracy. I have no problem dealing with the fact that members of the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party or the Labour Party want impact assessments of almost all of Norway's ants and peat. None of these parties want primary industries in Norway and have zero respect for private ownership. If they had got their will, most of it would be collective farming. This proposal is a serious attack on private property and use rights in Norway. It has to be verified almost everywhere, and I like to see that farmer, or that industry, who wants to make withdrawals, and who has economic muscles to carry out impact assessments. It goes a little cold down my back when I see that parties like the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party sell private property rights and the right of use on the altar of climate policy. The centre party, which has always been proud of private ownership and right of use, leaves today a line that has characterized the lot by any crossroads. That the Left and Christian People's Party chooses to go against its own co-operation parties and large-scale decisions, with their kgl. The resolution of 19 December 2014 shows that the two parties are not predictable, and that they represent a policy that nobody knows the answer to – neither yesterday, today or tomorrow. It is a pity to conclude that the model of simplification that was once agreed – even a year ago – is now abandoned, and that this crossroads is actually in favour of getting more bureaucracy, undermining private property rights and undermining private rights of use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e529	As our knowledge of nature, context and diversity values increases, it would be to hope that we wisely took the consequences of this knowledge. An ant, which a few decades ago many were regarded as unproductive and useless land, we know today has enormous importance both for species diversity and for natural water storage. The latter is not only important because it is flood-proofing, but also because it creates an oasis for many species, where ants represent a completely different local environment than the surrounding areas. We are therefore pleased that a handful of left-wing representatives are promoting this proposal for a representative, and we are pleased to be able to support it, as indicated in the Committee's recommendation. Of course, we have noticed that the Minister of Agriculture, in a letter to the Stortinget, has made it clear that the government, through several departments, intends to intervene in the ant management. However, we support the proposal for a representative. There is a need for systematic action to secure this type of landscape. Some people may think that a specific wording on ‘storage’ is above all detailed for Parliament to deal with, but we also see the value of such clarification. Some decades ago — in a good sense, but certainly in a lack of knowledge about the consequences — some misrepresentation was made, which did not result in the establishment of productive forests, as one certainly wanted. It is important that these areas are not open to further and more extensive ditching. Again: We have on the table a case that places some restrictions on business. However, in a larger picture, forestry is also fundamentally dependent not only on high-bonity production land but also on forest diversity, of which ants are a very important part. The Christian People's Party bases the precautionary principle, along with a fundamental respect for the contexts of nature. It is therefore obvious to us that we support this excellent proposal for a representative, as the Committee recommends. As historically interested, I cannot help but draw attention to the fact that myra as a nature type also has a very special place in Norway's constitutional history. To clarify that, I would like to quote from Wikipedia a little bit about ants: ‘Murders were an expression used about Norwegian citizens who, in the 1880s, obtained the right to vote by buying worthless land, like ants. The practice is due to the fact that, until 1884, the Constitution gave only the right to vote to owners of matriculated land. It was the Left who took up Marcus Thrane's old idea of buying antlopes for propertyless. There was no requirement in the law as to the size of these ants. The head of the labour society Andreas Hølaas of Kristiana was one of those who led the work of registering ants. Christian Holtermann Knudsen, one of the pioneers in the labour movement, organised their own voting campaign on the same subject on 17 May. This time lawyers failed to prevent such purchases and the election became a major victory for the Left in 1882.» So, from a historical and constitutional point of view, it's both timely and understandable that there's a bunch of left-wing people promoting a proposal for the protection of ants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e560	The last one was an interesting article in the debate, and it may be important for the Left to think that it was the cultivation of ants that provided the Left Progress once in a while. The centre party believes that we have had good processes in the committee related to this issue. There is no doubt that ants are an important part of the natural diversity in Norway. It contains many different species, and there is no doubt that the properties of myra oblige us to manage it both long-term and knowledge-based. That means that sometimes protection is a right tool, sometimes it's not. There is a need to protect important ant areas from being built, cultivated and buried, but it is not always right to do so. It's at all a consideration of how to evaluate the values that myra holds. I also want to point out that in the case of ants, it is actually so that this is one of the areas where we have had good and thorough protection processes in the past. There has been quite a large area of ants in Norway that has been protected, but there is a challenge today in terms of both restoration, care and follow-up of what are already protected areas. As important as protecting new ant areas in the future, it is to have a proper follow-up of the ant areas that are already protected in our country. The suspension concludes that the Centre Party believes that the legislation is initially sufficient for the use of bogs for soil and forest purposes and also for bogs as a contribution to the storage of greenhouse gases. I think there's a reason to mention that one of the considerations we're facing is, among other things, the fact that we see a significant reduction in cultivated land. Food soil is a limited resource – only 3 pst. the land area is suitable for food production — and as long as a good part of the crop area leaves the farm, it is not possible to prevent the possibility of growing new land. I also think there is reason to point out that, from a climate perspective, it is important to maintain a high growth rate in the forest and actively use forest resources, and the maintenance of ditches is an important measure in this context. The issues of protection, restoration and care of ants are important and should be addressed in the forthcoming major messages on nature diversity, agriculture and forestry. For the Central Party, it is important to see this in context, not only that this is linked to a big message about natural diversity, but that it is also seen in relation to the forthcoming communications on agriculture and forestry. There are different considerations that need to be weighed against each other, and that is exactly what the big messages need to be discussed. The centre party is therefore not going to support proposals to amend the new cultivation regulation or to ban the Countess, and we would stress that it should be dealt with in a broader context. As the representative Hansson had in mind, we do not agree with comments that state that one today will include emissions from ants in their entirety in the climate accounts. We believe that it should also be considered in the context of the overall sources of greenhouse gas emissions and how to assess the burden in the different areas of greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of impact assessment. The centre party supports the proposal to investigate the impact of peat removals below 1500 dekars, but I would like to make it clear that this applies – as it says in the setting – to all peat extractions ‘to major commercial activities’. I would like to stress that on the part of the Centre Party, it is a condition that it applies to all peat extractions to major commercial activities. So this does not apply to all peat outlets, and it is clearly specified in the setting. And it's up to the government to both define the regulation and also to interpret how a person looks at it with “major commercial activity”, because it's also a balance that has to be made when a regulation establishes a regulation related to it. Then I must also be allowed to say that if the representative of the Progress Party then wants to interpret it to that point that this applies to all torso withdrawals, it is quite possible, but I would say it is a pity if the Progress Party interprets it to you, because that is not what is in the position. We give the government and government parties the full opportunity to interpret and prepare a regulation, in accordance with what is actually in the setting, which limits it against smaller withdrawals for their own use, or private use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e581	We have long lines in the Left, and we've been busy with the value of ants for well over 100 years, actually, in the whole party's history. It also repeats today. In this way, it is timely, since it was the Left who went in order to have the opportunity to purchase ants, that it is also the Left who looks at the consequences of the policy for well over 100 years, for how we now have to adjust in order to better care for ants in Norway. The value of ants lies there, and we're aware of that. Otherwise, I'm very happy with the positive basic tone that's in all parties because there's a need to have a greater awareness of ants and how we take care of it, and also that during the process of this matter on the Storting there are many who have learned a lot. Myra has also received attention. I would particularly commend SABIMA for the attention they have given about ants. But then, because this is important: Myr covers approx. 8 pst. of the land area in Norway. Ants are defined as a land area with moisturizing vegetation that forms peat, and at least one third of the original area under the forest boundary has been used for agricultural and expansion purposes today. In the lowlands of South Norway, a significantly greater proportion of the ants are used for other purposes, and they are thus destroyed as natural systems. In many areas, for example: in Westfold and in large parts of Akershus and Eastfold, virtually all major ants that are not peaceable, lost or heavily influenced by technical intervention. This is why we are promoting these proposals, that there is a need to look at how we better care for ant areas in Norway, because, as the case-law rapporteur Rasmus Hansson pointed out, there are great values in Norwegian ants. They have a significant impact on natural diversity. Peanuts were mentioned specifically. Of the 55 species that occur in Europe, 52 are in Norway. The ants have a very rich avian life, and the red list includes 443 endangered and nearly endangered species that have wetlands and water edges, which make up about 15 pst. of all endangered and highly endangered species in Norway. According to the Species Database, Norway is home to more than 20 species of ants, and a whole of 11 of these ants are on the red list. Of course, ants also have an important role to play in water purification as a reservoir of water and in damping floods, which are important, not least at a time when we also need to take care of climate adaptation. Changes will come, and we also need to have awareness of the role of ants to mitigate those changes. But first of all, ant binds a lot of carbon. Several figures have been mentioned earlier in the case. Carbon equivalent to 300000 tonnes of CO2 may be stored in several metres of deep peat for only one square kilometre. Boreal forests and their ants are one of the world's largest carbon stocks and must then be managed. For the Left, it is important that we have the same attitude to conserve the carbon stocks we have in our nature, which Norway is very good at promoting internationally, also by supporting under a greater awareness of how to use landscapes to preserve the different carbon stocks. We also have to do this here in Norway. Then to the concrete proposals. As also pointed out by the Central Party, this is a majority in order to intensify the required requirements for impact assessments. Yes, it is also the case today that you can have impact assessments for peat extractions below 1,500 decaves, but here we want to have a tightening in order to have an absolute claim. So there's a lot of transparency for the government as to how this is going to be done. But the most important thing here is that we get a comprehensive plan for the ant management in Norway. On the left, we think it is a pity that we do not get a majority to see that whole in the context of the Action Plan on Natural Diversity. It is where it is natural to make a particularly thorough assessment of Norwegian ant management, to look at natural diversity, climate, protection and restoration, and not least at the phasing out of peat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e606	Does Elvesuen wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e610	I will, of course, address the proposal from the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e615	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e618	Imagine that you walk through the woods, and then suddenly the ants open – with a waving dune of ants, roaring orrhans, and a spanking pair of tears. It's beautiful! The ant is a fantastic ecosystem that without getting any kind of payment saves huge amounts of carbon, damps floods and cleanses water. The payment is first given to those who own the ant, if they destroy the ecosystems. There's a bunch of different plants there, mushrooms, insects and birds on and by the ant. Some live in the woods, but fly out on the ants and find food. The ant has amazing and fascinating bacteria that eat methane. It has lightning-fast eyelashes, and the peat moss has a very special structure that stores and filters water. This is the ant. What started this whole thing was torvuttaket at Jødahlsmåsan in Akershus, and the statement by State Secretary Lars Andreas Lunde was typical. He said something like, "We can't do anything to stop this, because we have a code that says this is okay. That's how a bureaucrat or politician speaks without ambition. This matter is reflected in the range of issues in which the Minister for the Environment, no apologies to the Minister for the Environment, surpasses the environmental advice. Once again, we are talking about an area where the Minister for the Environment has responsibility, and where the majority of the population force the Council of State to act on behalf of the environment because the Council of State itself is sitting quietly and without initiative. Let me give you one example of this: the Environment Directorate says in its report, the gap report – the one that says something about how much we have left, and how much we have to do to achieve Norway's climate target in 2020 – that we should leave more leeway, and that we can actually save 40 000 tonnes of CO2 in annual emissions. Nevertheless, the Minister for the Environment does nothing to ensure that this ant remains lying down. But it's now doing the mass mass, and I think the mass mass is good. Several things that have been in the same street are the Fördefjorden, which we have discussed before, where environmental advice is exceeded, we read in the weekend in the Nations that it opens up to having forest roads into some areas, and that one should also get tax exemptions for it – then it is used by the Forest Fund scheme for it. These are areas that lie far from nature intervention, and which it would have been good and important to take care of. The Minister of Agriculture is constantly making proposals to simplify the destruction of nature. It is quite in line with the ideology of the Progress Party, but it stands in stark contrast to what our Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, said before the elections: she said that the previous government did not do enough to take care of nature, and promised to do more itself. Well, that's the way that promise doesn't hold the prime minister. I am pleased that the Left has taken the initiative to raise this issue, and I would commend the Left, who is the proposer. I would also like to commend the job done by the case rapporteur to lead this forward and be able to get to the majority, and I would praise all those who have helped to ensure that we get the tightening up and the wise and sensible proposals that are now being addressed. I think it's nice to listen to the Right when they talk about the ant, but I'm worried that we can't see the corresponding action that would make it logical to follow up those words with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e641	The myrocosystems represent important values of biodiversity and have important functions such as carbon stocks for water treatment, water storage and flood suppression. In some cases they are also valuable in the context of open air. I agree that awareness of these values should be increased to ensure good management of the ants. But I believe that we also need to look at this issue in another important perspective – the need for Norwegian food production. All the political parties want to increase Norwegian food production. I used to be in the spring visiting the Vesterålen. There I learned that the only possibility for local farmers to grow new ones is to cultivate ants. In other words, too strict rules would deprive some farmers in District Norway of the opportunity to increase the production base on their farm. Climate effects related to mooring management are complex. It can be argued that the debate on the importance of ant management in a climate context has come out of proportion. For example, the draft representative and the position focus. a lot on new cultivation. The fact is that more than 99 pst. of the annual greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural areas come from previously cultivated areas. As my reply to the Stortinget points out, the departments concerned will deal with the issues raised, first and foremost through announcements of large-scale transactions. In the case of impact studies on peat extraction, this is regulated by the Law on Planning and Building. From 1 January 2015, the revised regulations came under the law, which also requires impact assessment for minor peat cutting if the measure can have significant effects on the environment and society. I therefore believe that the investigation requirement for peat cutting is well complied with in today's legislation. In spite of this, a majority of the Committee has agreed that impact assessments should also be required for all peat harvestings, not only those over 1500 deer. I am very pleased with the signals that came from the representative Arnstad, where she explained that this concerns major commercial business. It's going to be a challenge like this to define it, and I hear the government gets powers to look at it. I don't expect that from the Center Party's side is the intention to hit, among other things. farmers engaged in this as an additional activity and who are engaged in small activities. Issues relating to protection, ecosystem services, natural diversity values and climate impacts, etc. related to bogs and wetlands will be addressed during work on the Communication of the Action Plan for Natural Diversity, headed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I would also like to agree with the Committee that one should think again about the use of peat in soil products. There is a safe opportunity here to develop good and more environmentally friendly alternatives to peat. But I would also like to support the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party in ensuring that one does not end up importing products with a higher carbon footprint. Furthermore, a majority of the Committee calls for a rapid revision of the sustainability regulation to the Forest Act, so that the Countess is allowed only on areas where productive forest is established and that the Countess does not conflict with important natural values. In earlier times, ants and wetlands were buried in order to produce forests — this is no longer permitted. The word «gross» simply means to re-open ditching systems that have re-grown or re-sealed together. A forest owner will hardly spend money cleaning up ditches in areas where no forest has come up. Of course, the government will follow up the proposal of a majority in the Grand Duchy. And I am pleased that a majority want the issue addressed in this proposal to be dealt with essentially in the context of the announcements on biodiversity, agriculture and forests, for there are several considerations to consider, and then it is important to see it in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e667	The draft resolution I asks the government to revise the new cultivation regulation as soon as possible and to ensure that the regulation imposes requirements for the assessment of climate considerations. This has been proposed because it has been documented that it is stored more than three billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent in Norwegian bogs. The Council of State agrees to point out that the previous government was involved in the problem of a big message, but without following up, and says, ‘I assume that this work will be followed up’. The Government Parties did not enter into the I of the Decision into the Committee. Is it the word «rapidly possible» that is a problem for the Council of State, as the Council of State expresses her wish to follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e675	We've clearly said here that we should follow it up, and we follow it up as soon as it's proper to do it. It is a work to be done in connection with it. As I am familiar with it, the previous government sent this out to the hearing. There were a number of recordings in that connection, and you chose to put it away. We have said that we should take this up again and follow it up further to ensure that climate considerations are safeguarded in the new culture regulation that will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e680	A good deal of ants in Norway have been cultivated. It has been grown for many years, and there are some who believe that seas of ants have been changed through cultivation and cultivation for many years, it can regain its original biological role if humans take action to do so. Does the Council agree with such an attempt on professional grounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e685	These are questions that we should get back to in different size reports, where we should, among other things. shall look at the restoration of ants. What is absolutely certain is that part of the soil we have in Norway and grow and use for agricultural production is important for us also to take care of in the future. It is, as I know, about 500,000 deacons that are grown from ants, and are now part of the production base of Norwegian farmers. Of course, this is also important in the future. It's related to being a country where 3 pst. the area is cultivated and used for food production. Per capita we are relatively well located, but when I see the sum of 3 pst. of the country's area, it is relatively modest. It is also important that we ensure the areas necessary for the production of Norwegian food.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e690	As many people have experienced, ants are the result of hundreds of years — probably thousands of years — of activity based on special geological and climatic conditions. It is then a little special if one believes that such areas, which have been fundamentally altered by a great influence on people – through digging and through fertilisation and everything – can be restored to a state that was the result of a hundred years. Where is the scientific basis for such performances, which have emerged in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e695	They almost have to answer that, the ones who have brought it out. What I'm concerned about is going to go into these issues thoroughly when we're going to make the big messages in the agricultural field, where we're just going to look at the possibility of restoring bogs – whether that's what we want to do, and whether it's possible from a professional point of view. But I am not prepared to respond to that here and now. We're going to spend some time going through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e701	I support a proposal that the primary responsibility for the reassessment of the management of ants should be managed by the Ministry of Climate and the Environment and, above all, should be included in the natural diversity action plans. That's where you have the ability to look at the whole thing. But the Council of State points out that, in the whole of the Council of State, it is important to include two other departments, and that is the outcome of the investigation that will ultimately have meaning. The question then arises: does the Council of State agree that there is a need for legislation to put an end to the loss of ant areas in Norway as close as possible today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e706	I think it's important to consider different considerations. As I was inside in my post, I was visiting farmers in the West Pole, who told me that locally there they have one opportunity to expand their production base, and that's growing ants. To deprive them of the opportunity to do that I would not say without saying is positive. Then we also know that ants have an important function, and therefore I believe that different considerations have to be weighed in the different cases. In many places it'll be the right thing to do. Policies are about balancing different considerations. We want to increase food production in this room. We also want to take care of ants. Then I think finding a good balance is the most important thing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e713	To balance the different considerations, it can also be seen to a large extent as if one continues to carry on with the same balances as one has today, while what this debate has shown today is that there is a broad majority in favour of greater attention being paid to ants and the management of ants. You also need to look at ants in terms of biodiversity, but also what is in a climate perspective, which we also specify internationally, where we work a lot on the same issues. Then my question becomes to the Council of State when things have to be balanced: Does the Council of State feel that there is a need for a policy change to better care for ant areas in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e718	I think it is going to be wrong that I should stand here and present what I want to send in a big message that comes later. It's not like I've concluded on the points that apply to this either. There is also something that the parties in the government will of course have the opportunity to discuss. But I think it is a healthy principle that you always have to remember that there are several reasons to care for. It is also in this case. We have different goals. Sometimes we meet ourselves a little bit in the door, because one goal can make it harder to achieve the other goal. This is the way balances are going to have to be taken all the time. But I'm going to promise the representative Elvesuen to come back to these questions in the announcements, and then we'll get to take the discussion further from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e723	In this case, the government parties will not vote in favour of more good proposals to provide better protection for the ants in Norway, and among others. the Minister of Agriculture argues for the continued re-growth of bogs. At the same time, we know what the climate consequences are of destroying ants. There are one-off emissions, irreversible emissions, of large amounts of carbon. There needs to be a look at the discussion we have at the same time, how many arguments are strong in order to include forestry as an anti-emission measure in the Norwegian climate accounts. If you're going to include forests in the accounts, but you don't include ants in the accounts, you're making a deep, unknowing mistake. And the question to the Minister of Agriculture is, can she confirm that the carbon account for ants and the management of ants will also be included in the assessment of the entire Norwegian carbon account?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e728	These are questions that will be addressed in the big messages that we will come back to. What we know is that in the case of agricultural land, they represent almost 4 pst. of the total Norwegian emissions. Innovation contributes by less than 1 pst. of this. We also know that the forest in Norway binds approx. 60 pst. of the emissions that we have in our society. So the forest is important. Of course, it's also emissions from ants. These are things that we have to weigh and get back to in the big messages that we have announced later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e733	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e738	The ants in Norway have been used by farmers and others for hundreds of years, and the knowledge of the different characteristics of the ants has led to some sort of classification. The first one we know that published a classification system in Norway for ants was Peter C. Asbjørnsen in 1856 and 1868. Asbjørnsen's ant system was followed up and changed, as by Aasulv Løddensøl in 1948, the ants in the business service. Today, a large part of the grass bogs are still an important resource through the outcrop. It's a long and proud story about the use of ants. We got the Norwegian ant company, which was founded on 11 December 1902, which was intended to “repay the ants of the country”. New Earth became from 1915 the name of the organization that worked most for the construction of uncultivated land. Until the mid-1930s, the company had provided state subsidies to over 10,000 construction sites, and it had grown over 180,000 covered land. In 1966, the State Council for the Conservation of Nature went in to draw up a country plan for ant reserves in Norway. In this regard, the President of the Council, Professor Olav Gärevoll, outlined a country plan objective: ‘The ants are an important part of the Norwegian landscape everywhere. The composition of the ant vegetation varies according to altitude, geographical location and geological background. A land plan for ant reserves must therefore aim at catching as many ant types as possible across the country.’ The protective plan work started in 1969, and in South Norway it was the Scientific Museum in Trondheim at Professor Asbjørn Moen who had the professional responsibility for the stately plans. The protection planning process in the counties has been going on for 40 years, and only Finnmark remains. The main protection criteria have been representativeness and interesting ecosystems. The protection plan for ants was probably the best implemented and most comprehensive of all thematic protection plans for different habitat types in Norway and was fully implemented in accordance with scientific principles. Of course, some supplements may be needed, in particular for lowland rich ants, but it is far more important to give priority to other habitat types that have not been similarly protected. Protection under the Nature Diversity Act shall be strict and have a clear purpose. This shall be professionally based protection – based on scientific principles – and guided by strict criteria and priorities. Creating protected areas is, in principle, taking areas out of production. These areas shall be the jewels of Norwegian nature. That's why we need to protect no more than we can take care of. In 2006, the National Audit Office presented its report on the National Audit Office’s work on the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity and the management of protected areas. What came out there was: ‘The Court of Auditors cannot see that this ambition has been achieved for the work of the authorities in the two audited areas.’ Therefore, the conclusion is that it is more appropriate to implement the points made by the National Audit Office’s report than to start a new protection plan for ants. That is also the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e763	The overall responsibility we have in this case is that we have to manage our natural areas so that they also bind more carbon, just like everyone else has to do it that way. Ant is a central nature type that we have to manage in a good way to preserve the carbon that is stored, and also to bind more. So there are rare natural habitat types in ants. There are eleven of these on the Red List, and there is an independent need to care for several ant areas, both because of biodiversity and rare habitat types. But then this is both about climate adaptation and climate action to avoid increased carbon emissions, and there are large numbers that are involved. It was mentioned earlier by the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, especially a proposal we have here about Jødahlsmåsan, which unfortunately we do not get a majority for stopping the withdrawal. In Jødahlsmåsan, 293 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent are stored, and when we know that the annual emissions in Oslo are approx. 1.3 million tonnes, this is a large emission. One shall have many concrete climate action to avoid emissions as high as they are mentioned here. That this goes through under the legislation that we have today, without a greater assessment, I think it has to end now. And when we want to change the requirements for when you have to have impact assessment, it's of course to get fewer of these kinds of withdrawals in the years to come. The exact use of the instrument of impact assessment will help to produce all the consequences, so that this does not happen in the future. So this is about tightening up as well. This is an area where we think it is necessary not just to follow a simplification. There is a need for a procedure to ensure that all elements are included, including the climate impact of the outflows. And then it's true that what's from the majority of the committee is a tightening. Not all withdrawals are included in the proposal. It's a tightening up, as it's now the government's responsibility to implement. Otherwise, during the debate, I have become even more convinced that it would be right that the whole of this was looked at by the Minister for Climate and Environment through the Action Plan for Nature Diversity. I have to say that I am not reassured by the comments of the Minister of Agriculture, because this is about the fact that, despite the debate, one does not see a direction where one needs a tightening, but one does the same balances that have been underpinned in the past. It will not be enough to care for the ants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e777	This case is a very typical example of a good proposal, in this case from the Left, trying to lift an element and a function in Norwegian nature into a more forward-looking assessment of the instruments we need to take care of Norwegian nature, and what instruments we need to use, and which are important, in order to cope with the Norwegian climate work. In Norwegian terms, the ants have been treated primarily as a resource that can be used for different things and that has had very low value — if any — considered as nature value, as ecosystem value and, above all, as climate value. It is therefore absolutely necessary, as the representative of Elvesuen and several others have pointed out, that we are now promised the management of ants in an overall perspective, where we see these values together, and where we are not least taking into account the climate value of these ants. Therefore, on the basis of the clear knowledge base, it is quite reassuring to hear an agricultural minister who cannot answer clearly whether or not to take the ants, which are therefore the largest carbon stocks, next to forests, in Norwegian continental nature, into the Norwegian climate accounts. Because you don't, the whole discussion about a Norwegian climate accounting, where you look at the natural processes, becomes completely meaningless. And it shouldn't be a problem for the government to be able to confirm it now – especially not a government that adorns itself with a «knowledge-based» word. Finally, because I have become so used to being reminded by the President of proposals I should have mentioned, but not addressing, I would like to raise proposal No. 3 by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e788	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to. It shows that it's possible to teach everyone to remember it!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e792	The center party is very interested in an overall perspective. For example, a comprehensive perspective needs to be developed. build on two pillars: the scientific basis on species and habitat types – we need to be clear – and the climate perspective, where photosynthesis is also included – where photosynthesis is also included. But first to the need to start a new protection plan for ants. That there is no need for that, I would like to illustrate with a small point: Aurstadmåsan, mentioned in the proposal, is a nature reserve that was established as early as 1981. Asbjørn Moen’s 1976 report states: ‘The northern element of Aurstadmosan and the northern part of Grenimosan appears to represent the finest remaining concentric hay ants in Norway today. Aurstadmosan is somewhat influenced by that ditch, but despite this being most protective. This is because of it. the fine design.» The restoration of this ant started only in 2015, 34 years later, on behalf of the Ministry of Climate and Environment – which wants to restore ants, so that it will both be a good climate action and improve the ecological status of the sites being restored. Here we see the need to do the job for what are already nature reserves. The setting reads as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, further believe that cultivated large-scale peat marshes that can continue to be cultivated for a long time in the future, should be considered restored back to the ants when the earth needs new burial’. This proposal would have dramatic consequences if it had been adopted. Who thinks it's possible to restore a full-grown ant back to a functioning ecosystem? Ants are defined as a land area with peat and vegetation of moisturizing and/or moisture-tolerating plants that, through incomplete degradation, form and accumulate new peat. You can always discuss whether it was right to turn all these ant regions into full-grown land in their time, and several of the most protective and representative ant types were lost in the 1970s, but when the ant areas are converted to full-grown land, it's too late. Frostadheia on Smøla is a community of cages with 36 construction sites built between 1930 and 1983. Here's 42 pst. of the full-grown land of the municipality of Smøla. It's used in a good way. A wall museum was established in 1995, with then rapporteur Iver Nordseth from the Left in the head. I had hoped that Nordseth could experience this debate and make his suggestions on what is happening. The regulations about this are good today. What's important is that we get a protection based on science and once again a respect for photosynthesis, because an active photosynthesis is what captures CO2, and it should soon take over the representatives of the majority parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e820	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e834	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e843	When I was little, my father took me on a Sunday tour and showed me the lure over Bergen. The toxin over the Bergen, large, falsified and yellow, lay there on cold winter days. The lid is still there and spreads poor health for all the inhabitants of Bergen. Now I live in Oslo, and I'm going to take my daughter with me to show her the lid over Oslo, because despite the fact that it's in Bergen the attention around the cap over the city is the largest, it's in Oslo that the health effects are the greatest. Svestöv is a big problem. Local air pollution of particulate matter and NOx, which are nitrogen oxides, is harmful to health. Toxic urban air can give us respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Especially vulnerable groups are children, diabetics, obese people and people with poor advice. People with allergies, asthma and respiratory disorders get extra health problems. Heart disease people get sicker and may die prematurely. In a large European study, there is a link between pneumonia in children and long-term air pollution. There is also a link between air pollution and low birth weight in children. The Environment Directorate estimates that about 1,500 people die each year in Norway because of air pollution. There are many more people who suffer extra health problems. In short, it's like, people get sick from air pollution, sick get sicker, and those who are sicker die from air pollution. The emissions derived from nitrogen oxides are particularly those from diesel cars. Heavy, especially older, vehicles are large emission sources. Emissions from boats in ports also contribute, and emissions of suspended particulate matter are due in particular to road wear due to heavy-duty tyres and from refurbishment in old furnaces. In some places emissions from industry are a problem. There is no safe lower limit for particulate matter, and the health authorities have therefore recommended that the limits be increased. I am pleased that the presentation of this proposal by the Greens and the work we have done in the Committee has led to two positive things. Initially, the new air quality criteria, i.e. criteria for safe air, came after recommendations in a report prepared by the Public Health Institute and the Environment Directorate on the basis of a work started by the Red-Green Government. One year and 83 days the Environment Minister received a letter from the Environment Directorate, where the Environment Directorate, the Public Health Institute, the Health Directorate and the State Road Service called for an alarm and recommended that something be done with the limits of what was dangerous air, because the limits were too high, until the alarm was triggered. It does not testify to an environmental minister who takes this seriously. I am pleased that there will be a tightening from 2016. It should have come in 2015, but it comes from 2016, and it is a good thing that this proposal and the consideration of the Committee have led to. The second thing that's good is that there's a majority proposal that says very clearly: ‘The government is asked to present a case for the Storting with measures to reduce particulate matter and other air pollution to new limit values and further to a safe level — in line with the Environment DG’s recommendations for national targets in letter of 28 February 2014. The measures must be drawn up in close cooperation with the relevant municipalities.’» I'm glad we're getting a majority for this. That is right against the votes of the government parties. I believe that it is incomprehensible in the situation we are in, where the Environment Directorate has recommended new national targets that we should pursue and which they recommend should be used, that the Environment Minister says that this is not going to be followed up in the new requirements and regulations that lie there, and that means that instead of keeping old targets from 1999. I am delighted with the debate and I am pleased to hear the reasons for the passivity of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e866	First thanks to Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås for what I thought was a good post, and that he has led this matter until today we get the decisions we make. But this matter has also led to, as Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås mentioned in his post, that the government has changed its position. Air quality is a major societal problem. Globally, it is one of the most important environmental challenges we face. In many cities in the world, it is directly dangerous to be out on a few days of the year. But also here in Norway air quality is a major public health problem. There has been a lot of attention around the worst days, days where we know that there are groups that are warned against going out, but the most dangerous thing is the long-term effects – what makes the air we breathe in every single day, makes us have health problems. It is particularly serious that it is those groups that really need the protection of the community – children and people with health problems – that are being affected, and we also know that the areas hit are the areas where most people live. This is not an acceptable situation. We know a lot about what we can do about it, and therefore more action is needed to ensure that our citizens breathe clean and safe air. Here the Storting has shown great impatience during this period. There have been several initiatives. But in common with them all is that they have been promoted by the opposition, and the majority in some of the cases have been against the Right and Advance Party's votes. It is striking where the activism of the government parties has been, and that we can hardly see a single initiative on this important environmental and health issue. The previous government started a work to see if the values of particulate matter were low enough, and what we could possibly do to get lower levels. On 28 February 2014, the report was published. It was a unique report, in which the Directorate-General for the Environment, in cooperation with the Directorate-General for the Environment, the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate-General for Health, proposed new limit values, the first with effect from this year – so we are already in deficit – and then with new values again from 2018. This report has remained on the Minister's desk for over a year, without it being traded. It is a mystery to me why nothing has happened to such unambiguous professional advice. That's why it was good that the Green Party took this case to the Stortinget – when the government would not act, it would be decided by the opposition. That is why it is good that the Minister wrote to the Committee that she would now adjust the limit values in line with stage 1 of the recommendation, and there is good reason to believe that this decision is coming right now because there is a proposal from the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European So the Green Party deserves all praise for having promoted this case and thus led the government parties to act. But the government parties have only chosen to go in for the first down-alignment and not fully followed the recommendation. The Labour Party believes that we should already determine where we should – both because of the history of this case and the action that the government has shown – because if we are to downgrade in just two years, we have to start equiping ourselves for it already now, start planning all the necessary measures. We have little time to lose. We have to implement what we know works. Through this case we have got the government a bit on the way. We wanted the bulk of the population to be with us all the way to put the necessary pressure on the government for further efforts. But if we can't figure out the course all the way out today, it's become a majority of all parties, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, asking for a separate case to get all the measures that need to be taken to give the people a good air to breathe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e885	The background to the proposal for a representative we are considering today is the report on limit values and national targets, which was presented by the Environment Directorate, the Directorate for Roads, the Directorate for Health and the Institute for Public Health in February 2014. In Norway today we have three management targets for local air quality. Firstly, we have the legally binding limit values which comply with the EU Air Quality Directive and which are the background for Norway's filing before the EFTA Court. Secondly, we have national health and environmental targets, for particulate matter and NO2. These are more stringent than the limit values and indicate a national level of ambition. And finally, we have air quality criteria, based on knowledge of health effects, which are set in such a way as not to have a negative effect on health, and which are, in turn, stricter than the national targets. There is no doubt that air pollution affects people's health in a negative way. Even I remember well from my youth the pictures from Tokyo, where the inhabitants walked around with mouthbands – a totally unimaginable thought – and I was very happy that I lived in pure Norway at the time. Now reports and research show that we are also affected by pollution to a greater extent than previously assumed, and that we all have a common responsibility to do something about it. Contaminated urban air can cause many plagues, and particularly vulnerable and vulnerable groups are the hardest hit. Here we talk about people with allergies, asthma, respiratory and cardiac disorders, and that affects, among other things. children, diabetics and overweight. I was therefore very pleased when the government announced that it would shortly send a consultation proposal to introduce new limit values for particulate matter from 1 January 2016. The new limit values will be in line with the recommendations in the previous report, which was once again based on a 2013 report from the Public Health Institute. In addition, the government has launched several processes to help municipalities do even more than today to improve air quality in cities. Legal work has been started to allow municipalities both to set up low-emission zones and to provide a legal basis for applying low- or zero-emission technology to the taxi industry. Looking at the further development of a common road charging system and at providing technical and legal opportunities for environmental differentiation through the AutoPASS system, it will be assessed whether it can be facilitated for free public transport on days of high local air pollution In other words, the government is laying down a considerable amount of work in this area, which will continuously give municipalities more tools. Local authorities and site owners need guidance and assistance to improve local air quality and to implement notified instruments. Many of the proposals that are now being worked on have come into close and close cooperation between the government and our two cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Furthermore, the Minister for Climate and Environment has also announced that the limit values for suspended particulate matter applicable from 2020 will be assessed on the basis of an updated knowledge base for 2018, fully in line with the recommendations set out in the report on limit values and national targets. I record that several parties, along with the Left, want to set these goals already today with today's knowledge and then wait for updated knowledge in 2018. Right is a knowledge party, and I find it a little bit difficult to understand the point with that. As long as we talk about limit values that will apply in five years, it would probably be an advantage with the best possible knowledge when they are finally set. In this way, it will be easy to set temporary limit values today to be replaced by new knowledge-based values in three years' time and to enter into force in five years' time. Finally, a proposal for a decision asking the Government to come back with measures to reduce particulate matter and other air pollution to new limit values, which are likely to have a majority in the Chamber today. I have previously listed many of the measures already undertaken by the government in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, and we in the Right are pleased with the work that is now being done in the field of air pollution. It is important to bear in mind that the municipalities are the pollution authorities and are required to provide for measures to ensure that they comply with the applicable limit values at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e909	The government has already put forward a work in which the limit values will be in line with the recommendations in the report Borders and National Targets, developed by the Directorate for the Environment in cooperation with the Directorate for Roads, the Directorate for Health and, in particular, the Institute for Public Health. The government has already come much further in this work in less than two years than the previous government has done over eight years, and then with SV as the head of the Department and the Environment Directorate. I understand that this plagues the representative Holmås, but it is a fact that this is the case. Nor is it the case that diseases and deaths related to particulate matter occurred in 2013. Both diseases and deaths were equally present from 2005 to 2013. We also know which government went out and recommended the Norwegian people to buy diesel cars. It wasn't this government -- it was the previous one. It should be brought with the representative Holmås. It is essential that municipalities have sufficient room for action in this work. It is also essential that municipalities have the power to establish low-emission zones as one of many other measures that, in total, will result in lower emissions of particulate matter. It's a paradox that cities like Bergen and Oslo, which have been run by the blues over a long, long time, will have far less challenges to adapt to the new requirements that come, than, for example, Trondheim, who has been run by the red-greens for a long, long time. It seems that those who shout loudest have a very bad conscience with them in their luggage. You can only wonder why you did not use the occasion when you were in government from 2005 to 2013. I have to say that regardless of whether you take a walk in Oslo or in another city, there is not much imagination to understand that much of the health problem and the challenges of particulate matter for the future lies in how you plan and implement changes at a municipal level that expose the population to much less particulate matter than what is being done today. You don't have to go far to find kindergartens after kindergartens and kindergartens like the closest neighbours to the heaviest roads in the central areas. I know this is a challenge, and I know that this will mean a lot of costs, but it's that we're going to succeed, it's the totality of the different measures that will be crucial to getting us down the suspended dust, and that we're getting a population that isn't exposed to the extent that you're going to be today. In that case, both the State and the municipalities and cities must be involved and participate actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e918	The health risk of particulate matter is extensive and air quality is a subject which fortunately is subject to increased attention, research and political action. It is therefore very positive that the representative Bastholm has challenged us in the progress of the work on new limit values for particulate matter. In February 2014, the Environment Directorate issued a recommendation on significant reductions in the limit values and national targets for particulate matter in Norwegian municipalities. So months have gone by, and it was timely to press the government in this matter. For the Christian People's Party, however, we have chosen to be satisfied that this matter has now been abandoned by the Minister for Climate and Environment. We are pleased with the progress she has outlined in her letter to the Committee on 22 May. It was time, and it was too late, but it was priceless that it came, even after pressure. On that basis, and as we can see from the comments we are part of, we accept the progress that the Council of State has made. However, we believe that it is essential that the Stortinget continues to keep the pressure on this matter, and support the Committee's recommendation to III, where a request to get a case to the Stortinget on this matter. It is particularly stressed that cooperation with municipalities is important. In order to address this health problem, municipalities must be actively involved, both in planning and in measures. We trust that the government will find an appropriate way to address this point of decision. The Christian People's Party will vote against the recommendation I and II and for III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e927	This is an important issue we are discussing today. As several speakers have pointed out, air pollution in general and particulate matter in particular contribute to major health problems and are probably also contributing to many deaths, especially in the major cities, in a year. Other speakers, and not least the rapporteur-in-Office, have been concerned with the types of problems involved, health and the environment. I feel that everyone in the hall, really, is concerned about the issue. The question is where the road will continue. How rapidly should the new MRLs be set, which are professionally recommended? And to what extent should one have to present an action plan and a case for the Storting? The centre party is part of the majority who want us to put in place tightened limit values already now, and who believe that it is not necessary to wait until 2018. There is no contradiction between updating knowledge in 2018 and setting limit values now. It is seaworthy to be able to either further tighten the limit values in 2018 or adjust them in line with the knowledge base at that time. In line with the comments, the Centre Party is behind III, the proposal to present a case to the Stortinget on measures against particulate matter. It does not come out of the recommendation that the Central Party is behind that proposal, but we do, so for the sake of order, I think there is reason to inform you about it. Hopefully that majority will also be able to have a majority in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e938	Local pollution in major cities is a significant health problem, which, given both long-term pollution and the most polluted days, leads to premature death. It's serious. In a situation where cities are growing – it is a wish that we should continue in the central parts of cities, and that we should have a varied population, with several families with children in the central parts – we have a responsibility both locally and nationally to ensure that we have a pollution situation that is not harmful to health. A considerable amount of work needs to be done here, and it needs to be done now. So it's right, as mentioned earlier, that there is no lower limit that can be considered safe, healthful. But we still have to have goals. It is necessary to have limit values that reduce the risk and reduce the pollution. That is why we in the Left are pleased that the Council of State has now taken an initiative to lower the limit values from 2016. However, we see no contradiction between that and what we are doing in this matter, to present proposals for decisions on tightening up by 2020, in line with what has been recommended by the Environment Directorate, in cooperation with others. Nor do we see any problem with having this objective at the same time as you do your own professional assessment in 2018. All these assessments must be based on the knowledge available at all times. What is important about setting targets is related to the proposal for Decision III, which, at least for the Left, is most important that we have a majority in favour of today, namely that the government is required to present a case, that we are given an action plan where the State assumes an independent responsibility for implementing measures to reduce pollution, in cooperation with the municipalities. That's what's necessary to achieve the goals we have. The measures referred to here, which the government is working on, are measures that have been taken on the initiative – not least in the form of Document 8 proposals – from the Left earlier this winter, namely working to obtain a low-carbon zone. That's good. The possibility of setting zero-emission requirements or environmental requirements in the taxi industry is provided locally. That's good. It also looks at the possibility of providing greater flexibility for tightening up — or using the bombing to promote environmentally friendly behaviour. What is quite clear is that the sum of these measures is not enough to achieve the objectives, either with the limit values we set now or with those that need to be there in the future. It must be far more effective. In the case of acute pollution, it is necessary to consider both the reversion routes for heavy goods vehicles and the prohibition of diesel vehicles in order to avoid the most polluting days. If this is to be avoided, the general air pollution from heavy transport and diesel vehicles must be drastically reduced. This change cannot be done by the municipalities themselves. With experience from Oslo – both as a City Council and as a local government representative for over ten years – I have seen a city that has been very active to reduce its own local air pollution. This is particularly true for particulate matter, but also for reducing long-term greenhouse gas emissions and its impact on local pollution. This, however, cannot be done by the municipalities themselves, nor by the additional means that they receive from the state, if you do not have a state that works equally systematically with its entire instrument, whether it is taxes or taxes, with its entire system of how you can use the state activity – the responsibility that you have here – in cooperation with the municipalities. Finally, this proposal for a decision makes it clear that the State has a responsibility and that it needs to work with the municipalities in order to have an action plan that has a strength in relation to the objectives to be achieved and that it is not just a collection of further actions that will not in itself be enough to achieve the objectives. This proposal provides the basis for finally taking decisions that will allow us to actually do something basic to improve air pollution in the major cities of Norway by 2020, before these objectives are achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e959	First of all, thanks to case rapporteur Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås for a very good work on this matter, which has led to two good results – both reduced limit values for particulate matter in cities from 2016 and thus a recommendation to the government to come back with proposals for further reduced limit values. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the Council of State for having responded to the challenge and followed up at least one part of the proposal, so that we get lower limit values for particulate matter as of 1 January 2016. This means that people living in big cities have less to fear a new winter when air pollution destroys health, force children to stay inside and even lead to death, that is, people in cities can look forward to a better quality of life, which is not destroyed by pollution. This case is also a very pleasant example of how the weight of research and the weight of knowledge, when used politically, makes progress for people in everyday life. We in the Greens are, of course, very pleased that our proposal gets this result, a proposal that was promoted by my Vice-President Une Bastholm in her more or less debut as a proposal promoter, so it was an unusually good start! This is a good day for people who are plagued by bad air in Norwegian cities, but it is also a good day to use environmental policies to promote development, because there are few things that are so old-fashioned and tragic as to believe that slowing down environmental measures is progressable. And I have to say that I'm quite startled at the extent to which the current government is doing just this – seeing it as a good policy to make it easier to intervene in nature, seeing it as a good policy to open existing areas of protection for intervention, it looks like a good policy to release motorised traffic in nature, and that is to say, it sees it as a good policy to slow down the entirely obvious and professionally recommended limit values for pollution that harm people's health. The situation is quite the opposite: it is by using knowledge and taking new measures not only to promote quality of life and the environment and deliver on its own environmental promises, but it is also in the way that it is designed to enable cities – in this case – to apply the instruments that both meet air quality requirements and promote a better urban environment, better urban planning and better technologies in all possible other areas. This is what we are able to do here in the Great Britain by laying down the framework for a great deal of progress that urban politicians can make in many areas. That is how you need to understand this kind of knowledge and this kind of action that we are discussing today. And this is also an example of something that will have to make us even more questionable about the idea that cities should be based on cars, even more questionable about the idea that cities should be asphalt deserts and not green lungs, and even more so about the notion that old-fashioned technologies should survive just because we're used to them. But we are pleased with the support that a large minority of the Storting also provides to change the limit values in 2020, and we now expect, with the political signal – which is so strong and clear – and the indications, at least, that come from the government, we also get in the government's alert review of the knowledge base for 2018 actually lowered the limit values to safe levels in 2020. And if we do, then we're going to add up to a policy where we're dealing, in advance, with expected research and thus can drive the policy forward, instead of slowing progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e976	It is well documented that poor air quality in cities has negative health consequences for people living and staying there. Diseases both trigger and worsen. This applies in particular to respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, but studies show that air pollution can also affect the nervous system and diseases such as diabetes. Despite the overall improvement in air quality in Norway over the last decades, several Norwegian cities have continued to exceed the current air quality limit values, particularly for levels of NO2. As the representative refers to, this is a problem which ESA is also concerned with, and in the light of previous year’s exceedances of the limit values, Norway has filed an appeal before the EFTA Court for breach of the Air Quality Directive. In order to further strengthen efforts to improve local air quality and to contribute to the protection of public health, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health and Welfare and their respective Directorates and Institutes have undertaken to assess the need to further tighten local air quality limit values in 2011. Such intensification will also serve as an incentive for municipalities and site owners in their efforts to reduce emissions. In response to the mission, last February, as known to the Directorates, recommended tightening the maximum levels for particulate matter in the pollution regulation. In the light of these recommendations, the government has recently decided to intensify the maximum levels for particulate matter from 20l6. It has also been decided that an additional intensification should be assessed from 2020, based on an updated knowledge base to be developed in 2018. Such progressive tightening of the limit values gives municipalities a clear signal that the process of tightening up the limit values will continue beyond 2016, while at the same time an opportunity to take into account both new knowledge and technology in this area. Such progressive tightening also allows municipalities to plan and implement measures, based on what is actually and practically feasible. I am recording that Stortinget wants to follow up the recommendations made by the four directorates in 2014. I believe it would have been wise to expect the setting of limit values for 2020 until after the knowledge base is updated in 2018. However, I will follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget, but this must, as always, be done within the formal framework set for legislative changes for hearings, etc. The progressive tightening of the threshold levels for particulate matter needs to be seen in the context of ongoing urban work on the revision of the air quality action plans and the substantial efforts of the government to facilitate further action in this area. The government has, among other things: legal work to facilitate low-emission zones and to be able to set emission requirements for the allocation of taxi licences. It is also working to assess the practical and legal aspects of environmental differentiation of tolls through the AutoPASS system. It is essential now to set up a good urban toolbox and to have effective and adapted urban action taken. Cities have to decide what concrete measures they want to take on the basis of local circumstances. I have a clear ambition and a goal that the air quality in Norwegian municipalities should be safe for everyone. As I said, I note that the Storting wants to change the national targets for particulate matter in line with the recommendations of the four directorates. I'm going to take care of this, and I'm glad we're now moving on with the work to improve local air quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1001	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1004	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report. I think she well described why it's so important to do something about air quality, and what serious consequences it has that you don't follow up. She also described in a good way why the previous government started this work of looking at the values of particulate matter. Then the report came to the Council of State, but it came over a year ago, and we are already in deficit today with the follow-up to the report. It is incomprehensible to me why such unambiguous technical advice has remained on the table of the Council of State for so long – at least with the serious consequences, as the Council of State itself describes, that we are not doing anything for air quality. The Prime Minister was in the Questionnaire two weeks ago. Then she replied that the reason this took a long time was that you did not know exactly what measures to take. But the report describes what I'm assuming the Council of State is well-known. That is why my question to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is why it has taken so long – that we are already in arrears with the follow-up to this report, which she has been in for over a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1013	For the government, it has been desirable to see work on limit values related to the ongoing follow-up to ESA's case against Norway. It is a matter of this government inherited from the previous government. We've discussed it many times in Stortinget, we've had many good discussions about developing new tools. We wanted to see the two issues in the context, and it is not unusual that it may take some time to deal with a somewhat complicated matter in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1018	In its contribution, the Council of State mentioned ongoing efforts to authorise environmental requirements for the taxi industry, the introduction of low-emission zones and the environmental differentiation of tolls. The three instruments will not be enough to achieve the objectives she sets, or to achieve what is necessary to reduce emissions in major cities. It shows the need to adopt the proposal for III of the vote, otherwise you will have to have a mandate for the government to work with the municipalities in order to have a necessary instrument. Then my question is: is the Council of State willing to look at the instruments that are necessary and that are proportionate to the tasks we are facing, namely reducing emissions to the objectives we are now pursuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1027	As we have discussed several times before in this room when we talked about air quality, it is the municipalities that are the pollution authority and are responsible for ensuring that the necessary measures are taken. However, it is also the task of the State to provide the municipalities with sufficient tools in the toolbox to ensure that this is done. It is important that the municipalities themselves choose which tools they want to use. Now the government has said that we want to set new limit values, which is quite the leader of what municipalities, plant owners and the state have to do to get this in place. We have, as the representative of Elvesuen said, raised in the second issue of air quality, more on this matter, and the report is quite clear on what should be done to reach the limits laid down by the government, and what the Storting further tightens up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1032	Then my question becomes even more specific: is the Council of State willing to propose the two things, namely, the reversion of heavy goods vehicles and the ban on diesel cars in the most busy days, as well as low-carbon zones, which we know are necessary to reduce emissions in the most polluted days? – Then the municipalities have to choose whether to use it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1037	Now, the transport authorities have been given a mandate to ban diesel cars, and whether this can be achieved, to see if there are significant passenger cars outside the business sector that may be important for the first time. Several of these matters are for investigation, and we are now asked – as we shall do – to come back to the Storting with a new case, so that what the Storing has now decided, and what the government has said, is taken care of. I think it's important that we make what is currently available in the Municipal Toolbox. Then we need to see if this is enough in the light of the new limit values – and also for the current issue we have with ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1044	Governments say she's busy with up-to-date knowledge. In this document, which is the State budget, the State Council's own document, is the national air quality target, and it is about exceedances at the daily average level, i.e. short-term exceedances. The objectives of the State budget are 1999 criteria. The letter from the Directorate for the Environment, which is based on knowledge from 2013 states: ‘The national objective is to ensure an air quality that is safe for all. The current national targets as they are now formulated focus on short-term averaged levels, while the main health effects are assumed to be related to longer-term exposure.» Therefore, the new national targets are proposed. These national targets reject the State Councils. Why will the Council of State not have national targets based on the Technical Recommendations of the Environment Directorate, but will have doubts about 1999 targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1056	We have thought that the most important thing we can do is tighten the limit value and set a legally binding new limit value, but the ambition in the long term is clear that the air quality in Norwegian municipalities should be safe for everyone. That's the goal we're working on. That's why we want close cooperation with the municipalities to give the municipalities the tools they themselves need to take care of it. For us, it is important to have municipalities on the team, where they choose the tools they want to use. The goal is quite clear, but the most important thing we can do now is tighten the limit value. That's why it was the government that now went in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1061	I do not feel that I get an answer to the question. It is okay that the Council of State considers the most important thing to come up with new limit values, and it is good that those limit values come from 2016. But if next year's government budget is to be based on national targets, and we choose to stick to the 1999 national targets that the Environment Directorate, the Health Directorate, the State Road Agency and the Public Health Institute say are out of date, why do we choose to ignore the knowledge about what to manage, and instead rely on out-of-date targets from 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1066	We don't ignore new knowledge. There is just a new knowledge of how dangerous air is for health, which means that the whole Storing and Government are concerned with improving air quality. The goal is quite clear to everyone: the air quality in Norwegian municipalities must be safe for everyone. This government inherited an ESA issue on air quality, which we are working on a lot, and we are now tightening up the limit values and setting a legally binding new limit value that is clearly governing the municipalities, for what the municipalities have to do, and the state is going to contribute to getting new tools, so that we together are able to improve air quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1072	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1077	But then it's normal posts, so then I offer the council to go and sit over there in their place. Maybe I'll just start by pointing out a thing that I think is important. From this pulpit there is still a recurring thing – which this time, from Jan-Henrik Fredriksen – that I just want to underline is a lie. That is wrong, what is said by the representative, Fredriksen. He says that the previous government recommended people to buy diesel cars. I would like to ask the representative to provide documentation stating that the government recommended this. We didn't. As part of a 2007 tax conversion – which I would like to stress was a broad consensus here in the landfill – diesel cars became cheaper in competition with petrol cars. But there was only one group of parties that were concerned about this. At the time, there were comments from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, where we said we wanted to look carefully at how this turned out on the share of NO2 that was released. It was estimated that it would lead to minor changes. There was no call to buy diesel cars instead of petrol cars. On the contrary, four years later it was changed. A local tax component was introduced into the one-off charge, so it became more expensive to choose diesel cars instead of petrol cars. I just want to stress that I would like to have requested that it be repeated by representatives that there were some recommendations from the then government parties. On the contrary – there was a broad consensus here in Stortinget about the fee conversion that took place, and it was only the then government parties who were concerned about showing that if there was a worrying development, we would do something about it – which we also did at a later stage. I would like to redraw myself to one last article. I'll go into one important thing that I think it's important to get involved in the follow-up here. I think it is good that the Council of State warns that she will come back with a further intensification. However, I would like to point out what is problematic about the fact that we are not already setting the new limit values for 2020. Remember, with the ordinary consultation round announced by the Council of State — which took too long but is now announced — the new limit values will probably not be in place until sometime in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1095	Did the President understand that the representative was redrawing an article?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1098	Yes. In this case, the municipalities that will follow the new limit values will have less than half a year to adapt to the new limit values set. So when we think about the fact that the Council of State has spent one year and 83 days deciding to create the new limit values, it's problematic that one should run through political processes in all the municipalities, in order to follow up with such a short deadline. I would say, from a local authority point of view, that it would be very good for the predictability of the planning of the municipalities – for Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and all the other municipalities that will be affected by these regulations – if you put in place what kind of limit values to be in 2020, as soon as possible. The Directorate-General for the Environment has already recommended new limit values for 2020, but recommended that a review be carried out to look at the updated knowledge in 2018. The Council of State now chooses instead to postpone the setting of limit values until after an update of the knowledge in 2018. And I say, if one year is used again, from 2018 to 2019, to set new limit values, it is problematic for municipalities to have so little time to convert to new limit values. That is why there is a majority in the Committee, but unfortunately not in the Chamber, because the Christian People's Party is not involved in it, which supports the need to set new limit values by 2020, not because we are opposed to an update of knowledge in 2018 – we are in favour of an update of the knowledge base – but because it would have been best for the municipalities, which, after all, should carry out those things. The state councils set only the boundaries; the municipalities will be the ones that set the new criteria. The second problem is that the Environment Directorate clearly states that the national targets should be consistent with the air quality criteria they have agreed with. But here the Council of State chooses to doubt that, in the next state budget, where we are to have national air quality targets, the 1999 criteria will still exist, although the Environment DG has recommended new national targets. Luckily, I say, there is a majority on the Stortninget that wants to deal with the new national targets for safe air in terms of the measures to be presented by the State Council to the Stortinget. Then I hope that until she completes the budget, the Council of State sees the sense of incorporating up-to-date national targets, instead of keeping to the 1999 targets. I would like to thank the Committee for its constant drive to promote new proposals for measures to improve air quality. I see that the Council of State follows them up, not in advance, but willingly after the Storting has adopted them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1117	I will be brief, but I would take the floor after the introduction of Eidsvoll Holmås, because neither the previous government nor this government have a proud history of combating air pollution. The previous government was not willing to accept — including tough — instruments that municipalities have been willing to use for several years. Both the fight against diesel cars with the ban and the release of heavy transport were stopped by the red-green government. It's really the big composition that makes us move in the matter, and that makes us finally start an instrument that allows us to address the issues. I also took the word to say that when we added about the car charges, it was not that there was no warning about the consequences. I do not know the details from Stortinget about who wrote what in the notes, but there is no doubt that at least from Oslo there was a clear warning that this is going to lead to worse urban air, and the one who sent the warning most clearly – I have to say – was actually the City Council of the Advance Party, Peter N. Myhre. So you were very aware that this was the consequence. If you go even further back, there was someone who was reluctant to make this change. But that's where we are today. What this case shows, and which is the most important, is that we finally get a clear decision that the State has a responsibility to present an action plan, together with the municipalities, to look at what is necessary to achieve the objectives and limit values that are there, both what is average during the year, and to take the worst-polluted days. Finally, I have a little heart attack. I don't really know how much effect it has, but it's part of a larger whole. After working in the Municipality of Oslo with activities in its own business for many years, and the city is far ahead, I wonder when the government will look at its own business. When do you systematically start removing oil fires from their buildings? When does the state start doing what others do, by saying that the entire fleet where zero emissions can be generated, will have zero emissions within a certain period of time, which is now completed from 2015? These things are possible, and the state can take a greater responsibility in its own business and go ahead, both to bring about a change in others and at least to be as offensive as the big cities are today. In common, it is fully possible now to deal with local air pollution, so that this can become a problem that we can look back on, and that we can finally overcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1133	When the representative Eidsvoll Holmås believes that I am both premature and dangerous with untruths, I ought to defend myself. When you are in government – as SV was then – and sitting with the Minister for the Environment, and then implementing a policy that eliminates taxes that make diesel cars cheaper overnight, at least I see it as a recommendation to the Norwegian people. And there is no doubt that the Norwegian people viewed this as a recommendation, for the sale of diesel cars rose overnight. Everyone perceived this as a recommendation, and that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås calls my statements a lie from the pulpit in Stortinget, is to go far too far, for there were more than enough warnings when it was about putting down the taxes on diesel cars when it was done. That should have been understood by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1142	If the term " lie" was used, I guess the president charged it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1145	No, that was a pretty precise statement, you see, from my side, so it wasn't charged. I would like to stress that what happened at the time in 2007 – since the Progress Party took it up, and since it has been mentioned several times by various progress party representatives and others here from the pulpit – was a conversion, removing the impact volume component from the one-off fee and replacing it with the CO2 tax. There was a broad consensus on the Stortinget. I can say that the Left also supported the conversion of the Stortinget at that time – just as a remark to Ola Elvestuen. So there was a broad consensus on that. And in the majority comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, it said: «Respectively, there is no reason to believe that the overall change in NOx emissions resulting from the conversion of the one-off charge will be small.» That's what we assumed would happen. Then we know that reality was different, but that's what the government assumed. Then we will underline: ‘The majority will clarify that it takes seriously emissions of NOx and particulate matter from road traffic. The majority therefore refers to the further conversion of the car charges by the Government, mentioned in St. pp. [[2006-2007]] No 1 Tax, tax and customs decisions. The majority will further work on the conversion of car charges in favour of both the climate and the local environment to invite committed organisations to further dialogue on how best to achieve the objectives.’ So four years later, a local component of the one-off charges was put in place. I just want to stress that this kind of comment did not come from any other parties at that time. I hope this is the last time we have a debate where it is said that the government recommended people to buy diesel cars. The government did not do that, so I would have asked myself that we said we did it. Furthermore, it would have been tempting to ask a question back to the Progress Party to hear: Is it such that the Progress Party will in the future re-apply the car charges, so that a removing diesel car or dramatically reducing the share of diesel cars among fossil cars sold in the time to come? In that case, it would be the natural consequence of the cracking accusations of the Advance Party against us who were in government and carried out this conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1173	I must say that I think this debate is beginning to take unworthy forms when one owes others for lies and lies. The case concerns the conversion of charges, which led to everyone who assessed the car change, seeing that the premium on the charging side led to an abrupt conversion of the use of diesel rather than petrol. It was viewed by the Norwegian people as a recommendation to switch to diesel. Now that one jumps from it, and the explanations are more or less good, we register. So we got a question about whether we would recommend that one go away from diesel. What this government does is to be clear in its work as a present and to work concretely to ensure that one will launch a reduction in missteps. We'll be clear that we want to launch a reduction in harmful emissions. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1180	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1184	I'll be brief. Sitting of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg 2007: ‘We encourage everyone to choose a diesel car instead of a petrol car, as these are clearly more environmentally friendly.’ Sitat Jens Stoltenberg 2007. Should it be clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1196	It's a clear quote. It's hard for me to criticize it. We in the committee who worked on this were quite clear about the work we did, but I hear what the Prime Minister said, so that's dispute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1201	As a result, it seems that the debate on history can also be concluded. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1217	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1224	Taking care of nature is also about taking care of biodiversity, for future generations to experience the same animal and plant life that we are experiencing, and not a reduced edition. That is why we are critical that the government has agreed to the plans for the landfill of mining waste in Fördefjorden. We know that right now, where it is to be filled with 150 meters of mining sludge over the next 50 years, several red-listed species have their spawning and breeding area – species that we are thus at risk of eradicating for future generations. We don't want to be in on that. It is, as we see it, sad that in 2015 a government – not because of a lack of knowledge, but on the contrary, after an extensive investigation that has also highlighted the problem of vulnerable ecosystems in the fjords concerned – can actually grant emission permits which in worst cases could lead to the eradication of rare species. No, we expect better, we expect a listener to clear environmental advice. We expect the government to make sense and turn around in this matter. The Committee has noted that in cases of the establishment of maritime landfills from mining activities, such as Fördefjorden and Repparfjord, there are essential interests that are opposed. In local settings, there are differing opinions on the factors to be taken into account in terms of weight, natural interests or potential jobs. The companies applying for the extension of the site account for value creation and jobs related to the mining activity. The fact that the mining companies wish to find the most reasonably possible solution to the waste problem from the mining industry is, to a large extent, natural. But it is the responsibility of the authorities to put down their feet when such a solution is not in line with good and forward-looking management of Norwegian nature. The marine research institute has, in its hearing opinions, opposed the applications for fjord landfill in both fjords. They include: warn against adverse effects on fish eggs and life on the seabed. The current Directorate of Nature Management stated that they were concerned that the release of mining waste into fjord would be contrary to international obligations assumed by Norway, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity. Operators such as the Fishlayer, the Coastal Fisheries Team and the aquaculture industry have been committed to defending clean fjords as a basis for safe sea food. In addition, there is talk of a national salmon fjord, and there should be enough arguments in itself. Last week we witnessed a broad mobilization in front of the Storing of people from different environments who all fought a common battle for fjords and against the dumping of mining waste in a vulnerable area. That mobilisation was just the manifestation of a great commitment from both the environmental movement and those living in the area, from the very beginning. In the Committee, too, this matter naturally has aroused a great deal of commitment. The balance between workplaces and environmental considerations is a classic. But here it might look like you haven't really taken the trouble to investigate and investigate the alternatives properly. We're not against mining, it's irresponsible environmental behaviour we're against. We believe that such matters, where significant interests stand up against each other, should have been tried at Stortinget, and we have made the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal that matters relating to major mining operations where major interests are at stake are to be brought before the Storting before final decision is taken.’ We think that it is initially the government that is going to decide this type of case, but when there are so many conflicting interests, the matter should be decided in Stortinget. That is why we are promoting the proposal I have just mentioned. Alternative deposit solutions are most relevant to be addressed in this case. In the public debate, environmental friendliness and the appropriateness of other solutions have been discussed. We should learn from this, and we therefore support the proposal that alternative land-based landfill solutions should be assessed in a consistent manner before the decision on mining in the Engebøjellet is taken. We are promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party. At the same time, we make it clear that we subsidiaryly support the three Roma points of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1253	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1256	The present document 8 is a proposal which in principle deals with the division of responsibilities between government and grubbing-up and deals with mineral activity or mining activities. In Norway, in recent times, we have not actively facilitated this activity – not very strange in itself, with a background in the history of mining activity and mineral activity, which may be in stark contrast to the environmental standards we set today, although we should perhaps, in an ethical and moral perspective, have contributed at a much earlier stage to finding solutions that would allow the world’s demand for minerals to eliminate more significantly the environmental challenges that the industry is creating, not only in Norway, but throughout the world. The framework for this type of activity lies in the Pollution Act, the Planning and Building Act and the Mineral Act. The aim of the Mineral Act, which we received in 2010, is very clear that the purpose and ‘the aim of the law is to promote and ensure the socially sound management and use of mineral resources in accordance with the principle of sustainable development’. Furthermore, the Mineral Act states that the law should take account of the «environmental consequences of extraction» and «long-term planning for the re-use or re-establishment of the site». There are quite clear formulations and clear indications of what the Mineral Law provides of opportunities for mineral activity in Norway. In addition, during our period of government, we were given a mineral strategy, in which we unequivocally stated that ‘Norwegian mineral industry should be among the world’s most environmentally friendly and actively seeking future-oriented solutions’. Similarly, we felt that it was important to facilitate predictable and effective procedures as a guide to the practice of industry by all state, regional and local authorities. So it's that things that we're now in a way involved in related to Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden are things where the interests are very hard on each other. It's something that's really natural and not to avoid, the interests are contradictory in this kind of case. We have always been clear about who is going to make decisions in these cases. We have always shown that it is the responsibility of the government to authorise the laws and regulations available for the extraction of mineral resources in Norway. We stand firm on this principle, even though in our party too there is considerable resistance to landfill or marine landfill. But I stress: the responsibility lies with the government, and it is a considerable responsibility that rests with the government and that they must deal with with with with utmost caution. If the principle of sustainable development is broken by the government's decision, the purpose of the mineral law is broken, and it is, of course, serious if that happens. We have therefore argued that, by its conclusion, the government imposes the strictest environmental requirements for any permit and, if authorised, that monitoring of the area is such that it closely monitors the state of the environment and resources in the area and is very clear that if the limits established are exceeded, it must mean an immediate stop in the activity. In dealing with the case, one has also come a long way in dealing with the individual cases, but we believe that some of the things that must be the basis for a decision are precisely that the decision has been thoroughly investigated. We have therefore tabled several proposals in the course of the debate, including: believes that it is natural in new cases to require the consistency of the different options for deposit solutions so that all relevant professional assessments can be obtained before a decision can be taken. We believe from experience what we're now seeing, that it's natural. We also say – to the core of the problem – that an investigation work must now be started to reduce the need for landfilling in future extraction of mineral resources, and that it is important that this is started quickly. Finally, we have today put forward a proposal, which I address, where we ‘ask the government to make sure that environmental advice is the basis for a comprehensive decision when final emission permits are granted for the extraction of mineral resources, and that it ensures sustainable development and does not impair the environment and/or the resource base over time’. It is a majority of the committee that is in favour of these types of points in the vote, and we believe it is natural that the same parties join that kind of decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1277	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1280	This case concerns whether it is the government or the Storting that will decide whether to authorise mining and landfilling of waste from Norwegian mines. In the case, there are two specific projects that have been working with over several years. The right view is that today’s legislation and practices take good care of the environment and industrial development. If the representatives behind the proposal believe that environmental considerations should be given greater weight than today, it would be far more orderly if amendments to the pollution law and other relevant legislation were proposed rather than shifting the decision from government to mass. The task of the big business is to pass laws, while it is the government's task to govern on the basis of the laws of the big business. That principle has worked well throughout all years and should be continued. The Government has approved the Entgebøjellet Regulatory Plan and granted emission permits with strict environmental requirements, which enable landfilling of the take-off masses in Førdefjorden. For many years, the consequences of possible landfilling of waste in the Fördefjord have been identified for life in the fjord, the spread of environmental pollutants and other environmental impacts. The conclusion of this comprehensive work is that it is environmentally sound to deposit take-off masses in the fjord. It will have consequences for the environment on the seabed in the area where the masses are deposited but will not lead to permanent destruction of the Fördefjord. Rolf Arne Kleiv and Sunniva Haugen, both professors at the Institute of Geology and Mining Engineering at NTNU, write in Today's Business on 18 May this year: ‘In some places, maritime landfill is the best solution On the basis of the most comprehensive impact assessment for the establishment of new mining activities in Norway, the Directorate has concluded that the benefits of maritime landfill outweigh the disadvantages. [[...]] Alternative land-based landfill solutions have not been considered environmentally friendly.’ It is therefore on the basis of ‘the most comprehensive impact assessment for the establishment of new mining activities in Norway’ that the Environment Directorate has drawn its conclusions. Many have expressed concern about the fish in the fjord. The fishing teams in the area do not spawn in the current depth range from 320 metres to 150 metres. Blue lang, which has been pulled forward, does not spawn in as shallow waters as the Fördefjord, according to the Marine Research Institute. Several have also expressed concern about the wild species, but it normally does not swim so deep. Land deposits were assessed by the previous government, but were assessed as not applicable for this project. In order to quote the Minister for the Environment, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, at Firda, on 25 March 2013: ‘Last fall, we asked Clif to investigate land deposits as an alternative, hoping that it could resolve mines more quickly. But the land depot did not go." The Directorate for the Environment is also clear that landfill is not a significantly better option based on environmental criteria. What makes SV and their former government partner Senterpartie now believe that what Klef in 2012 meant did not go, now is possible, is not known. The proposal to streamline land deposits appears to be little more than an attempt to train the case. Legally, it will also be problematic if the Storting now makes new assumptions about granting an authorisation that has already been granted. The right wants mining in Norway, and the world needs the minerals. Rutile is a titanium raw material. There are many uses. This could be done, for example, by: is used to make the metal titanium, which is stronger than steel and much easier. Titanium can be used in prostheses and electric car batteries. It is therefore applicable in a wide range of products that are also needed in the business life of the future. In Norway, we can extract this important substance with limited environmental impacts and very stringent environmental requirements in the course of the project. It's good business policy, and it's good environmental policy. The masses from the mine are directed in pipes down to the bottom of the sea. The non-polluting chemicals contribute to the bonding and rapid sinking of the mining sludge within the landfill area. The sludge doesn't spread. The landfill is continuously monitored. If the particles were to disperse against presumption, the company must immediately take action and, if necessary, close down the operation. Requirements are required to limit the negative effects of explosion, noise and dust and the use and release of process chemicals. Refilling and alternative use of take-off masses are required. In particular, strict conditions are important for the dispersion of particles from the marine deposit and monitoring of particle spread and natural diversity. The company must, among other things: implement an environmental monitoring programme in Fördefjorden. A system of monitoring and knowledge-based risk assessment of maritime food safety from the area is established. Monitoring and documentation shall be verified by the authorities. It is the first time that safe seafood has been required to be documented in an emission permit. The company Biologge AS believes that the tailings from the Engebøllet may be suitable as cover mass for contaminated seabeds in Norwegian and foreign ports. If this results in correctness, it is a paradox that the masses cannot be deposited at 350 metres deep in the Fördefjord. Norway needs more legs to stand on. Well-being must be financed, and we must ensure value creation throughout the country. It is then important to consider how we can realise projects such as this with the least possible damage to the environment, nature and Norwegian distinctiveness. I believe that the government has balanced these considerations with this resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1316	During an interpellation debate last week, it was found that Norway was ranked 10th by the renowned Canadian research institute Fraser Institute after the red-green government relaunched its mineral law and strategy in 2010. Fraser Institute ranks every year over a hundred countries according to how attractive they are to the international investor market of mineral industries. Last year Norway falls from the 10th to the 18th place of the ranking, while Sweden and Finland remain in the top of the world. Many think that the reason for this is that environmental interests have too much to present a scenario that does not match reality and that gives a picture of a political risk that affects Norway's example as a mineral nation – and perhaps especially for investors who feel that investment is considered uncertain. Especially has seabed been described negatively, as if a ruining all life in the fjord, and the Fördefjord has become an example of such a claim. Despite large and detailed monitoring and significant preparatory work focusing on the environmental impacts, where the Environment Directorate has identified clear and strong emission requirements, these claims are passed on. The option from which we have the widest experience is the land stock at Røros. From an environmental perspective, Røros is an example of how it should not be done, says a professor of mineral engineering at NTNU. Drainage from the Røros landfill, which is otherwise protected, leads a acidic and metallic run-off to Glomma, where copariona destroys both eggs and fish juveniles. For the Engebøfelt and the Fördefjord, sea landfill is the best solution, and that conclusion is based on the minerals and metals that are to be extracted, the production process and the chemicals used, and finally this is measured against the strictest environmental requirements. Chemically, it is an advantage that the excess masses lie in salt water with low oxygen and stable pH values, so if one is to deposit masses containing sulphide, there is a great advantage to sea deposits. That is why we also have the clear recommendation from the Environment Directorate to choose sea landfills after the directorate has made this thorough assessment of the impact. The special feature of this conclusion is that it is similar to the conclusion that the red-green government got developed by Clif in 2010, where the conclusion is a clear recommendation not to choose land deposits with all the dangers and plagues that this entails. One shows evenly to seaporting in a mine in Vancouver Island area where large amounts of debris were deposited until the mine was empty of resources. Furthermore, it says that the landfill had surprisingly small effects, and that re-establishment on the seabed started quickly after the landfill period was over. So these are the facts that SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party joined when they presented their mineral strategy in 2010. The question is, does one stop believing in its own conclusion because one has come into opposition, or is it the political game that is the most important? This is especially so when we record a large political focus on new jobs. It is a fact that Sogn and Fjordane have too few jobs and want more. So to the question of whether we need mine in Engebøjellet. The mineral to be extracted is rutile, which is composed of titanium and oxygen and is a very important mineral. Titan is used in the aviation industry and in the space industry, to make artificial hips, knees and other body parts, on which we, as a welfare society, are highly dependent. Aren't we going to take our responsibility as consumers and be responsible for mining a material that we're very dependent on, but are we going to leave it to countries with completely different environmental requirements than our own? Rutil we depend on in many products, such as paint, food, medicine, toothpaste, etc. As a nation, we have an independent responsibility for supply. In other words, we have a moral responsibility to make use of the natural resources that exist – and that under a regime with strict, but far-reaching environmental requirements, so that both industry and investors can feel sure that the investment in the mineral industry is safe and sustainable when one complies with the strict concession requirements that have been given. This government bases it on its conclusion and is thus involved in taking the responsibility that is needed. Many people point to the possibility that masses should be deposited. With multiple objects needing coverage, an assessment should be made whether it is possible to ship parts of this mass to any object or area that needs coverage. If this is possible, the excess mass represents a resource that we would otherwise have to pick up elsewhere. It is true that the siting government proclaimed the mineral industry to an important field of activity, and the emission distillation is helping to facilitate more mineral industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1356	The question of establishing a maritime landfill in connection with mining in the Engebøjellet is one that involves both a demanding balance and a demanding balance between natural interests and value creation. What we are dealing with in the Storting today is primarily a question of what is in the Storing, and what is in the government. The question is: are these matters to be decided by a large majority or by a government? The central party's position is that these matters are the responsibility of the government to decide. It is such that when some issues related to extraction, approval or expansion are added to the Stortinget, there is a legal basis for it. This happens, for example. in the case of an expansion of power over a certain size, in which case it shall be permitted. In the case of emissions under the Pollution Act, it is the government’s responsibility to take those decisions. The centre party will therefore not support any proposal that contributes to sending this case to Stortinget. It has nothing to do with the Storting. It is the government that has authority and is responsible for granting that type of authorisation. We believe that there is an appropriate division of labour between government and growth, that it should also continue in the future, and that it should not be eroded through individual cases in this way as an attempt to do today. A majority of the Committee now requests that all new applications for authorisation for mineral activity be subject to impact assessment requirements. That's what the Center Party thinks is important and positive. We also ask – together with a majority – that efforts be made to reduce the landfill demand for mineral extraction. It's also important. But when we then ask for impact assessment for new mining projects, it becomes a little inconsistent that one does not also ask for impact assessment for the project we are dealing with. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it would be the most tidy, the most predictable, and also the most equal treatment for other future projects that will require it. It is a fact that the company’s assessment of alternative landfill solutions has not been consistent with alternative land-based landfill solutions in this project. The Directorate-General for Environmental Studies, which became publicly known together with the emissions permit on 17 April, states: ‘The company has not carried out an impact assessment of alternative land-based landfill solutions’. However, on behalf of us, they have carried out assessments of three different alternative landfill solutions that are not in the marine environment. The centre party believes that it makes sense for a future project to know that one has to carry out an impact assessment of alternative landfill solutions, but we also believe that such a requirement should include the project we are discussing today. Such an impact assessment can change the government's decision, but it does not have to, and we have not said in the decision that it will be subject to a new decision, but we have said that such an investigation must take place before the decision that has been taken is taken. It is simply a question of getting the best possible information about the matters that you have to deal with, and that we all know is very demanding matters. Not only will it be demanding in the Engebøjellet, but it will be demanding in the Repparfjord as well, and it will be demanding in all future mineral extraction projects. Then it makes sense that we have a common and complete requirement for those who are going to expand. The centre party supports the proposal for impact assessment, but we are going to oppose proposals that help this matter to be dealt with in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1373	So I won't forget that, I'll first take up the proposal from, among other things. Left and will also point to a small typing error in proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox It shall be ‘essential interests ‘stand up’ against each other’ — so as to clarify it. We are also associated with, among others. The central party on the proposal for the impact assessment of the project in Fördefjorden. The proposal has just been submitted so that these major mining-deposit cases go to the Storting. I'm amazed that you don't see the need for it. These are large landfills that are about to be established. This proposal concerns Fördefjorden and Repparfjord, and may well create a precedent in addition to these two individual issues. It is worth remembering that in 2011 the Art Database placed the fjords on the first Norwegian red list for habitat types. The background for deciding on the Storting is, of course, that there are conflicts and major interests facing each other. It is a big debate and it is going on throughout the country. The Marine Research Institute has accepted the application for fjord landfill in both fjords. Entrepreneurs such as the Fiskarlag, the Coastal Fisheries Team and the aquaculture industry were involved in defending clean fjords as a basis for safe sea food, the NHO Travel Life, the Business Organisation Work and Norwegian Lakseelver see the plans for the release of mining waste as a tack against the tourist industry. There are conflicting interests that need to be balanced against each other. Fisheries, seafood and tourism are industries that depend on clean fjords and a good international reputation and that can be harmed by the release of mining waste. In the Directorate-General for the Environment's assessment of Fördefjorden, they themselves say that, in the balance between conflicting interests in the matter, this is a policy issue at the seventh and last. It is therefore obvious that these cases should be presented to the Grand Duchy as the country’s highest political body. That's where we're going to take the balances, that's where we're also going to take responsibility for the development that the majority finally goes on with. When I hear the comments both from the representative of Astrup and from the representative of Grimstad, there is no doubt that the professional details of the matters mentioned in the case have definitely been discussed here. I can't understand why with the detailed knowledge, and also the security that's there, you're not willing to present this as a separate case with a line of argument, so that you get all the recordings, you get a big public debate – that we can get the hearing opinions into the Storting and make the decision here. There's nothing unusual about that. I believe that in a historical light – if you look back – you would see it as completely unacceptable if a decision such as the extension of the Altavas line had not been made on the Stortinget. As far as watercourse regulation is concerned, it is right that there is a law that underlies, so these matters come to the Stortinget as individual cases. It is also in the decision that where there are material interests opposed to each other, not only the size, it shall be submitted to the Stortinget. These are simple things where it's urgent, so we should take it here. In the case of the large oil and gas expansions, it is the same. We have the Johan Sverdrup field for consideration in the committee now. It is quite natural that these decisions are made at Stortinget. When one first went in to establish gas plants in Norway, no one questioned whether it should also be presented to the Stortinget. In the proposal on Fördefjorden, we are talking about filling up 150 metres of mine sludge in an area of 3 km2 – in that order. Shouldn't that be a question for the Storting? It has not been investigated as land deposits, but if land deposits are not an alternative, then perhaps the right option is that they remain in the Engebøjellet until a new technology is found. These are important things, there's a lot of commitment. The left has a very clear opinion on the proposals. We are opposed to progress, but the fact that the content of the proposal should at least be taken to the Grand Duchy is incomprehensible that there is no majority in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1395	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has taken up the proposal he has referred to and has corrected a typographical error. The proposal was already taken up, but it doesn't matter if you do it twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1399	Let me just briefly go back to the previous matter we were dealing with, because here I believe that Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has committed a serious infringement. He claimed to quote Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, but has not been able to explain in retrospect where these quotations came from. I would say that this is not a way to quote from a former prime minister if this is a falsification. My allegations from the previous debate stand at hand. To this matter, it is the following to say: there is a mountain-wet rule called mountain-wet rule No. Eight. Is there anyone who remembers what it's like? It says, "Turn around in time, it's no shame to turn around." And that's what this case applies. So the government has agreed to turn a living fjord into a dumping site for mining waste, where there is no doubt that the sea bed will die. This matter, which we and the Left have been promoting jointly, has been promoted to ensure that major mining exploits come to the Stortinget. So it's about what the representative Nikolai Astrup was quite right about, and what the representative Marit Arnstad and others have been up to, namely, the relationship between what decisions it is up to the Storting and who it is up to the government to make. On the part of the proposers, from the Left and us, it is very clear that we want this type of decision to come to the Stortinget – because they are large, they are principled, they involve many people, and they involve great industrial interests. So it is that roads, power building things, big petroleum things, all are things that come to Stortinget, and from our point of view, we are ready to believe that even these things, which are about major mining developments, should come to Stortinget. I would like to stress that the government is refusing the Stortingen to deal with this matter in the most orderly way possible as they promoted their decision on the Engebøfelet and the mining waste dumping in Førdefjorden before the Stortinget had finished dealing with this matter. Had the government had less urgency and more fingertips, they would not have decided this matter until the Storting had dealt with it. They have not done so, but still the extraction permit is on the King's table and is to be decided by the King in the Council of State, and therefore we find it timely to maintain what is our proposal, which has also been maintained by previous speakers. This is a matter where it is that if you have stood on the Engebøllet and looked at the magnificent nature that the government will hurt, if you have listened to the business that translates for between 10 and 20 billion. kr, which already exists there – and which sees this mining development with the waste landfill solution as a threat to its pure existence and to the clean seafood industry as the leader – and if you have met the people who are affected by the government's policy, you may have been convinced that implementing this mining development with this landfill solution would have been wrong. I've done it, many of my fellow politicians have done it, but the government has chosen not to do it. They've chosen not to meet the people and the business they're about to hit, and they haven't listened to the environmental advice. The environmental advice is clear. Even if the government tries to make it another way, they're unique. In a letter from the Environment Directorate of November last year, ‘assessment is that the environmental considerations indicate that the objection should be raised’. At the same time, the Directorate for the Environment says: ‘In this assessment, we have not carried out a full weighing of environmental considerations against other societal considerations.’ That's what politicians have to do. Later, however, the Directorate-General for the Environment was asked to do this, but the environmental advice to the regulatory plan, which said yes to landfill, and which accepted this matter, was timely. I think it is important that the Engebøfelet and the Repparfjord case, which we are also dealing with here today, receive the attention they deserve, and I therefore want us to support those proposals even though I see that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1424	The President will remind the representatives of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 55. There it is said that the speaker should stick strictly to the issue under discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1427	This case concerns a highly legitimate question, namely whether the Stortinge has the opportunity to request the investigation of alternative types of landfill for any mine in the Engebøjellet and the dumping of the waste in the Fördefjord. Yes, the emission permit has been granted, but the question, as it must be the natural right and obligation of the Storting to raise, is whether this is a well-founded decision. The representative Astrup concluded that the Environment Directorate has concluded that it is environmentally sound to dump 250 million tonnes of mining waste in Fördefjorden. But they haven't. What they have done is to make a comparison between dumping 250 million tonnes of mining waste in a rich and pristine fjord environment and the alleged harvest of 300 – or how many it is to be – workplaces of this activity. It's a comparison that's completely impossible in all possible ways, and it's a comparison that's one hundred percent political. What the Environment Directorate has done is to conclude on the environment that all the consequences of these activities are negative for the environment. Each and every factor assessed by the Directorate-General for the Environment has concluded that they have a negative environmental impact. But then, in accordance with the requirements of the pollution law, they have assessed this against the socio-economic benefits and come to the conclusion that the huge environmental impact we are talking about here does not have an adverse effect that outweighs the perceived socio-economic benefits. This is particularly important in principle because it affects the conditions for planning industrial activities in Norway in the future. What must be absolutely indisputable is that if we are to be able to develop a business in Norway in the future that does not do what today's business is doing and the business of yesterday has done, namely to reduce biodiversity, to eat nature and to influence climate in a way that will harm generations after us, and to avoid it, we must impose stricter environmental requirements. We can't use the same requirements and the same facts that we've been using now, and at least we can't do that when we see that we come to the same conclusions that we made 50 years ago, 25 years ago about that type of intervention, that is, that yes 300 jobs are good enough to rage the entire inner part of the Fördefjord's bottom ecosystem. It is precisely when the Storting must take its responsibility and try to raise the question of whether this has been properly investigated and whether it is possible to ask for new investigations. I look forward to this case, although I see it challenging an established dividing line between who is going to make which management decisions, can open up a more in-depth debate on how we treat this type of military intervention in Norwegian nature and this kind of comparison between intervention and perceived benefits to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1438	The establishment of mining activities is assessed in accordance with several legislations to ensure that different considerations are taken into account. The rules also ensure that matters are properly investigated and that democratic processes are carried out. The municipalities are responsible for ensuring that land-use planning is in line with the Planning and Building Act and that business plans are sufficiently comprehensive. In the event of the adoption of a spatial plan, the environmental authorities must consider whether to grant a permit under the pollution law and the conditions to be laid down for the purposes of environmental considerations. I believe that there is a positive commitment to how issues relating to the establishment of mining activities can best be addressed in order to ensure that all the different considerations are taken into account, not least environmental considerations. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee considers that the legislation covered by the mineral industry ensures thorough and professional evaluations and that the government should continue to be responsible for the proper conduct of the proceedings in these cases. The majority of the Committee has also stressed that environmental advice must be the basis of the policy conclusions reached and that sustainable development is the framework for any conclusion. I am pleased with this clarification from the Committee, which we have followed up in the decisions we have taken regarding mining activities in Engebøfjell. There are few projects that have been so thoroughly investigated by the professional community to reduce uncertainty as this case, without full agreement being reached in all professional environments. I can assure the Committee that strict environmental requirements will be imposed on individual permits and that the environmental and resource situation will be closely monitored where permits are granted. I can also assure you that the necessary reactions will be carried out if conditions are not met. The majority of the Committee proposes that, in the case of new applications for mineral activities, the government should require consistency to be established between different options for landfill resolution, in order to obtain all relevant professional assessments before a decision is taken. I can assure Stortinget that the government will also be interested in all relevant professional assessments. In this respect, I would also like to refer to the obligation of municipalities to ensure that impact assessments are carried out in the context of planning proposals under the Planning and Building Act. It is clear from that legislation that impact assessments are to explain assessed alternatives in planning matters and also that relevant and realistic alternatives are to be assessed in an impact assessment. I believe this provides a good basis for, among other things. ensuring that municipalities consider alternatives to maritime landfill in mining and that alternatives are identified where these are considered relevant and realistic. I have noticed that the majority is proposing a decision that the government should initiate efforts to explore the possibilities of reducing the need for landfills in the future extraction of mineral resources. I believe this is an important issue. I also put conditions in the permit for mining operations in Engebøfjell that the company will continuously work to reduce the amount of mass that needs to be landfilled, by finding alternative uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1456	I am pleased with two elements of the Council of State's contribution to the Storting now. One is that I see it as this with impact assessments, and one through the decision of the Storting must demand that the different deposit solutions be assessed on a case-by-case basis, is a strength for the future treatment of this type of case. Can the Council of States confirm this, and can the Council explain a little further how the Council of State assesses the possibilities for the State to participate at a more active level in relation to reducing the need for landfilling through better use of mineral tailings and a more environmentally sound way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1461	It is the municipalities which are planning authorities under the Planning and Building Act and which adopt planning programmes and assess impact assessments for major mineral extractions and whether they are satisfactory. Then it's important that the state demands deposit solutions. One has also requested in the authorisation of Engebøfjell to minimise the need for landfill. So there's been a long and thorough process in the Engebo case, where it hasn't ever occurred at any time that a land deposit would be more environmentally professional to recommend than a sea deposit. However, it is important when we have mineral nutrients in Norway, that the state also enters and interacts with the enterprises, to see if it is possible to minimise the need for landfilling mining waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1468	I did not really get a very clear answer to that with impact assessments in connection with future mineral activity in Norway. Can the Council of State answer yes or no: Is it natural that a person should consistently determine the different deposit solutions based on the assessments and considerations he himself now takes in relation to the experience he has from the two cases mentioned, respectively in the Førdefjord and Repparfjord? Should it not be natural for an earlier impact assessment to be required and perhaps related to the mineral law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1473	It is the municipalities which are planning authorities under the Planning and Building Act and which adopt the Plan Programme and assess whether impact assessments for major mineral extractions are satisfactory. State agencies are also involved in the work on planning processes and impact assessments. I believe that that legislation well respects the need for relevant professional assessments to be produced before a decision is taken. But then you see now what The Greatness is going to decide here. I believe that the government should come back to that proposal and see how this should also be followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1480	Regulation on the framework for water management is Norway’s legislative framework for the EU Water Directive. Sections 4 to 6 of the Regulation describe environmental objectives for different types of water resources, and here it is again a principle that there is no reason for water resources to deteriorate in quality. As far as Repparfjord is concerned, we know that it is about the release of metals that are on the EU priority list of substances that are to be sought to reduce emissions. Has the Ministry and the Council of State assessed whether Norway has a good or a bad case if the emission permit in Repparfjorden were to be filed for ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1487	Now this matter concerns something other than Repparfjord, but as part of the government's work on both Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden, we go in and assess matters in the light of the EU Water Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1493	Governments are constantly pointing out in their speeches the thoroughness of the work done here, and the thoroughness of the case preparation that has been done. But thoroughness is not what makes a political decision. This can at best be a basis for a political decision. Then my question becomes: is the Council of State agreeing with the Environment Directorate that the conflicting balances of interests in the Fördefjord are primarily a political assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1498	I still believe that there is a basis for saying that this matter has been thoroughly investigated. There has been a long period of processing from Naustdal and Askvoll municipalities, which decided on their planning basis, and the requirements for new issues posed by the previous government around maritime landfill. Many problems have been solved in the course of this. Then we have dealt with the matter under the Planning and Building Act, under the Mineral Act and the Pollution Act, but at the end of the day it is the government that has then taken its decision in the light of the recommendations we have received along the way. But I believe that it is rare to see a case that has been so thoroughly investigated, made so many demands, even now in the case of the emissions permit, made as stringent environmental requirements as they have been made here, also for monitoring maritime food safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1503	It would have been okay if we had a government council that was able to answer yes or no to the question: is this finally a political assessment? The obvious answer is yes. The environmental arguments are counterproductive. It also appears in the Environment Directorate's letter. I will go to the proposal for Decision II, which will be adopted here today: ‘The government is asked to start work to explore the possibilities to reduce the need for landfills in the future extraction of mineral resources.’ The central question to the Council of State on this occasion is this: Will the Council of State do this, review the emission permits already granted, before this matter is dealt with by the Council of State, on the basis that the Storting wishes to reduce the emissions of masses in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1515	I think it is important to look into whether it is possible to reduce the need for landfill in the future, and I have said I will come back to the Storting about it. In the emissions permit to Nordic Mining, I have just made a condition that the company will continuously work to reduce the mass that needs to be landfilled, by finding alternative uses. But then we know that when most types of mineral deposits are extracted, there will be significant surpluses, so also in the future it will be necessary to consider good landfill solutions for mining. But as I said, in the emission permit we have given, we have made a condition to work continuously to reduce the masses that need to be deposited, by finding alternative uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1520	The whole point of impact assessments is that they should provide a basis for assessing the benefits and disadvantages to each other and for assessing what is acceptable and unacceptable. The other side of that assessment is the perceived social benefits of implementing an action, such as: dumping 250 million tonnes of mining waste in the Fördefjord and that benefit is therefore 300 jobs and tax revenues. I've previously asked the Council of State where the limit goes for the benefit, because we have a good deal of knowledge about the disadvantages, the environmental interventions. The question is, when this project is possibly approaching realization, and we get to know how many jobs we actually get, how many tax receipts we actually get, has the Council of State prepared itself and made some sense as to where the limits go because the social benefits become too small to accept destroying the bottom of the inner Fördefjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1525	The government has worked on this matter for a long time, and there have been deviations, there have been listened to good, professional advice, and there are the strictest environmental requirements that have ever been imposed on a sea deposit. It shall be monitored. Now providing an answer to where that limit goes is not relevant. The emissions permit is given according to the data we had when we gave the emissions permit, and it is important for us to follow up that the emissions permit is being followed up, that it is being monitored, and that it is being preserved. Those assessments were made when we decided on the matter and gave the emissions permit on 17 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1530	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1535	The case of mineral extraction in the Engebøjellet has been handled by public authorities since 2007. The government has taken a brave and wise decision to approve the control plan and emission permits for mining in Engebøjellet and has thereby facilitated an industrial adventure in Sunnfjord and Sogn and Fjordane. We in the Right are clear that we want a new economic development that can create values, and that can finance our welfare society as the revenue from oil industry decreases. The mineral extraction in the Engebøjellet could create 300 jobs in Sogn and fjordane and a total of 500 jobs nationally. It's going to invest 2 billion. kr in mining. The project will provide a contribution to the Norwegian enumeration of approximately 500 million. kr per year for the 50 years in which mining is expected to last. Sogn and Fjordne need these workplaces, and the world needs rutiles from Engebo. What we see in this case is an attempt at rematch and training from the party that does not want mining and landfill in Førdefjorden. It's tragic to see that the Center Party is attached to this, and that they're willing to sacrifice one of the biggest industrial ventures in Sogn and fjords for cheap and populist positions. When former government councillor Bård Vegar Solhjell asked for new information in 2013, he did not ask for alternative landfill solutions. Neither did the Senterpartiet, who was then in government. Here is the list of Solhjell's new requirements for distribution in 2013: Documentation of the fjord circulation pattern and the risk of particulate spread during and after deposition. Further identification of any spawning areas for fish and of true, close to true and valuable species and nature types in the landfill area. The company shall submit a more specified plan for landfilling take-off masses based on closer investigations and assessments of how the release should be arranged in order to minimise the risk of spreading fine particles. Designating the drilling and blasting pattern the enterprise will use, what sound pressure will follow [[...]] Why didn't Solhjell and the Central Party demand the disposal of land deposits when they had the chance to do so? The answer is probably as simple as it had already been done – and rejected. I want to commend the government for a very thorough and comprehensive distribution work. The government has taken a wise and courageous decision in Engebo-saka. Both the municipality of Nordic Mining, the municipality of Naustdal and the municipality of Askvoll will facilitate open and good processes in further efforts to start mining in Engebøjellet. I am sure that when mining starts in three to four years, this will be a major industrial venture, based on safe environmental conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1568	One never completely stops being thoughtful about the many aspects of policy. It is amazing to learn that the National Strategy of the Workers' Party and Trond Giske on a commitment to mineral industries after just four years is being scrapped by the same Workers' Party. It is also amazing that in Question Time we hear from the Workers' Party's complaints that unemployment has risen, while in this proposal they make it even more difficult for mining companies to establish themselves so that we can get hard-pressed jobs in the districts of Norway. The proposal of the Workers' Party is a clear and clear tightening of the legislation – and will cost any new companies expensive – even though Norway already has the strictest requirements for emissions and regulation that exist in the world. You can only wonder if the Workers' Party would like jobs at all. I can't help but wonder how amazingly black-and-white these kinds of things are described and produced. The objectivity is often absent. The head of the committee, who is negative to mining activities, said on TV about the emission permit in Førdefjorden that as a nation we had to learn from the errors that had been made by AS Sydvaranger with the emissions there, and that the Bøkfjorden at Kirkenes was dead. I can inform the committee leader that Bøkfjorden is far from dead. The cod, hay, sieving, salmon and sea trout are fished on the inside of the landfill. The fjord is too rich on pieces of stone, halibut and royal crabs. But the power development of Pasvikelva, who broke our largest large-grown salmon strain in Norway, was not mentioned in a word. Or maybe I'll say it in a slightly different way: if one day I was going to use to shop a used car, it wouldn't be by the committee chairman, because then I probably end up with a bike.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1577	As a local politician in 2011, I was involved in examining the regulatory plan for the Engebø project in Fördefjorden, and there were major unanswered questions related to the consequences of sea landfill. Some called for more knowledge of the environmental impact and wanted land-use disposal, and some were willing to take the chance regardless of consequences. They got multiples. Following this decision, significant new information has emerged from the additional studies undertaken by the Minister of the Environment, the Environment Directorate, and not least from a comprehensive maritime food and travel industry. The studies show that a large majority of the people in the region want to listen to the dissuades of marine landfills. There are so many good reasons to believe that in 2015 local democracy will say something different than in 2011, if it gets the chance. It is a major error in the process that land deposits have not been properly provided. We don't know what land deposits will be of jobs, nor do we know what it will be of environmental consequences. We only know that the sea deposit is probably the most reasonable solution, and it is a solution that makes it impossible to use the residual waste for other purposes in the future. It is now said that a mountain should be cut down, and only 3-4 pst. it shall be used. The rest shall be in Fördefjorden, which is at the same time national salmon fjord. The interaction between political will and business competence is what gives innovation, new environmental solutions and profitable and attractive jobs in the future. The left does not say no to mining, and we now have the opportunity to say yes to mining where the product is not only rutile, but where eco-innovation links to mining waste management can be equally interesting. If we go straight to the simplest and most reasonable solution of dumping in the fjords, we also have to assume that the social benefits of the project are highly questionable, when we know that there are large commercial interests in this area in contrast to the desire for the seabed. Seafood, represented by enterprises as turnover for 16 billion kr, confirms it. Salmon exporters may already notify negative reactions from the customers of the government of their decision on landfill. We are now making a decision that enters into history among the biggest environmental scandals in modern times, without even knowing what other possibilities we have. Regardless of where we stand, where there is a willingness to take risks that presuppose nature for the benefit of business, we must only be able to say that, when we are faced with major problematic measures, which come from both the Directorate for Fisheries and the Directorate for the Environment on a professional basis, at least all other options for landfills must be dealt with first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1590	This matter has a long history, and it has a very long time to deal with it. At some point, it is necessary that we get the case from trial to final decision, in respect of those who have applied for authorisation in this case, and in respect of those who may apply for authorisation, and want to follow the Mineral Strategy of the Storting and start business in Norway. The minority's proposal to make a new impact assessment is, in my opinion, rather amazing. In this case, the regulatory plan has been finally adopted and cannot be appealed against. It has been assessed that authorisation does not conflict with national or significant regional interests. If the alternative disposal solution proposal is now to be subject to impact assessment under the Planning and Building Act, it in effect implies that the decision has to be converted to the detriment of those to whom the decision is addressed. I doubt whether there is a legal basis for doing so. For me, it is very strange that a proposal in this case requires the administration to reverse its own decision, when the decision is taken in accordance with the laws and regulations adopted by the Stortinget. If you disagree with the interpretation of the rules, we have a court system that is ready to accept the case, if necessary. In this and the upcoming matters we are going to deal with, I think it is a golden and good principle that the Storting will adopt laws, while the government's task is to govern on the basis of the laws and regulations that the Storing will adopt. The second thing that makes the proposal a little strange is that a former environmental protection minister, as we have heard, has been told that landfill is no alternative. I think we all agree that mining normally leads to major natural interventions. Therefore, it is important that we have good and strict rules in order to allow mining. We have strict rules. Yes, we also have a brand new mineral law and a brand new, reworked mineral message adopted in this room. The decisions taken in this matter are based on good and well-established legislation today. I don't know if it's good Latin to speculate, but I wonder if the minority doesn't want mining at all. Then it's better to ban it than to push obstruction through an infinite process. So finally, from the opposition, we've heard several times that we have to get more legs on, and we have to come up with measures, especially when we have an increasing unemployment rate, and an oil industry that is struggling. If we are to create new jobs, especially in areas with major challenges, we need to facilitate the use of our resources. These activities will provide very many new jobs in a district that needs it. In addition, when the activities have come through one of the world's most stringent legislation on environmental requirements, it is right and proper that we allow them to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1606	Only a few brief comments at the end of the debate: Firstly, I think it is important to correct the picture that the committee's chairman gave of the division of labour between government and big business. I think the examples he gave were incredibly poor when it came to the relationship between government and greatness. Because it is clear that in the case of hydropower expansion, there are legal frameworks for which power expansions are to come to the Stortinget and which are to be decided in government. The same applies to oil and gas expansion. But other decisions under the pollution law are actually the government to take, not the Storting. So said representative Elvesuen the question of gas power plants that came to Stortinget. Yes, it came to Stortinget because the bulk of the population wanted to change the pollution law. And that's what they put us on. I happened to be in that government. It was not about the Storting taking over the treatment of gas power plants. They wanted to change the pollution law. I think it is important in this debate that we have a good relationship with what is the relationship, the division of labour, between mass destruction and government. Having said that, I must also say that on the other hand, I am a little surprised by the harsh attacks that came from the representative of Lødemel and the representative of Henriksen on the impact assessment. When a majority now establishes a system that is committed to future development in terms of impact assessment, it is a little strange that all future development, but not this, should be subject to that requirement. I think that's a little funny. For the Central Party, it is important that the matter is as well informed as possible, and it is important, as the representative Henriksen says, that we have good processes. When establishing a regime with impact assessment for all others, an extension such as this should also be subject to impact assessment before a decision is taken. It is quite clearly described in the Environment DG's papers that this has not happened. The assessments made are based on existing information. No further studies have been carried out beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1617	Let me first clarify: it is quite right that the Ministry of the Environment in 2012 asked the Directorate for the Environment to make an assessment for us of several different land-deposit options. They made a quick assessment with which they came to the department, and it showed that, at their best understanding, it was the worst option than the current sea-deposit option. It is also true that there has not been an impact assessment of the issue of land deposits in connection with the development of the Fördefjord, as requested by a minority in the Committee. We get a lot of chances of coming back to the discussion about Engebøjellet and Fördefjord, because that case is definitely not settled. In my opinion, the government has made a wrong decision. When one is going to get involved in such a large and complex case as this, I often try to think that one must be based on a value base, and the other must be based on the best possible knowledge base available to one. In this case, I believe that the value base is expressed by what is called the precautionary principle, which is entirely central in all environmental policies. The basis of knowledge is extensive, but the professional advice we have, if one looks at them widely, is a strong warning against maritime landfill, based on the fact that it does not meet the precautionary principle, and they warn against the maritime landfill. At my best understanding, it should have meant that we should have rejected the possibility of a sea deposit in Førdefjorden now. Someone says that we, who have put forward the proposal and who have argued in favour of the proposal in the committee, have hoped that there will be no landfill. Yes, I really do. And I suspect some of those who oppose the proposal here today, to hope that there will be something of it. But if we can look past it for a moment, to what is also part of the debate ahead: if the mineral nutrition is as big and important to Norway as many claim, and it might be worth it, if there are so many such things that are possible – and I know a little after a while that could be in pipeline – it would definitely have to be in place to discuss a decision-making system for it, which takes height for them to be important. We have it on other types of issues, on which the committee leader was involved, and what we are asking for is that such a system be put forward. So I found the post of the Central Party parliamentary leader very difficult to understand. We ask that it be established in such major and important matters. There is also a view of what the environment is, that the environment is not a small siding in a nutrition project. It is a fundamental consideration of social developments. We live by nature and the resources it gives, and managing nature is a very fundamental question. Therefore, environmental decisions must be taken at the landfill, in this area, as in other important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1632	I just want to remind you that the representative Solhjell could have settled this matter in 2013. I think the government has done a very extensive and thorough job in the last year and has come to a good conclusion. The landfill area of Fördefjorden only covers 3 km2, which is 5 pst. by Fördefjorden. In this area, the fjord is 300-350 metres deep, and the landfill will extend about 150 metres from the bottom. That means it's going to be between 100 and 200 meters with nearly pure sea above the landfill. When mining is finished, the vegetation at the bottom of the spring will grow again. Experience from other seabed mines shows that life at the bottom also comes back. Furthermore, environmental assessments confirm that there is a low risk of particle spread from the planned landfill. The arrangements that were subscribed to by the previous government confirm that the risk of spreading particles is low. Therefore, there is little risk that the landfill will affect non-deposit species, such as those living outside the landfill area. salmon, coastal cod and eel. There is also a low risk of damage to nearby farms. Nor is it such an extent that it harms the life of the Førdefjord. Emissions do not contain any pollutants. There has never been any stricter requirements for a sea deposit than for the Engø project, and a monitoring program will be created that will have a strict monitoring of emissions. This will indicate deviations in the spread and content of the mining waste — whether it is in line with the release loop. In addition, there are clear limits to chemical use. Breaking a release loop, businesses face the strict sanctions imposed by the pollution laws. One of the arguments that the opponents of mining and landfill use is that the landfill will go beyond the red list of fish varieties, for example. piggå, blue-legged and coastal cod. Piggå exists all over the world, but the one found in the North-Austat lantern is considered to be a stock of its own. It has its own habitat along the entire Norwegian coast. Piggå is categorised as ‘critical threat’ on the Norwegian red list mainly because of overfishing. Discontinuation of fishing is therefore the most important measure for this species. Blue ling is categorised as ‘strongly threatened’ on the Norwegian red list due to overfishing. According to the Environmental Directorate, the incidence of blue ling in other fjords is comparable to that of the entire area from Boknafjorden to Trondheimsfjorden. Coastal cod is widespread along the entire coast of Norway. Overfishing is the main cause of population decline also for this species. Common to all these fish species is that they are listed red because of overfishing. Claiming that 3 km2 with landfill in Fördefjorden should have anything to say for the survival of these fish varieties, is directly wrong in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1661	First I can assure the representative Henriksen that if he wants to buy some means of transport from me, it will be a bicycle, because that's what I have. But otherwise, in the argument itself, it is such that even if you find fish in Bøkfjorden, it is not possible to underestimate the major negative consequences that mining dumps and sludge dumping in Bøkfjorden actually have. There are a lot of people in this debate who constantly point out that Norway has the strictest environmental requirements. What is true is that Norway is one of the outermost, extremely few countries that at all allows landfilling of mining waste at sea. There are probably five countries still doing this, so far as most have a much stricter legislation for this type of waste, namely that it is prohibited to deposit it at sea. That's what we should compare ourselves to. It is also Papua New Guinea and Turkey, Indonesia and the Philippines that still allow this – and we are expanding it! The beech fjord is mentioned, with the negative consequences there, and now it's 150 meters of sludge to be placed in the Fördefjord. Now I also believe, like the representative of Solhjell, that this is definitely not over with this matter. There are many things that have been adopted, of which there has been nothing, and it is also possible for this matter. Also in Repparfjord, where there's a 30-40 meter depth, it's actually about dumping, and then there's 1,400 tons of copper a year, 588 tons of chromium, and 240 tons of nickel that we allow. So to the representative Arnstad: Here we have three proposals, and the one proposal – and the first, as it was also mentioned – is about the change in the rules, that here we have to have a change in the law so that these major landfills actually come to the Stortinget. Now that we have the two biggest issues involved, of course, they – as a natural part of that amendment – must also be brought to Stortinget. I think we have an independent responsibility to do that, because it's such a big debate. It is often the case that it is when the government makes its decision, that the population discovers what this actually means, at least on a broad scale – and then one must have an opportunity to participate in that debate and influence the outcome. And then Stortinget is the only right place to make the decision, precisely because we have the highest authority; we are the one who are going to make the final decision. It is quite right that these proposals have been put in place for a thorough treatment, for a new treatment and for responsibility to be placed. I find it strange when the Workers' Party and the Centre cover themselves behind a legal argument, in what appears as if you really do not want to take a stand on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1676	I was going to take up four points entirely on the back of the debate. One is that I would like to say a thousand thanks for a debate, which has been good in its own way, on what is to be dealt with by the Storting, and what is to be dealt with by the Government, and I regret that we do not come to a conclusion where we say that the Storting will get more of these matters to be dealt with. I notice that the majority two their hands and say that they think it's okay that the government makes these decisions. We – a large minority – want the Stortinge to have these matters dealt with to a greater extent. I believe that the very consequence of having a mineral industry that wants more widespread – and if the government says we should facilitate more widespread use – is that it would have been beneficial to have such a type of clarification between which issues we are dealing with and which issues the government is dealing with. It's okay. The second is the question of claims. So there I have tried to ask the Council of State if she perceives it until now that the decision that we now take – Roman Numeral Decision II – that we want the government to do a job to see how to ‘reduce the need for landfills in the future extraction of mineral resources’ has some consequences for the permit for the Førdefjord. The Council of State then says that there are already requirements to ensure that they can continuously reduce the amount of mining waste to be landfilled. But I want to say that from the majority of the population we express an ambition that goes further than that – we ask the government to do a job to reduce the mining waste. Then I would say, on my part at least, that I think such a type of decision should have consequences and should have done the government do a job to look at the amount of mining waste to be deposited, also in the decisions they are facing in connection with the emissions permit, which is to be dealt with by the King in the Council of State. The third thing I'd like to say is for Bjørn Lødemel. It is so simple that he points to and says that with these species he had hurt to think that this would lead to extinction of species. The problem in environmental policy is that it is the total burden on nature – not just that it is one blow that eliminates all of one species, but it is that one eats from here, eats from there and is attacked from several sides that cause a person to get into trouble. Finally, I just want to ask the Council of State if she's going to go to Friary and see the locals and Sunnfjords in her eyes before she makes this decision, or whether she's the kind of councillor that won't see them as she runs over, in her eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1694	It's just when the representative Lødemel emphasizes that there is over-taxation of the blue-winged and piggå that is the main problem for those species – therefore it doesn't matter to take part of their habitats in the Førdefjord, it's over-taxing that is the problem for the coastal cod, so it doesn't matter what we do to them in the Førdefjord, it's just x pst. by the seabed of Fördefjord, which is destroyed by this measure, it therefore does nothing — that we understand the need to lift this type of heavy environmental interference where it belongs, namely in the national parliament of the country. Then we can have an overall debate on what this really is about, and a debate that raises the environmental requirements and the overall requirements up to the level that we must have if we are to deal with such matters properly in the future. The problem is that we always apply old standards. We use standards that are not fully seen, as a basis for taking a decision on a massive environmental intervention. It is interesting that an overall business life related to the marine environment in Norway is intensely opposed to this measure, because they see the whole picture. They see the long-term consequences. They see the risks and costs. This is not done by dealing with this matter in the way that has been done so far by the government. This is our chance to permanently assume that we can move so big environmental things, including mining, into the Storting. That's why I really hope that the majority of the population, including the Workers' Party and the Centre, will end up with such a policy in the future and contribute to the fact that if it doesn't happen now, it will at least be what is going on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1701	First of all, I would like to point out to the Left, which says that we cover ourselves behind the law: I don't feel that neither the Center Party nor the Workers' Party covers themselves behind the law. We have been very clear that we have created a framework and a law that one must deal with in this matter. I can then say that it should be a problem for the Left, which is repeatedly opposed to the government in environmental and natural matters, that it is precisely the Left and Christian People's Party which is the parliamentary basis of the government. So to Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, who says we scrap the mineral strategy: not at all! Fredriksen could not have read the mineral strategy and the indications that all deposit solutions for any mineral project should be thoroughly investigated. If there is any debate here today, it is precisely whether there are thorough investigations that underpin the government's decision. Governments claim it, but the Stortinge discusses it. It is most legitimate to put forward a proposal that in the future, with new processes, one must have identified the different options for landfill resolution. What's amazing is that it's the government parties that vote against it. It's amazing. It is also very surprising that they are voting against a proposal for a decision that intends to limit the environmental challenges of mining landfills. It is most remarkable that the parties to the Government do not take part in the two proposals for decisions. You can ask questions about why in the world they're not. The Council of State does not have to come back to Stortinget with those proposals. It's just starting to work with them. There are clear requirements in the future for impact assessments for new projects and new application processes. It is only to start work on reducing the landfill demand for mining take-offs – simple and straightforward. If it goes the way I guess, the bulk of the population will decide it today. Then it's a clear direction for the government. So we're firm on the principles that we expressed in the mineral strategy. As a result, we have some problems with the proposal put forward by Marit Arnstad and the Central Party at the very end of the comitology process in terms of the impact assessment for the Engebøjellet, because we believe that we could actually propose it ourselves when we were sitting with the government. We have to admit it. We have to admit that Erik Solheim asked the question about the investigation of land deposits in 2012, and Bård Vegar Solhjell confirmed that it was not applicable in 2013. We're taking that confirmation with us, not least considering that we want to be predictable with this industry. But in retrospect, there is no doubt about what the bulk of the population thinks, and I think it is most remarkable that the government parties are not for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1712	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1715	This is precisely the case, which is the proposal of the Central Party for an impact assessment, and why the Workers' Party is not involved in this particular change, because it is now the decision that is taken. There have probably been processes in the previous government, but it is now up to treatment in the Storting, and it is now the Workers' Party has an opportunity to actually change the policy, and then it will be the start of the major change in the future issues. It's not like this has been processed. Here is a complaint before the Council of State, so it is now possible, but chooses to back up previous decisions and chooses not to address this issue also on the basis of some fundamental assessments of the law and the distinction between government and big business. But the Workers' Party could make a change now, and they should do it, but they don't choose to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1720	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1724	I tried to explain why we had the challenges of going into the proposal of the Centre Party that came all the way into the comitology of this position, and that it could break with the predictability that we are also concerned about. We also asked this question via Erik Solheim in 2012 and where Bård Vegar Solhjell confirmed that land deposits were not applicable in 2013. That's one ratio. Then we don't cover ourselves behind anything in any way. We have also made an additional proposal today, a loose proposal, where we are very clear on the basis of which the government's decisions must be based, and on which a majority in the Committee actually agrees. But we believe it is so essential that the Storting actually adopts this as a basic principle for the government to continue in these kinds of matters. So I think the Workers' Party is very clear, and unlike others, we may also be very predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1731	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1745	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1752	As the rapporteur for this matter, I am delighted to present the proposal for a representative promoted by the central party representatives Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Marit Arnstad, Jenny Klinge and Geir Pollestad. Their proposal is that they request a wholesale notification of Norwegian aviation during the autumn of 2015. I would like to start by thanking the Central Party for the initiative to raise such an important issue, which has also been debated several times in Stortinget in the last year. Aviation is a central part of the transport system in Norway. Aviation is important both for housing and for business. Aviation in Norway imposes specific requirements on operational competence and skills, due, inter alia, to: The topography and weather conditions we have in our country. We also know that the European Commission is looking at aviation, especially the employment situation in aviation, and is aiming to present a new aviation package towards the end of the year. The Ministry of Transport is also finishing work on a report on competition and globalisation in civil aviation in general and the challenges it creates for Norwegian aviation in particular. The report is planned to be submitted now in the spring and will be sent to the hearing. As you can see from the case, the majority of the committee will not be in favour of a decision on a major communication on Norwegian aviation now. Their assessment is that a major notification of civil aviation, if any, is most appropriate to follow the consultation round that will be carried out on the basis of the Government’s report on globalisation and competition in aviation. At least that means that you have hopes that there will be a message. It is particularly important to maintain the strict current level of safety in aviation. Much of the regulatory design of aviation takes place at European and international level, and it is important that Norway has an active role in this work. The Working Party and the Centre share the concerns of the proposers that competition in aviation has not only produced positive results for consumers and society. These members believe that competition in aviation has reached a point where this leads to unhealthy and unsustainable competition. We also remember the marking that was outside Stortinget before Christmas, by the Norwegian Flyerbund, where they among others. handed out the 'Freefall' book. Anyone who has read it sees the challenges in this industry. Today, legislation and supervision are being circumvented through fragmented corporate structures and creative recruitment models. Lack of European coordination has again left loopholes allowing social dumping and cynical exploitation of personnel in the aviation industry. Today, an airline may have a contract on routes in one country, have aircraft registered in another, be owned by a third country and operate so-called bases for employees in both a fourth and a fifth countries. Today, the industry consists of holding companies, investment companies, operating companies and manning agencies, typically with different geographical and different jurisdictions. The lack of international coordination and regulation of the industry is fully exploited by various actors in aviation. If we can't stop this development, this will probably accelerate – new companies will notice, we see trends in it. The working party is in a hurry to get its own roll-out message on aviation, so we support the proposals made by the proposers and have therefore made the following proposals: ‘During the autumn of 2015, the Government asks the Government to promote its own notification of Norwegian aviation.’ I would also like to address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1776	The representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1779	It is easy to take aviation as a follow-up. But only when the plane is on the ground do we understand how dependent we are on a well-functioning aviation. We have been reminded that flying is not a luxury that we can do without. In 2010 — during the ash crisis — aviation was not its role in a modern country like Norway to misunderstand. Without aviation, Norway will stop! The deregulation and globalisation of the air transport market imposes new requirements on operators, both authorities and companies. The need to ensure good framework conditions for Norwegian companies and a level playing field for competitors must be balanced against the need to ensure their rights. The Ministry of Transport is finishing work on a report on competition and globalisation in civil aviation in general and the challenges created for Norwegian aviation in particular. The report is planned for spring 2015, and he will then be sent on a public hearing. In addition to answering the question of a self-declaration on aviation, it now seemed much more appropriate to take this after the hearing, so that we can provide both comments and important input. The need for aviation will continue to increase in the future, which will require strong investment. We have a great responsibility to make Norwegian aviation resilient, and I look forward to the further work in the light of comments and the recordings that come after the hearing on the Globalisation Report.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1792	The aviation industry is currently a sector facing major changes, not least increased globalisation and deregulation. Old structures are breaking up, new ones are coming together, and new challenges are in line. This is a demanding area to manage for all – actors, customers and employees – and not least within the political system. We know that the European Commission is looking at the employment situation in aviation and is aiming at providing an aviation package by the end of the year, and Norway is very dependent on an interaction with the rest of Europe. I would like to commend the Minister for Transport who has taken this initiative to Brussels, just to look at what we can do together. And so we know, as others have said, that the Ministry of Transport is now working on a report on competition and globalisation in civil aviation in general, and not least on the challenges this creates for Norwegian aviation. For us, it is important to see this area in a much wider context, and not least await this report from the ministry. The need to ensure good framework conditions for Norwegian companies and a level playing field with competitors must be balanced against the need to safeguard employees’ rights. This whole area isn't black and white. There is little doubt that we also need to lay the foundations for a safe and sustainable industry in which Norwegian players are given the opportunity to compete on equal terms with other actors. The aviation industry in Norway must not be left out or treated as a protected industry. All of this will give us information and knowledge about when the report is on the table. In any case, we all do want the most Norwegian jobs to be maintained in the industry, but that we also need to renew ourselves to tackle the increased globalisation, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1805	Aviation is important in the transport system that we have in Norway. It is important for both housing and industrial structure. Aviation in Norway may impose special requirements, at least special knowledge of both topography and weather conditions, in order for us to have safe aviation. At the same time, aviation is the only means of transport that is self-financing through use. Since the 1990s, the deregulation of aviation in Europe has resulted in extensive competition and efficiency, resulting in a significant and desired fall in air travel prices. Deregulation has thus made air travel much more accessible to everyone. It is important to note that cheaper travel is not due to the goodwill of the actors, but is actually a result of deregulation and competition – a competition that, up to a certain point, is useful and appropriate for both consumers and society. At the same time, it is clear that competition in aviation has now reached a point where costs remain as the only innovative element. Equal rules are no longer sufficient, and ingenuity and innovation are now increasingly directed towards circumventing any restriction on the interests of owners – laws, rules, social obligations, Employer responsibility, supervision, etc. Therefore, additional cost cuts now will only serve interests at the expense of the customer, employees in aviation and the interests of society. Air carriers establish production bases — in other words, a network of routes in the country where the purchasing power and demand for air travel are high. Air carriers are also free to decide in which country the crew bases are to be located. The air carrier also determines the country in which the aeroplanes are to be registered. The sum of this allows for unhealthy and unsustainable competition towards the traditional network companies: the rating bases of the State where this is most reasonably considered, where social laws and regulations are weakest, and the supervision and registration of flights in the State where the airline considers most appropriate and where the fee regulation is lowest. On the other hand, the route production itself – the flight offer, the market, i.e. the centre of aviation activity itself – is to take place in the country where purchasing power is highest. It is therefore necessary for the Norwegian authorities to work to counteract developments in which traditional network companies also implement the same practice by preventing their flying personnel from being offered permanent employment in the future, with the consequence that this entire safety-critical profession is ‘forced’ to live almost on the side of society without access to the social rights and obligations we take for granted in Norway. In order to underline what such contracts actually involve, it is important to mention that they imply that the pilot is paid only when he/she is at work, while under threat of contract termination, the pilot is subject to legal liability for the performance of his/her own contract of employment. This means that the pilot himself will be financially responsible for his replacement by, for example: disease or pregnancy. As if this were not enough, there are also examples in Europe today that pilots actually pay to work, by compensating the airline for flight hours, checking out aircraft type or basic education as damaged. Of course, responsibility for employers becomes a mere matter, and the individual's right or ability to organise himself completely absent. Since disease causes financial loss or complete loss of income and therefore the possibility of depending on themselves and their families, there is a high risk that pilots with such contracts will be behind the levers responsible for hundreds of aircraft passengers when they should have stayed at home. Today, legislation and supervision are being circumvented through fragmented corporate structures and creative recruitment models. Lack of European coordination has again left loopholes allowing social dumping and cynical exploitation of flying personnel in the aviation industry. If this development in aviation is not stopped, it is highly likely that this critical infrastructure will be lost. Furthermore, the liberalisation of working and rest periods together with fragmented corporate structures and creative recruitment models poses a significant security risk. To stop this development, it's essential that we take action now. That is why, in this picture, we have proposed what we have done: a big message on Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1824	Aviation is important. It is an important industry, an important cluster, in which many have good jobs, which is also exciting. It is an important cluster for the Norwegian economy, and it is important for people’s everyday lives – the opportunity to travel either in a job or leisure context, the opportunity for business to communicate with each other physically, travel in meetings, meet – and it is important for the political landscape. When I recently ran the E10, there were many places along the way we met local politicians who pointed out how important it was to have local airports in order to have working weekdays and travel – for their part – to Bodø for important meetings for their county. Of course, it is desirable that we have an overall approach to aviation policy. That's what the government has -- it's just supposed to be missing. It is also good that the Storting wants to have a discussion about the whole of the policy being pursued. As mentioned in the letter to the Committee, we are working on an globalisation report, a report that addresses many of the issues that people in this Chamber are dealing with, and it is to be sent out to the hearing. Once we've got the hearings, it's natural that we go through them, and then come back to Stortinget, preferably with a big message, to get the discussion that puts the leaders of politics and the way forward in the aviation sector. But I can say regardless of our objective is to develop a good offer for the travellers. We want to have an infrastructure for airports that makes most people have relatively short routes to a good airport near where they live. That doesn't mean that every airport takes them anywhere they want, but via a network they're going to get around the world. There, Avinor does a good job, but there are also private players in the airport sector that we want to stimulate and strengthen, so that we have a good offer across the country with both Avinor and private providers. We want to develop a strong Norwegian cluster. We have SAS, we have Norwegian, and we have onions, but there's also the opportunity for others to look up. But those who are, we also want to ensure a good future. Then it's about being a good country to invest and keep offices in, but it's also going to be a good country to recruit and run from. And then it's important that you have good infrastructure on the ground. There, the government has changed the dividend requirements for Avinor in order to make more capital available to the company in order to carry out important investments. It has, among other things, made one in Bergen now build a new terminal. This meant that one in Tromsø a short time ago accelerated the construction of a new foreign terminal by three years. I think that's good. In addition, a job is done to look at the local airports around the country. Avinor just did a study of the airports in South Norway. They recommended to maintain all but nevertheless see the need to operate them even more efficiently to ensure the financial basis for each of the aerodromes. So we want to make it more attractive to operate airports, in the sense that one would want people who are out flying, who have always thought internationally, to look at, for example. The Gardermoen as a good place to interconnect or travel from. Let's do that, for example. by putting in place a system called ‘fixed transfer’ or ‘simplified transfer’, which means that when people come from abroad, they no longer have to pick up their luggage and re-check it in order to travel domestically. It's a system that's coming into place now in the harvest. In addition, the Avinor system is working against the United States to get ‘preclearance’ in place. So that means that one can fly to the United States and do the whole migration work when one goes on the plane in Oslo, and so countries and planes can be domesticated in the United States without having to go through the passport control there. There are schemes that an estimater will also make it attractive for many outside Norway to start their U.S. tour from the Gardermoen, instead of flying straight to the United States. So it's important that we have safety in the high-seat. It must be anchored at all stages, both in the airlines, at airports, in the political system and, of course, with strong aviation surveillance. The internationalisation, as many have mentioned, is important, but it is also important that one has good control of the situation that is, so one does not feel that there are loopholes where some airlines can register flights in many different places, have offices in different places, recruit different places and fall between seats on the supervision side. Then we have not done any service to aviation – then we have done it a service to bear. That is why, as early as January 2014, I took initiatives towards the EU to improve cooperation on legislation, supervision and mechanisms, so that one gets to a European system, and not just national systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1845	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1848	I record that the Solvik-Olsen Council would like to talk about the infrastructure and little about the employees. During the Stoltenberg II government, social dumping was put on the agenda several times, with several action plans against social dumping. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the new government has great formulations in which they say something about this: ‘Although Norwegian working life is largely characterised by neat and orderly conditions, some industries are characterised by social dumping and unacceptable pay and working conditions. This is unacceptable, both for the workers affected and for competing companies that comply with the law. The Government will therefore continue its efforts to combat social dumping.’ I expect that this must also apply to aviation. I wonder if the Council of State has read the book 'Fritt Fall'. At least he should have done it if he hasn't. My question to the Council of State is: Does he agree that the social dumping situation in aviation is a cause for concern? And if so, what initiative will he take to ensure a level playing field in this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1858	The theme that the representative addresses is important, but I would like us not to allow each other motives that we do not have. As I mentioned, I already sent a letter to the EU on 15 January 2014 with particular concern about the situation both in terms of safety and supervision, and how one sees some countries cutting into work environment requirements, which means that you do not get the good situation we want for those who work. It is precisely a topic that it is important that we cooperate on in the EU, so that we do not have different rules in different countries, but a free market within the EU. We also need to avoid having equal rules in different countries, but with different practices. For then – again – one undermines what is important, namely having fair competition. I want us in aviation to have the innovative and good companies that win because they are good at organizing and good employers, not the companies that try to cheat and trick and trick by cutting costs and underpaid their employees, or have bad planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1868	I note that the Minister does not want to spend any particular time on what is happening to the employees, except that he has sent a letter and has had contact with the EU. My question was: is the Minister concerned about the situation in aviation? At least I registered that they were very worried, those who stood outside in December. They used very strong words and said that now it was aviation safety, that is, the safety of our citizens flying every day. Then I wonder if that is how we can feel safe even if there is no decision being made today. I noticed that the minister said so far from the pulpit instead, but it may be good to confirm that he agrees with the concerns and will make a notification to the autumn about the issues in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1873	I had not sent this letter if the theme did not concern me and I was worried. I would not have mentioned this subject with the EU if I thought everything was okay. We would not have worked on this report if we thought there were no problems. It goes without saying that when we use energy and forces on it, when we light it in letters to also make the EU cooperate across borders, it is precisely because we believe that this is important. I think one here is trying to create conflicts and opinions that don't exist, at least not in this government. We have said that it is important to have good working conditions; it is important to have a good aviation environment. We say that it is important – and I also write in the letter – to strike a balance between the openness and liberalisation that the EU wants and the labour standards that we want at the same time. Just to underline: this letter is not something I send and then I forget it. Once a new Commissioner came into the EU system, I sent the letter again. I traveled down and visited and talked to her, just to take up the subject matter and make sure we were at a wavelength in both the way we work, and what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1882	I think the Council of State was very positive in view of the need to discuss the issues we have raised. I'm very happy about that, because it's quite serious, what's about to happen. Reference is made to a report in the course of work on competition and globalisation in civil aviation. It is a work that has been carried out by the former Minister of Transport, and, as far as I know, that report should have been completed in the autumn of 2013. But since then we have not heard anything more about it. Can the Council of States confirm that it is coming in a short time, and that it is possible to raise the questions raised in a further process in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1889	The report is important. In the previous red-green years, no aeronautical messages were submitted. I think it's in place to have an overall approach to it. At the same time, we have an overall approach in the policy of the government, but it is natural that it is also discussed in the Grand Duchy. The report was started during the previous government – that is correct. We're working on it. There was a lack of content that we've eroded. At the same time, we see very much happening in this industry that makes what was right a year ago would be very deficient today. It's the work that makes it both time-consuming and a little complicated to get a picture that is as accurate as possible when we send it out to the hearing, so we get the relevant hearing recordings back. I'm going to promise that we're busy with this. That is why we have taken the initiative we have taken towards the EU, which is why we continue this work on the report – we want to find a good response to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1898	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1903	I noticed that the Council of State spent 5 minutes almost not talking about any of the issues in the Document 8 proposal, but rather about the airport structure and other things. It's important, but that's not the theme. I would recommend the Council of State to read Pål Vegard Hagesetther's book 'Free Fall'. There's actually a lot of knowledge for those who are concerned about getting an insight into what's going on in aviation. It is a development of social dumping, which the Council of State would not talk about, a development with more insecurity for employment, which the Council of State would not talk about. But for the last half minute, the Council of State was as far as anything that is important in this book, and it's about aviation safety. State councils shall have in place that he spent half a minute on flight safety at the base. The investigation requested by the European Commission, which is in fact concerned about developments in aviation, and which has been carried out at the University of Ghent, points out that one of the consequences of unsafe conditions of employment, i.e. that one no longer employs responsible personnel on its own business, is that warning of near-accident and dangerous situations in aviation is being reduced. Then the new forms of employment are also a threat to security. Then the Council of State shows that he has taken the initiative for a letter – it is quite dry, then, he was pushed on by the opposition for six months, and he sent it on 15 January 2014. And why January 15? Well, because it was the day before the treatment of the interpellation that Lise Christoffersen had traveled to finally get a little further in a very slow state council. Unlike our Council of State, the Danish Minister of Transport – it is a Minister of Transport with action – has carried out investigations in a thorough manner and has come to some of the same conclusion as in the book «Fritt Fall». That is why he is taking initiatives towards the EU, and therefore he says that those responsible for safety on board should be employed in the company for which they actually work. This is why he addresses the concerns that there are different regulations in different ports and different places. So there is a Council of States that is taking seriously the serious developments that are now taking place in international aviation, and which is taking the initiative to do something about it, as opposed to our Council of State in this area. For our part in the Workers' Party, we are pleased with fair competition, but we are opposed to social dumping, and to the extent that labour-life-criminalism in general and weakened environmental standards, that is why we are concerned about this issue. We are pleased that fair competition in aviation provides more reasonable air tickets, but we do not want a simple aviation industry. If we don't do anything soon, I guess that's where we end up, and unfortunately it looks like we have to put our trust in the Danish Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1916	Aviation is an essential part of our transport system. It binds Norway together and makes travel from Norway to other countries better than ever. Increased supply and sharp price reductions have made aviation available to the wider population. It's just a good thing. Furthermore, it is important to stress, as the Council of State did, that the aviation industry is an important industry for Norway, with a significant number of jobs throughout the country. The Senterpartiet wants us to have a Norwegian aviation industry and Norwegian employees on the planes in the future, so one has to weigh this against a pressure on the lowest possible wages and minimum regulation, because it may be too cheap to fly. One must be able to stand up to the pressure of individual companies that want special arrangements. That's what the previous government did when it was subjected to a violent pressure from Norwegian to change the foreign regulations. An elected representative first took account of pay and working conditions and said no to such a change. The threats from Norwegian were partially put into practice; it turned out that it was not that easy to get through to the company. It was this process that triggered the work on the message that has now been given the title of the globalisation message. This investigation was to be completed in the autumn of 2013. I understand that there are complex issues, but there is a need for a quick knowledge of which law options apply, to whom taxes and taxes are to be paid, so it is important that the work is completed. I think it has to end up in a big message, because it will be necessary to make some tough choices. If a person is to take care of safety, there must be a counter-pulsification of responsibility and pressure on pay and working conditions, and then it is wise to have a anchor in the Stortinget. At the same time, it is important that the Norwegian plays of EASA are anchored at political level. The Central Party wants a Norwegian aviation industry, we want Norwegian pilots and Norwegian employees in aviation, and I hope that the Council of State not only sends letters to the EU, but also takes initiatives with the Nordic aviation family to promote common Nordic requirements, to ensure that we also have decent terms of pay and work in aviation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1927	This should really be a debate on the proposal that a person should want a notification to the Stortinget. Then it becomes a little special to go into detail about wages, working conditions, safety and not security, etc., because we're all going to discuss that, and we're all concerned about that. Today we are dealing with the draft document 8, which is available, and it is about getting a message to the Stortinget. Now both the Council of State and others have explained that something will happen, and that you need to acquire enough knowledge to do it right. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, referred to the book «Freefall». I've read that book from the first page to the last page. I would also say that I know the industry pretty well after 30 years in this area. Then it almost becomes too thin just to focus on safety. We have an aviation authority that is responsible, we have others who are responsible, and making people anxious about which airlines they're going to choose, I don't think we as politicians or the industry that's served as such. I think the representative Pollestad was very nuanced and had a good idea to see this in the context. I am convinced that in this Chamber we will land on something that is good for both the Norwegian and the international industry in this area. We have to deal with this together. I think that, after all, we are not so dissenting, but then we must not just focus on some pieces that we have now done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1938	As the rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking you for the debate. I conclude that although a positive decision is not taken today on a notification, there is a promise from the Minister that there will be a notification to the Stortinget, and we are pleased with that. So I agree that it's with aviation safety, dragging that card, you have to be careful with the users. Of course, there's something you shouldn't do in time and out of time. But at least in my post I showed that the card was drawn by the employees themselves and by those who represented them, and I think you have to take it seriously when you choose to use that designation. Then it's because you want that attention – and as they remember, those who got the letter, that letter started with the following: «Pan-pan, pan-pan, pan-pan». It is an international radio call where an aircraft reports an abnormal and potentially dangerous situation and needs the attention of the listener. That's what they tried to tell us with that marker, that's what they said to us in meetings we've had with them, that's what we've been able to read in that book. And there's a lot more than just aviation safety. It goes on employees' rights, and I'm glad we're also raising it. But I have to say that I am a little disappointed that the minister will not use the time on that topic this time of debate on social dumping and that part.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1945	I was a little uncertain as to whether I should ask for the word, but when the representative Michaelsen says it's a pleasure to talk about aviation safety, it's not something I, the employees, or the book 'Fritt Fall' have as the only focus on the matter we're now discussing. It is a report produced by the University of Ghent in Belgium on behalf of the European Commission, which points to lower safety as a result of the new forms of employment used by many in aviation. It would be a pleasure to deny the fact. With regard to the book «Fritt Fall», which I also recommend to the Council of State to read, it is about much more than that – it is quite right. However, the common denominator for this is very much summed up in the Danish Transport Minister’s initiative towards the EU in order to launch actions in an industry that is now under attack, one of which may have a lower impact on aviation safety. This is an overall approach adopted by the Danish Minister for Transport. What I'm missing is that we should have a Minister of Transport who took care of the important social issues in the same way that the Danish Minister of Transport does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1952	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1966	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1973	I would like to start by thanking the Committee on Work and the proposers for the initiative. There has been a clean and orderly process, and although the Committee did not organise a hearing, on the initiative of the Progress Party, it was invited to a hearing where interested parties were given the opportunity to make their views known and where several parties were present with good questions and input. There has been a large increase in the number of mobile home tourists in Norway in recent years, and increased wealth combined with higher standards on mobile homes has made mobile homes more attractive. We've seen a huge increase in the sales of cars over a long time, and many seem to like the freedom it gives to have a cabin on wheels. Unfortunately, in current legislation there are unnaturally strict differences between small and large mobile homes and, therefore, it seems important to facilitate non-discrimination. The fact that an overall transport committee now points out that it wants to change the framework conditions for cars in Norway is not at all something that was likely to happen. The progress batch repeatedly raised issues relating to periodic vehicle checks, speed limits and bomb charges for cars and other types of vehicles while we were in opposition, without hearing. We have e.g. Challenged several transport ministers to the unfairness of the need for over 3.5 tonnes of mobile homes to be subject to EU controls each year. Everyone understands that regular checks on heavier vehicles are good, but for many it seems very unreasonable to have to check the van every year, which may go 8 000 km in a year, while private cars can go 40000 km a year without checking them. This shows that there is no road safety that requires annual checks on mobile homes above 3,5 tonnes. We have been working on vehicle technical issues both in the opposition and in the position, and now we have a Minister of Transport who has informed the Committee that he is well-informed about simplifications that will benefit not only residents, but also owners of other cars over 3.5 tonnes, for example. within the ambulatory environment. I record that some representatives have been out in the media and tried to create the impression that if you only join any decisions today, these will apply almost immediately, and that the Progress Party is now training the case. However, most of the work to be done requires regulatory changes, and there are time-consuming processes. The government has been working on this since the government change, but when there were no amendments or drafts for consultation clearly from the red-green government, it is clear that it requires a little extra work. The Committee has therefore said that we are pleased that general simplifications in the vehicle regulation have the interest of the Council of State, and we have said that we are pleased with the initiative of the Council of State to review the legislation with a view to putting solutions in place during the autumn. It is clear that the red-green parties were not particularly concerned with this issue when they themselves were in position, but it is gratifying to see that in the opposition they now want simplifications. However, it is a little sad that a trusted owner of a mobile home in the Workers' Party in Northernland had to do it to arouse the interest of the Workers' Party – in an interview with Bobilworld on 30 March 2015, this is what Kjell-Idar Juvik said happened. Furthermore, he says that such suggestions require someone to lift them up. Well, the Progress Party has repeatedly raised these kinds of issues, but the Workers' Party has always answered to turn the deaf ear to, without showing any interest in taking action. So as soon as a member of their own takes up the problem, it becomes more topical. That's so I'm tempted to quote from the book Animal Farm, that "all animals are equal, but some are similar to others." What may be symptomatic of the red-green work is that even after the Council of State, in the form of a letter to the Committee, has notified that his work also includes other types of vehicles, such as the pickup and the SUV, not just mobile homes, the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Party cannot be interpreted as other than an instruction to the Council of State to restrict their work to exclusively mobile homes. Why don't I know, but maybe it's because no trust voter in the Workers' Party has said that the issue also applies to them. I find that to be very regrettable, but it is good news for the mobile home population that we now have a wide gap in the Stortingen to get simplifications, and for other car enthusiasts, among other things. In the Amcar environment, it is good to know that you have a Minister of Transport, a government and a majority who think a little wider, and who want simplifications to benefit as much as possible. In conclusion, I would like to say that I welcome the involvement of the Council of State in the matter, I am pleased that an overall committee now supports the work of the Council of State and therefore wants simplifications, and I am looking forward to him presenting the final solutions and simplifications in good time before the next mobile home season.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e1996	There has been a large increase in the number of mobile homes in Norway in recent years. In our opinion, today's legislation makes unnatural differences between small and large mobile homes. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to facilitate non-discrimination and to send a signal that we want to welcome this type of tourism. That is correct, as has been said: the case started with an enquiry on unfair discrimination against periodic vehicle checks, PKK, for my part in the case of mobile homes above 3,5 tonnes. As we know, today's rules are so that they are treated equally to large cars of more than 3.5 tons. Once you're above that limit, you have to go into annual control, as opposed to a mobile home under 3.5 tons, which has to be every two years. This means that a mobile home that you may drive up to 5000 to 10000 km per year is treated equally with a vehicle train that may run 100000 to 200000 km per year. On the basis of this enquiry, I asked the Minister questions about this 29 October 2014 and in his reply, the Council of State says that he will review it again, and that there is an opening up to it in the legislation. But I record that little has happened from the minister's side before now. But this event led to both Norsk Bobil and Caravan Club and Norsk Bobil Association taking an interest in this initiative from the Workers' Party and asking for meetings with the Workers' Party's transport fraction. These meetings can be briefly explained in the proposals under consideration today. The text proposed by the Labour Party in the draft representative is as follows: Simplified EU control: The government asks the government to make changes for periodic vehicle checks for all mobile homes of up to 7,5 tonnes, so that they are treated equally with passenger cars. Increased speed limit: the size requests the government to increase the permitted speed limit for all mobile homes above 3,5 tonnes up to 7,5 tonnes, from today's 80 km/h to 100 km/h, where speed is permitted. Lower toll charge: the government asks to change the toll for all mobile homes up to 7.5 tonnes, so that these are treated equally with passenger cars and mobile homes below 3.5 tonnes. – Today there is a three to four difference between these two classes. We also ask that you look at lower ferry prices, so that you can see an opportunity to get equal treatment for ferry fares. Finally, together with the Centre Party, we have also proposed to look at the possibility of possibly changing the category of driving licences – raising the current limit of 3.5 tonnes to 4.25 tonnes in order to meet the existing fleet. Today, the Storting could have made positive decisions on these orders, but the proposals available have only received support from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the Committee. I find that disappointing, because the government parties with the Progress Party have expressed a great deal of agreement with the proposals. They did so last time from the pulpit in order to try to ridicule the fact that the Workers' Party is still engaged in politics. The reason why they're now trying to make it like they're in agreement without voting for it is because you can just wonder. I record that the government parties neither accepted the proposals of the Workers' Party nor supported our comments in the Committee. It would have been desirable for us to sign this out before this year's mobile home season puts in too full, but now the householders have to lubricate with patience before they get a clarification, i.e. what the majority of the Grand Duchy decides for. I also register that the Council of State yesterday sent out a press release in which he agrees with the Workers' Party – at least in four of the five proposals – but sells it as its proposal without mentioning that the matter is being dealt with in Stortinget today. That's what I think is remarkable by a government council. It is great that the Council of State agrees with the Labour Party, it is only a pity that his representatives in the Committee do not follow him and support our proposals that are under consideration today. I then assume that I interpret his press release correctly. I also see that the rapporteur, Roy Steffensen of the Progress Party, has sold out in the media that there is an overall committee that supports the proposals. Then I think it's strange that you don't show this, either in the comments or by going in on the proposals – or is it perhaps that we get a change today, when we get to voting? In any case, I have hopes that this will lead to changes, so that at least in the long term we will be corrected in these unfairnesses. I see – and hear – that the representative Steffensen is calling for action in the eight years we were in government. Yes, as far as I can see, there are some written questions where the Progress Party has asked for this with PKK. But I can't register having seen any specific issues when it comes to it. I just want to repeat that although the Workers' Party is out of government offices, we intend to continue working with politics every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2040	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2043	I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2048	It's also politics. The representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2053	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Steffensen, for a thorough and thorough review of the matter. Not surprisingly, we like to look at this. So there's no reason for me to spend a long time explaining the same points of view. It is gratifying that with this government we have gained a significant increase in interest in solving many of the vehicle technology challenges we as drivers face in everyday life, including the framework conditions for cars. It's big and small, which in total means a lot too many, and which helps to lighten people's everyday lives most. If we do a little search in the Stortinges database, we will see that the topic of the mobile home has been raised in many questions to all the Ministers for Transport in the previous government. In particular, the then Bård Hoksrud representative was concerned with the topic. I checked a little bit with the periodical vehicle inspection. Questions were raised about it in June 2011 and in June 2013. From this point of view, it is no surprise that the framework conditions for mobile homes are high on the agenda in the department. The question that the representatives of both the Workers' Party and the Centre should ask themselves is why nothing has been done about this in the past. At least there has been no shortage of reminders. So a few words about the suggestions. I am not going to go into them very thoroughly, as it is well explained already, both by the President-in-Office and so far in the letter from the Council of State. To the proposal for periodic vehicle inspection: the Road Directorate is already well in the process of evaluating the changes. The Ministry has already undertaken this work and it will be consulted for the autumn. This means that all mobile homes can have the same requirements for control intervals as passenger cars. To the question of increasing the speed limit to 100 km/h for residential cars with a total weight of between 3.5 and 7.5 tonnes: it is a positive proposal, which – once again – the government has already started to work on and where the environmental and safety consequences are assessed. Modification of the toll: Yes, it is a sensible proposal, but it must be seen in the context of the tariff and discount system. And once again, the state road service is, on behalf of the ministry, well in the process of making its assessments, and will present a proposal on how this can be resolved. Ferry tariffs: Yes, the review has been started, the Directorate of Roads is doing its job. There is a complex structure and some simplifications are probably necessary for the use of AutoPASS. The impact of simplified rules will also be clear during the harvest. The latter applies to the category of driving licence for motor vehicles. This is perhaps a somewhat more complicated issue, where we are also bound by a regulatory framework in the EU. For all the proposals, the government is well in the process of implementing them. When we do not vote in favour of the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre, it is not because we disagree – on the contrary – but there is no great point in voting in favour of proposals for changes that the government has already undertaken a long time ago. I think the proposers know that very well. When the representatives from the Workers' Party and the Centre, with the Red-Green Government, were able to wait eight years to solve these challenges, I think they'll be able to do a few more months, so that we can finish the work and both get the necessary assessments and make the necessary decisions. This is just symbolic politics, and in an area where they didn't even deliver when they had the chance. But it is nice that they are now concerned with the framework conditions for mobile homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2076	It could be tempting to say that it is never wrong to meet, because that was what the case-rapporteur started with, that a meeting, a contact, has decided that this proposal came up – so my conclusion could be that. The Committee welcomes the amendment of the framework conditions for mobile homes in Norway by looking at simplifications and correcting obvious distortions of legislation between mobile homes above and below 3,5 tonnes. It has gradually become more of an all-rounder to have a mobile home. It wasn't just a few years ago. Then Germans and other nationalities would like to go through Norway and drive a little slowly, which was perhaps a bit demanding for other drivers in the traffic. Now there are as many, if not more, Norwegian mobile homes, and they are used both summer, winter, autumn and spring. There's something that's changed a lot in a few years. It is important to facilitate increased domestic tourism throughout the country because housing tourism is part of the tourism industry, and through good organisation, and also through the legislative changes that you want here, you can ensure that you actually get even better traffic flow, and that there are more people who take the trip through Norway in a mobile home and stop spending money with us, as we want. Then it was commented that the letter of reply warned that it would also look at regulatory changes for veteran cars and other vehicles in the 3.5 tonnes weight group and upwards. It may well be very positive – we will look at it when it comes – but the proposal that is available here is about cars and legislation for it, and that is what we have taken a stand on at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2089	I would like to thank you for a good debate so far. I think it's very nice when a total staggering now agrees to make improvements for campers, improvements that one just a few years ago didn't want to do. The opposition parties then – the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – wanted to do such things, but there was no majority in the Stortinget for that. Many of these things had not even had to come to Stortinget, because this is about regulatory changes. So it's up to the government if they want to make those changes. We must not have a decision in Stortinget. But that initiative never came from the red-green parties. Therefore this is really a very happy day, I think, because it shows that even the Workers' Party now supports what so many have seen as a problem. I think it's okay if there are internal meetings in the Workers' Party that make the Workers' Party turn around and now is for what they were previously against, yes it's just good. It shows that it's possible to finally go through. There are many people who have worked for a long time for this. I notice that someone here is trying to make this a debate about who was first, because then one should have the credit for it. Yes, we started this work here in October 2013. This was part of what today's majority thought would change. Then there is a discussion about the proposal being promoted, and then I sent out a press release after the proposal. Yeah, that's to show the width of what we're doing. But I can show that I was already on 31 May 2014 at the national meeting of Norsk Bobil and Caravan Club and said that we are now working on reforming the housing and toll policy, and I got the first page of their internal magazine, so it should not be a surprise that the government was doing it. Creating doubt about the changes comes because the Storting does not decide it, by majority, yes, it's completely unreasonable. In the same way, one could indicate that the Promskrittsparteen group met with the mobile home and caravan club on 3–4. March this year on the same themes, before this Document 8 was promoted – not only with the mobile and caravan club, but with NAF, KNA, the Automobiles Association, yes, a lot of different organisations, because this is about more than just mobile homes. This is about a lot of different types of vehicles that are exactly in the grey zone that they weigh a little bit more than 3.5 tons, but then they are treated like a heavy-duty car. We see that as unreasonable, regardless of whether one is a resident tourist from Germany who runs on Norwegian roads, whether one is a Norwegian resident tourist, whether one is a Norwegian craftsman who happens to have a slightly heavy American pickup, or whether one is a family with many children, who has chosen to have a little heavy family car, just over 3.5 tons. That is why I appreciate the fact that the rapporteur says that adopting this now would restrict what the government is doing. We want a broader approach. Point two: One gives the impression that if the Storting had adopted this now, it would come into force tomorrow. The fact is, all these things have to go to the hearing. I also thought a former government party was aware of that. Those hearing papers are now getting ready, precisely because we're going to have it consulted and get it adopted. But then we don't have to go back to the Storting, we're going to change the rules, and then we're going to have to do it. I said in the letter to the committee that in terms of speed limits, we're going to treat cars the same way, regardless of whether they weigh less than 3.5 tons or whether they weigh up to 7.5 tons. We've said we're going to have bomb tariffs that are going to be the same for cars over and under 3.5 tons, and we're also saying that we're working right now on heavy pickups and SUVs. We shall treat camping cars and caravans in the same way as ferries. We're going to have periodic vehicle checks that are going to be the same for cars over and under 3.5 tonnes. All of this has been fixed not only once, in a letter to the Stortinget, not only in press releases, but almost all of the meetings I've had with the people of the campers and caravans, because they've been busy with it long before a working party member took it up with the Workers' Party's big crowd. But nothing is better than that we now stand together and say that this is good. I imagine we're going to do a lot more. We've been working on vehicle engineering things, we've had a lot of meetings with Amcar, with NAF, with KNA, which goes on everything from marker lights on the sides of the cars, which are illegal in some cases, to how to register cars, weight limits and other things. So if the Workers' Party wants to make more proposals to kick in open doors, it's just to read the press release that we sent out at the beginning of April, which listed all the measures we're in for, and which I also hope the Workers' Party has now become for when they're in opposition and have time to meet their voters. But I think this is good. I promise we'll continue to work on this. I take the signals that we now have a unanimous staging behind us in that this is good and important, and it just makes it even more motivating when we can finally make sure that the regulations have changed, and people can enjoy a little easier everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2104	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2108	First of all, I'm glad you seem to get a solution to the things that have been taken up. Then I understand that the minister needs to refer to action, but it's a bit striking that there will be a press release the day before with such an order and not long before, if that's how you've been working on this for almost two years. I also want to say that meeting the voters, we do that every day, we have, and we will still do that, so I think that line from the Advancement Party was unnecessary. But I have a question, and it goes on the order that has now been sent to the Road Directorate, especially in the case of the PKK, which there has been a lot of talk about, but to some extent also about the other. When did this order come from the Council of State? And at least, which is perhaps even more important: When can we expect a clarification, so that the Council of State can present a case – if there is to be a case for the Storting – so that at least one can get a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2115	Let me just clarify. The reason we sent out a press release about cars now a few days ago was simply because the Workers' Party went out into the media and gave the impression that the government and the majority of the population were against these changes. Then we thought that when there are obvious misunderstandings – at least we can try to call it a misunderstanding – it's okay for us to clarify it. However, I can also refer to major suggestions we had in Dagbladet, we have had it at NTB, and we have sent out a press release on the subject before. I can refer to Norsk Bobil and Caravan Club's 2014 newsletter, where they say that these reforms are now under way. Making it a competition for who was first seems a little weird to me. Let's rather be glad that all the parties now support this and not just today's big numbers, who have been working for these things for so long. Since these are regulatory changes, there's not a thing that you have to present to the Storting, but we're going, of course, to brief the Storing about what's going on. It'll be quite natural. What I have announced in previous press releases is that these are things that are going to go out to the hearing this summer, so that we can get it going from approx. 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2122	The background to my question is really just that I wanted to show something, in terms of alleged actions and enforcement. It is correct, as the representative from the place said, that written questions have been asked. I have also registered them when it comes to concrete details about the PKK. I also showed that when I asked my question in October. But in the letter of reply the minister says that he sees some issues in what he has to check out, there is an opportunity to make some changes, but he will put this to the investigation. It is, after all, a long time ago with regard to that particular matter, just to show that you might have expected this to have been resolved already. I think it is a bit striking that this matter comes just as the Workers' Party has taken it up. But my question to that is: When was the order sent with regard to PKK? This is really to show how the minister has worked on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2127	We started this work in October 2013, so this is not a work that we started with because a written question was asked from the Workers' Party. But for us it was nice to get that question because it also confirmed that the Workers' Party was now for what they themselves in government didn't think was important to do. It is true that no proposals were made from the then opposition to all of this in the eight red-green years, but it was enough to see that the then majority, even on written questions, did not show the will to do anything about it. Then a majority had to do that, without the Storting having to deal with the matter. But we took it up, and I mention that when I went out with it at Norsk Bobil and Caravan Club's annual meeting on May 31, 2014, it was because we were working. Then I had something to report. It's mentioned. I understand that here you want to have a debate about who was first out. I think it's nice when the Workers' Party has turned around, that they also become a little happy Christians and are going to confess their message outside, but there have been people who have been concerned about this before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2132	Now I really shouldn't have taken any more lines, but I almost have to do it when it's obvious errors. The minister says the previous government didn't do anything about it. In the last answer to the written questions, it was shown that the EU was looking at the PKK or EU controls in general, the rules there, I know that very well. I'm from the business. There you should look at the whole question of whether this would be required, for example. annual checks on all vehicles and waiting for that clarification. That answer is there, and that answer is known to the minister. However, I am at least recording that in the answer that came up on my written question, there was nothing about driving and working on this matter, but that one would put it for investigation. You now leave it behind, considering who's first or last. I have at least one specific question that I hope the Council of State might be even clearer on. Can we expect these questions, at least the four in the press release, to be clarified and ready for the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2137	I can confirm once again that what we've been working on for 18 months will be realized that what we've been sending out the press, that what we've written about in a letter to Stortinget, will actually be implemented. Something else would have been completely meaningless, that we went around talking about things that we actually didn't intend to do. So I can say why this has taken 18 months. Well, that's because we've spent a lot of time talking to the industry, talking to Amcar, with KNA and others, to get a big picture, so that we don't run on and do one and one regulation change, but that we actually find the whole thing of this, so we get by vehicle across categories and not just take homes first. Then we had to go and do the exact same thing for pickups, and then we had to go and do the same things for SUVs. It would be pointless. In addition, I just remember that in the same 18-19 months we have also worked out and presented a road reform, a railway reform, parking regulations, toll reform, we have submitted new postal laws, we have presented national port strategy, I could mention several things. It has also taken some time in the civil service and in the political leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2146	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2151	I am pleased with this case about changes for mobile homes. This is something we in the Progress Party for many years have wanted to discuss with all parties with positive results. The Progress Party has worked to improve the conditions for cars for many years, including in the previous period, when I was also on the Transport Committee. At that time, it was not possible to get any good results or promise about it, not even close to what we see the Workers' Party wants now. The red-green government sat for eight years – or two periods – without doing anything about this issue despite the fact that we in the Progress Party regularly took it up. That's why, as I said, it's very happy that the red-greens have kind of turned around in this case, and in fact they've done it in a lot of cases in the last two years now when they're in opposition. It looks like there had to be a Right Party government in order for the red-green representatives to dare to stand up for what they think, by now bringing up our proposals. We are delighted that they are both in opposition and that they are promoting our good things from previous years. This shows that we now have a good cooperation climate for good progress parties. As I said, the progress party has always been positive about changing the framework conditions for cars in Norway, and as the minister has said, this is something we have worked for a long time, and he has also announced that it will come to the autumn or by 1 January at the latest. There will also be a number of proposals for changes that relate not only to cars but also to veteran cars and other types of vehicles weighing between 3.5 and 7.5 tonnes. In my opinion, the current rules have gone completely wrong. So I'm happy to see that we get the good solutions in place before the next camper season.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2158	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2172	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2179	Running in drug-induced conditions is a serious road safety problem both nationally and internationally. Data from the State Road Service show that the impact of alcohol or other drugs is a contributing factor in a total of 22 pst. of all road traffic fatalities. The use of alcohol can be an important road safety measure, and measures to increase the use of alcohol have been taken in several contexts in the past, most recently by member of the Transport and Communications Committee, Kjell-Idar Juvik, on written questions in February, as a follow-up to NTP. In the proposal for a discussion here today from Groevan, Bollestad, Tuskedal and Ropstad on alcolocks for passenger transport, we have once again looked at how we can find out the best tools to prevent drug use. The Minister has started work in the Directorate-General for Roads to identify the economic and administrative consequences of any national regulation on alcohol. In the Committee we have pointed out that it is natural to wait for a response from the work that has been started before concluding on the drug use. In addition, we have been concerned that work in the Road Directorate must also be well coordinated with Norwegian participation in the basic work of a possible EU directive relating to alcohol. We see clearly that there is a need for faster implementation of alcohol. As rapporteurs, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I am pleased to be able to point out that we are now a joint committee which is behind a new proposal for decisions which could contribute to the faster and smoother phasing-in of alcohol in vehicles that are being used for passenger transport. Alcohol use is a natural part of a systematic increase in road transport safety. Yet Norway is actually far behind our Nordic neighbours. Sweden currently has 80,000 alcoholics before professional transport, while Norway has 4 000. We see that there is an increasing number of transport companies using alcolocks on their cars on their own initiative. Several county municipalities make demands for the use of alcolocks on the basis of offers for school pillows. This is a positive development, but we see that there is a need for better organisation. For us in the Right, it is important that in the first row there is a positive tool that is being evaluated. In addition, it is very important to ensure that the law does not prevent the option to mount alcoholics. One must also be aware that a supply could lead to increased costs for the transport industry. For this reason, we are particularly concerned that further work is being done in close dialogue with the various actors, and that the introduction of a directive should be well thought out. Nor should a regulation contribute to distortions of competition where Norwegian operators come out worse than their international competitors. It is also important to follow closely the work being done in the EU on alcohol. We need to ensure a well-functioning system around alcolocks, with certification and a good professional policy agreement on how to practice, manage and use it. I'm glad that there's a positive focus on alcohol locks and an increased pressure on the best incentives to increase the use of alcohol. There is an important step closer to safe travel on the road. With this, I propose the setting on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2202	It is likely that drivers with pro-mille will drive between 10000 and 15000 journeys per day only in Norway. Although most trips are made by private individuals, alcoholic beverages in passenger transport will be an important road safety measure. There are already many transport companies using them on their own initiative on their cars, and several county municipalities are demanding the use of alcohol in the specifications for school pillows. This is a positive and also a proper development. Unfortunately, we look at the Public Health Institute’s report ‘Fun in blood tests in drivers suspected of affected driving in 2014’ that the number of drivers showing signs of intoxication other than alcohol is increasing, unfortunately, while the number of blood samples with alcohol is decreasing for third years in a row. To quote the UP boss Øystein Krogstad: We see more often that drivers are drunk without alcohol in the picture, he says. This is alarming, as these drivers are difficult to take in advance, as an alcolock takes those who are intoxicated with alcohol. So here too, new tools are needed. We in the Progress Party believe that there is a need to look at how best to facilitate the use of alcohol on their vehicles by several actors. After all, a joint committee has now asked for an analysis of how this could possibly be implemented on a broader basis than is the case today. We do not want state requirements and directives where we can also look at new instruments and measures. Perhaps it could have been an idea to use carrots in terms of financial relief for transport companies that introduce this voluntary. In any case, it is essential for us to consider what the EU is down to, and then to assess what needs to be done in Norway in order to achieve the desired implementation. Therefore, it is also important for us to use carrots and not whips, how positive instruments must be considered to facilitate the voluntary choice of installation of alkolocks. In addition, it is important to ensure that the law does not prevent the choice to install alcolocks, which the case-rapporteur also pointed out. For us, a system of mandatory regulation by the state team is of little relevance today, as this could lead to increased costs for the Norwegian transport industry, where this is not further clarified. Competitive measures which are negative for the Norwegian industry and which discriminate between the different actors are less fortunate. We are concerned that further work is being done in close dialogue with the various actors. We are very pleased that this work has now progressed – a positive focus on alcohol locks and which incentives will best increase use. This is an important step closer to safe driving on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2213	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, who has handled this in an excellent way in the Committee. As you can also see, this led to an overall proposal for a vote. I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party and the representatives who have promoted the proposal. The requirement for an alcolock has been addressed in several contexts in the past. In the context of the national transport plan adopted in summer 2013, i.e. for approx. two years ago, the majority – consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party – asked the government to include provisions on alcohol in school buses in regulations. Today's rise followed this with a majority comment in the budgetary position for 2015, and I would like to quote it: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left, further refer to the decision of the Stortinget of June 2013, where the Stortinget asked the Government to consider including provisions on alcohol in school buses in the ‘regulation on the protection of students with disabilities’. The majority have noticed that there are currently different practices in the counties and call on the government to assess and take action in this matter.» I would like to refer to my question to the Minister on 4 February this year, and the answer from the Council of State, where he writes that he will launch an investigation to get a better overview of how a demand for alcohol in school buses will turn out, both the economic and the administrative consequences of such regulation. This shows that there is a great deal of political consensus – but perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party – about using alcohol to reduce driving in a drug-affected state, at least on what is required; the volunteer line is already there. They will also – it should be recorded by the proposers – await the EU. It is not in the motion for a resolution. We have seen cases where bus drivers have been taken for per mille driving. In the last edition of the MA magazine we can read about a school bus that was stopped by the bus full of school students, where the driver had a prom of 2. We can all imagine what could have happened in such a situation. In the same magazine, we can also read that as many as 130 000 — perhaps 140 000 — are running around the drug-induced daily on Norwegian roads, and this is where, as has been rightly said, both alcohol, drugs and very many different drugs. Russ-affected driving is a significant road safety problem and, as we can also read in the response letter from the Council of State dated 29 April, depth studies from the State Road Administration show that drugs are a contributing factor in 22 p.m. of all fatal collisions, i.e. where the outcome is death. The survey section of the Stortinge has surveyed the status of the counties on the number of people who have alkolocks in the school buses. The overview shows that there are large differences around the counties. East-Agder, Oppland, South-Trondelag, Troms, Vestfold and Østfold are the county municipalities that have reached the highest level in the introduction of alcohol in school buses — or in the case of tenders. Eight of the counties are entitled to alcohol locks today or to new tenders under way. This shows that only half of the counties have introduced alcohol in full or in part and have requirements for new tenders. This shows that voluntary phase-in is not sufficient, but that this needs to be included in the regulation, so that all schoolchildren in Norway have the same safety requirements. France and Finland are currently demanding alcohol in school buses, and already in 2011 they had 85pst. by all municipalities in Sweden demand alcolocks in school buses. We are also familiar with the work being done in the EU on alcohol. The working party agrees to extend the ongoing work of investigating the school-school action to cover all passenger transport for remuneration. We believe that it is important to obtain benefits, costs and controls from the introduction of alcolocks for all passenger traffic for remuneration, as well as how to handle non-resident vehicles operating in Norway. We are also positive about considering transitional arrangements and/or incentives to ensure a quick and smooth phase-in of an alcolock in the vehicles that are subject to the regulation change related to an alcolock, if it is determined. We support the proposal for a decision and expect the government to bring a case to the Grand Duchy for the autumn, as it says in the proposal for a decision of an overall committee. I stress once again that this means waiting for the report that is going on internally, with the Minister, but that does not mean waiting for the completion of the EU's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2242	Let me first thank the rapporteur for the good work and an overall committee to support this important road safety measure. Per mille driving is one of the most important risk factors in road traffic in this country. Freedom from traffic noise is the freedom to move safely in traffic. About a quarter of all killed drivers had pro-mille in their blood. Traditional measures against pro-mille driving, such as police control and information activities, are good measures, but that alone is not enough. The Christian People's Party has therefore considered that there is a need for more instruments to reduce the volume of pro-mille driving. Alkolock know we can be an effective method of removing alcohol-induced drivers from traffic. Alcohol is also an important prevention measure. Today, collective societies can choose to install alcoholics themselves and use them in competition with other companies by guaranteeing that they deliver non-alcoholic beverages. Some states – as has already been said – are already demanding alcohol in connection with the municipal purchase of school transport services. However, there are different practices in the counties in terms of alcohol requirements in relation to both school and general public transport. In the Agder counties, from which I come, are alcolocks during implementation. Troms introduced alcolå requirements already in 2012. Several other bus companies in the country, such as Netbuss and TIMExpressen have implemented alcolocks in parts of the fleet and have decided to implement alcolocks in the other. Alkolock is now a well-tested technology. The Christian People's Party believes the time is therefore ripe to take new steps. We believe that it is now appropriate to introduce requirements on alcoholic beverages in buses and taxis, and indeed simply in all road vehicles operating passenger transport for remuneration. The results of the test scheme with alcohol are promising. Alcolock provides increased safety for all on the road and is an important signal from social partners that road safety is being taken seriously. An evaluation carried out by the Swedish Road Agency on behalf of the Swedish Institute of Transport Economics shows that the Swedish pilot scheme had a long-lasting effect, unless per mill drive and fewer traffic accidents among the participants in the project, cf. ‘Alcolock tests in Sweden’. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the organisations that have been working on this proposal today, namely MA and Alkolock for motor vehicles, who have been doing their best to convince us of the need to introduce alkolocks on buses and taxis. We need that kind of organization in our work as well. The issue of alcohol has been a subject on the political agenda for a long time. In this context, reference may be made to the treatment of the Stortingen by the current National Transport Plan for 2010–2019, where the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party considered that the requirement for alcolocks on buses would be an important measure in relation to Barna's transport plan. Three of these parties – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – asked the government to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner regarding any ban on alcolocks. The majority of the Committee, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, pointed to the decision taken by the Stortinget in June 2013, when the Stortinget government considered including provisions on alcohol in school buses in the regulation on the protection of school students entitled to skyscrapers. The majority of the Committee on Transport and Communications pointed out that ‘there are currently different practices in the counties’ and called for the ‘evaluation and action of the government’ in the case. We are aware that work is under way in the Directorate-General for Roads on the economic and administrative consequences of a national system of alcohol. There is also a very promising work under the direction of the EU, which prepares for the introduction of alcohol in selected vehicle categories in EU countries. It is therefore time to ask the government to submit proposals for the introduction of alcolocks and how best to phase in. The time when this will happen will be when the work of the Road Directorate is available. We are aware that a national requirement for alcoholic beverages will entail an additional cost for the public companies and for the taxi industry. Therefore, transitional arrangements and state incentive schemes may need to be assessed in order to ensure the rapid and smooth phasing-in of alkolocks in the vehicles subject to the regulatory change. We believe that the time is now ripe for a national system that can ensure the introduction of alcohol in all buses, taxis and other road vehicles operating passenger transport for remuneration. This is no less than saving lives in traffic and contributing to the most secure transport for all passengers on buses and taxis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2272	It's true that a lot of people have been involved, that this is a matter that it's been working on across-the-board for quite a number of years. Some of the bus companies that transport school students have put it in place. That's very good. Driving in a drug-induced state is a serious road safety problem, both nationally and internationally. There is a need to take measures to prevent more people from going on drugs. It is that an alcolock will not solve all kinds of drug problems. There might be other types of measuring instrument that need to be placed on a larger scale to get there. However, it is an important measure to reduce the risk of alcohol-induced driving. As has been said, several county councils today demand that only alcolocked vehicles be used for school pillows. This has been a positive experience. There are several transport companies that also use this tool today. From the Central Party we see that if we end up in a national ban on alcohol in all transport transport that transports people, it can lead to an additional cost for both the collective and the taxi industry. I also said that there was a problem raised by the taxi association that one must be sure that this technology is working, and that one does not get into a situation where one is not sure. Therefore, it is important that we wait for the work to be done in the Directorate-General for Roads before finally considering how this can be phased in. I agree with the previous speaker, who pointed out that we need to use tools to help put it in place, so that the economic aspect does not become too difficult to bear for transport companies – perhaps the taxi industry in particular. The Centre Party shall join in the proposals now submitted by a Joint Committee. Like several others, I think it is time to thank the case rapporteur for the job of stitching together a proposal that everyone could go for. It strengthens the matter further. That is why it is a unanimous committee that supports what is being promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2285	I would like to thank the author of the proposal for a good proposal and the rapporteur for a good work on the matter. We want road safety to be at a level that minimises accidents and, in particular, minimises accidents involving injuries and deaths. Statistics show that the risk of accidents increases significantly when the driver is affected by drugs. Those engaged in passenger services for remuneration have a particularly high responsibility for the safety of passengers. The most effective measure to prevent drivers from being driven in an alcohol-induced condition is the installation of an alcohol lock on the vehicle. It is the most effective measure to prevent this. The proposal we are discussing today concerns the introduction of mandatory requirements for the installation of alcohol in vehicles on the road carrying out passenger transport for remuneration, and such an introduction supports the Left, as the rest of the Committee also does. Drivers operating in return for remuneration, either in their own industry or as employees, shall be fit to drive the vehicle. Although there are clear provisions on mandatory abstinence, we know that someone chooses to sit behind the steering wheel in a drunken state. This can happen because they are not aware that they are still affected or because they simply do not take into account that they have taken drugs. Since the risk of accidents is greater when the driver is affected by drug use, it is particularly important that drug-affected drivers do not drive. Many purchasers of transport services today require the installation of an alcohol pad in the vehicles to be used. This is an incentive for some carriers to install alcohol locks in the vehicles, but still more should get it installed, and preferably all. Therefore, a requirement is the road to make this happen more quickly and passengers are even more confident that they will be carried in a vehicle with a driver that is not affected by alcohol. Municipalities making tenders have the possibility to claim alcoholic beverages and should avail themselves of that possibility. In order to prevent a competitive disadvantage from being fitted with an alcohol pad, it is important that the legislation is uniform for all and that the system is not competitive. Therefore, it is important that future legislation takes this into account — a regulatory framework that we hope will be put in place quickly. Therefore, until all have been fitted with an alcohol pad, there must be measures to ensure that there is equal competition between operators with and without an alcohol pad. Alcolocks have been shown to cause neither delays nor failure of buses during the tests on the bus. Drivers are quickly familiar with the use, and therefore there is a measure that works as intended without causing serious inconvenience. In order to help ensure that passengers taking a bus or taxi are assured that drivers do not drive in a degraded mode, in the Left, it is reasonable that vehicles used for the carriage of passengers for remuneration are fitted with an alcohol lock. All indications suggest that this can help reduce the number of accidents. Once again, I would like to thank the author of the motion for a resolution for promoting this proposal, and not least the rapporteur for drawing a unanimous committee until the end of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2306	Safe roads are important to us. Being able to move and knowing that the risk of something happening is minimal, I think it's important. All of us who have lost someone in traffic know how heavy and sad it can be. Each accident is a tragedy in itself. It's a priority work for this government, but I'm sure it was just as priority for the previous government, and the previous before that, to get safer traffic on the roads. For us, it is both about improving the infrastructure, getting safer vehicles and better driving skills. Road maintenance has been part of what we have prioritised because it provides better infrastructure, and we have seen that in the year that has passed, we have established three times more reinforced middle parts than what was planned. We also know that there are measures that have a very good impact on road safety. But if the drivers of the vehicles are not qualified, or are sober, we also know that there is a great accident risk. About 22 pst. of the fatal accidents occurring in traffic, intoxication is a contributing factor in the occurrence of accidents. Russ finds one in many forms. Some of them are easy to measure, like alcohol, but some of them are also difficult to measure, like pill use and other. We have in our work new regulations that will include several types of tablets and pills within the drug category, so it can be possible to act against them. In the case of alcohol, we know that there is a great abuse in some people. Alkolock is a way to secure society against people like that running in the rush state. I would therefore like to entrust the Directorate of Roads with the task of assessing the economic and administrative implications of the proposal to introduce alcohol requirements in all passenger transport services in return for remuneration, in line with the current leadership of the Committee. However, let me say that the mission, as it now exists, is considerably wider than the work that the Directorate of Roads has been working on. What they've done so far has been the introduction of alcohol in school pillows with buses. Now you also include all passenger transport. That also means all taxis. This means that the Road Directorate has already informed us that it will take a little longer than what we had otherwise planned, simply because it is a much broader perspective. I can therefore not guarantee that we will be finished in the autumn of 2015, as planned, but it will take place as soon as realistically feasible. It is important that we have the quality of that work, so that the Stortinget gets a delivery in line with the decisions that you now make. The Committee also calls on the government to ensure that work is well coordinated with Norwegian participation in the ongoing work on the basis of any EU directive relating to alcohol. We're positive that we get a general code that makes a device delivery here that's easy to deal with, because some of the things that are about doing when we're asked to do this, unlike when it's voluntary, is that we have to be able to punish those who haven't used it, or who use it wrong. This means that a person must have much greater monitoring and documentation of, for example: calibration and supervision, technical requirements, the way in which regulation and regulation are to be regulated, the type of vehicle which is actually to be used, the place where one is to set the limit and the way in which one is to be sanctioned in the event of a breach. I'm going to make sure that this work is done as quickly and efficiently as possible, but there are some complex aspects here -- not necessarily complex, but all things need a delimitation, and we have to make sure that it is put in place. And once again, if we had made the EU produce a code that means that all producers are dealing with something similar to the system at the bottom, it would simplify implementation, not just in Norway, but in all other countries. So what we also have to take into account here is that when we put this requirement in buses, we will have to have an approach where foreign buses coming to Norway also have to deal with that legislation. It's also a complication, but not an impossible factor in this. The overall thing is that we get increased road safety for a relatively reasonable amount of money. One has done a diet-benefit assessment, and to the extent that a cynical can appreciate traffic killers, one sees that this is an economic response, and there is no reason for us to hold back. I am pleased that the Storting is so clear in the order they have given, and that we are going to start work and make sure that this is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2324	The demand for alcohol, especially in the context of school transport, has been addressed in several contexts in the past, as I also mentioned in my article. It is also the case that all the parties have taken a positive stand for this, with the exception of the Advance Party. It shows that there is a great deal of political consensus – as said, with the exception of the Minister’s party – about using alcohol to reduce driving in a drug-affected state, at least an injunction. What's the reason why the Progress Party won't use the instruments that you know have an effect on, you might wonder, but we see this in terms of no to several distance ATMs, which you know have a reduction effect of up to 50 pst. I also believe that it is clear that the voluntary line is not enough, and my question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State in favour of introducing an alcohol requirement in school buses at least, and, where appropriate, in all vehicles engaged in passenger chartering for remuneration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2330	The size is now adopting this – we can understand that we are going to implement it. Something else would have been pointless for a government council. I think I see a continuous trend in today's three debates to create artificial conflicts that almost do not exist. We saw that in the first debate, on aviation and safety, we noticed that in the debate on a mobile home, where there was a debate about who was the first to mention the topic, although I can document it on paper, and we see that in this case. During the previous ageing period, an overall opposition proposed to look at alcolocks in relation to the transport of children. The Progress Party was in favour of this proposal, and what we are trying to create now – that the Progress Party is going against it in any context – is simply not right. At the same time, there are some complications here that I think it is important to bring with me, and that I would like to point out is about privacy considerations. But it is also about weighing things up against each other, and here the conclusion is quite clear – that in this situation we believe that the benefits of using alcohol are greater than the disadvantages. Then it's natural that we have a unanimous big deal that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2339	The proposal today asks for a unanimous investigation and for the matter to be brought back to the autumn, but it is quite clear that the Progress Party will not be on a mandatory line, as has been said in the debate today, by the representative Åse Michaelsen. They still want carrots and a volunteer line. I understand that the Minister has to deal with the decision of the Stortinge. I also record that there is a great deal of consensus in this room about introducing alcoholics at least in all school-children's traffic, and then you'll look at the other. When it comes to progress, I understand that it takes longer to expand the investigation. Has the Minister assessed progress in sharing this in two phases – that one can decide on it with school buses first, and then, if necessary, in Phase 2 take a further extension?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2348	We can start dividing things into two phases, but I don't think we're going to get any faster in terms of that reason. I think it's very important that we get a whole, not a piecely and divided, approach here. There aren't many months of difference, but there might be a few months to talk about. So I would just like to mention that road safety has a very high priority for this government and today's majority. It is also presented in the State Road Administration’s 2014 annual report. With the budget presented by the red-green government in 2014, statisticalally estimated that the measures that were there would reduce the number of people seriously injured and killed by around eight people. After today's majority had increased the stake in maintenance, it was increased to eleven, i.e. almost 50 pst. increase. Discussing which measures are best, we can do, and that makes sense. But giving the impression that if someone doesn't support one's own initiative, they're against road safety in general, that gives a pretty meaningless debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2357	For the purposes of point (b), the following definitions shall apply: 3 in the resolution's proposal for I, which is adopted today, we ask that ‘the government also assess the need for transitional arrangements or state incentive schemes to ensure the rapid and smooth phasing-in of alcoves in those vehicles that will be subject to a regulatory change linked to alcoves’. It can – as I was a little bit involved in my post – lead to an additional cost for both public society and not least the taxi industry, and that is why it is a little important, I think, that we also assess it. How does the Council of State feel about helping to solve some of the challenges — perhaps highlighted by the taxi industry in particular — that such a requirement entails, by contributing with transitional arrangements and perhaps a little incentive, in order to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2364	There is no doubt that requiring such measures as the Storting Act now adopts also has a cost. If one estimates that each of the alcolocks costs about NOK 10,000 and that there are about 25 000 buses and taxis, that means that one imposes a cost on the transport industry of about 250 million. kr. Whether the Storting believes this is something for which the industry itself will take the cost, or whether a person wants to adopt money for this in the next year's government budget, is a priority The Storing does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2369	I understand that the Storting asks the government to assess it, precisely because you want to get a solution, but at the same time you want a flexibility with regard to the phase-in of it, and that no one is going to be hit violently hard. And as the Council of State said in its contribution, as I think was very good and positive, it is a good measure, and then it is natural that one also looks at how to get to the phase-in as smoothly as possible and in such a safe way that the companies – whether we are talking about the public sector or the taxi industry – are assured that it is a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2374	The government will make that assessment when we present our budget. There are several factors that you can consider here. One is the cost to the actors. At the same time, we know that some actors have already taken that cost voluntarily, and then they will be able to see it as unreasonable that they have taken the cost of 100 pst. even, while others, who were not early out, are to be covered in full or in part by the State. There are such assessments of what a person experiences as being fair between the actors versus what total it has in the budget for all other good purposes, one must do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2379	I am thinking in particular, perhaps, that during the examination in the Committee they are asking to evaluate the taxi industry as well. There's not this phase in, as it is in school buses in some states. In that case, it might have been important to have looked at it specifically if you conclude that you need to have a national requirement for the taxi industry as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2384	In that case, I take that view with me in the discussion we must have in the government. It won't be natural for me to give a full assessment now, but I see what the Storting decides, and we obviously relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2389	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2392	Let me make it clear: the advance party is too alcoholic. Let's do it. I find it unreasonable when it is now designed something that the propulsion party is not too alcoholic. That is not really what we are discussing. What we're discussing is, how are we going to get that in place? We might have different approaches to that. I want to refer to something I said in my post earlier, and I repeat -- here it says, and I said it instead: ‘A system of mandatory regulation by the State is of little relevance to us today, as this could lead to increased costs for the Norwegian transport industry where it has not been clarified.’ That's what I said before. Therefore, I would like to point out again that the Progress Party is too alcoholic, precisely because it works. But we also see that we might have a different view of the way there. We think to a much greater extent that there must be opportunities to choose it on a voluntary basis. And if the evaluation and assessment from the Council of State finds that it is not possible, then we will take a decision on it. The goal is the same for us as for others here, but we want carrots first of all instead of whips. We believe that the individual bus company, the individual transport company, sees itself well served to introduce alcohol locks. Then from the government we have to fix it – with carrots and not whips.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2405	As a case spokesman, I will first be allowed to remind you that there is a joint committee behind this decision. The current distribution has been extended by the Minister to cover all passenger services for remuneration. That's good, and that's important. The Committee's position is to await the conclusion when it comes to action, until the internal report is in place, and when it concerns work in the EU, it has to be closely followed. The process is actually under way, and tomorrow there will be a meeting of the European Parliament with the Norwegian participant. It is interesting and important that Norway is involved in the impact of both the certification and the contract organisation. I look forward very much to the results of the work we have done in the Directorate of Roads, and not least to the government making a proposal on how alcohol can best be phased into driving gear that operates by road by means of passenger transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2428	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose free debate, but that the change of lines is limited to eight lines with replies after the first post of a member of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2433	This appropriation is intended to cover the annual audit and audit report of the Ministry of Labour for the financial year 2013. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has seen the need for a more comprehensive review of the audit with the Ministry of Labour, and consequently the establishment of this department has been separated and dealt with after the other departments. In its report, the Riksrevision has the following comments for the Ministry for 2013: weaknesses in the management of tips by the Labour Inspectorate, major challenges with the modernisation of ICT in the Labour and Welfare Seat are lacking in the preparation of a new system for the reporting of information on income and employment are missing in the device and progress in the quality work of the performance management of the Labour and Welfare Seat when determining and collecting social security contributions for workers working abroad In its work, the Committee has chosen to focus in particular on the challenges pointed out by the National Audit Office in the context of the modernisation of ICT in the Labour and Welfare Act, hereinafter referred to as Nav. Nav concerns a lot of people in our society. Proper payment to the right person at the right time – yes, that’s an overall goal for Nav. Without the modernisation of ICT systems, which currently consists of more than 300 different subsystems, on the one hand built on different technological platforms, the risk of errors in the calculation and payment of pensions and benefits is increased. The continuation of today's solutions will prevent the establishment from effectively fulfilling its tasks in the future. Moreover, many of the current solutions do not meet the requirements of the Financial Code and the Personal Data Processing Act. It has therefore been a high priority task to modernise Nav's ICT systems that could create a fully-fledged, modern and integrated ICT solution that well supports its processes and tasks. The Committee has held two hearings. The first was held on 28 November 2014 where the issues were to be addressed: What is done to put in place a fully-fledged, modern and integrated ICT solution in Nav? What is the time perspective and realism of the project? What does it take to succeed? What is done to correct the weaknesses pointed out by the National Audit Office in the performance sector? And what is the timetable for further progress? What is done to ensure the correct establishment and collection of social security contributions for workers working abroad? How to make it easier for users to relate to Nav? The second hearing in the case was held in order to further clarify the matter. Information that the price of the ICT modernisation project could be far higher than expected and the media’s mention of the scope of external consultants strongly contributed to the call for a new hearing on 2 February 2015. The consultation covered the following issues: What is done to put in place a fully-fledged and fully integrated ICT solution in Nav, and will this be possible within the originally established financial framework? What is the purpose and experience of the overall use of consultants in Nav internally and externally? What changes have been made to the modernisation of Nav's ICT systems following the closure of the original modernisation programme in terms of contract strategy, the relationship between internal and external competence and risk assessment and quality assurance? Following the consultation, the Committee was also sent the notified external quality assurance report to the Ministry, prepared by Metier AS and Møreforsking AS. The Committee would stress that the modernisation of the Nav ICT systems is an essential and necessary factor in achieving the Nav reform in line with the Storting decision. The Committee considered the criticism of the Riksrevision to be such that, as I said, it was decided to carry out two hearings. This is very unusual, but the Committee considered it necessary in this case to clarify the various aspects of the criticism presented by the Riksrevision in its report, in particular as regards the modernisation of ICT systems and the exceedances and delays in this matter. Because what we're talking about here is not just an update of old systems, but the fact that out-of-date Nav ICT systems can stand in the way of implementing political decisions – decisions that, in turn, can mean a deterioration in the quality of vital services for vulnerable groups of people. Nav operates with very complex ICT systems. Modernisation of computer systems is a very challenging process that requires proper ordering competence, appropriate organisation, clear management requirements and a realistic implementation plan. The Committee has noted that the work was initially grouped into a separate department, in a dedicated modernisation programme. After two years of planning and a short period of implementation, the programme was stopped in its original form. The Committee takes note that it was necessary to stop the original project in order to achieve a reorganisation, but is also of the opinion that this shows that there has been a significant failure in the planning process from the start. The hearing revealed that the main problem was the way the project was organised and managed. Putting a complex ICT reform in a separate department, where the project is not sufficiently integrated into the line, i.e. not being sufficiently involved with the new ICT system on a daily basis, proved to be a major problem. Similarly, when the Ministry’s established quality assurance systems have not functioned properly and clearly before implementation, questions have to be asked about the extent to which the quality assurance system developed by the State for these types of projects really works. Let me add for my own part: In the light of the fact that other demanding ICT projects under state control are not delivered on time and at cost, it is time to ask questions about whether you have good enough quality assurance systems in this area. Should more attention be given to developing ICT skills in the country other than what is happening today, where each department alone has to have the required competence? The ICT modernisation project was initially estimated at 3.3 billion. kr. This estimate was also confirmed by then Nav Director Lystad at the hearing on 28 November 2014, where he among other things. stated that: «the objective of the overall modernisation programme to 3rd billion. kr is fixed, and we are on track with the revised Project 1 plan. [[...]] At the hearing on 2 February 2015, the same Nav Director informed that there could be a risk of an increase in estimates of 1.5 billion. kr. In other words, an increase in estimates was recorded in almost 50 pst in the next two months. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens' Greens' Party, believe that it is highly critical that information of such a nature is made public only after the media and the Storting have brought the matter to light. Here the minority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party, show that the normal procedure is that the Storting is presented with such numbers when decision-making processes in the Government have been carried out. In identifying the causes of the collapse of the original ICT modernisation work, a Joint Committee took note of the following main reasons which emerged during the two hearings: Firstly, insufficient attention was paid to the complexity of the reform. The Committee considers that there is reason to point out that this is about the lack of involvement of the trade unions in Nav. By placing the responsibility for all development work in a separate project organisation, the rest of the Nav organisation was not sufficiently involved. Secondly, it became clear that Nav assumed too much responsibility for the implementation itself. The suppliers were under-responsible for the software they supplied. It was Nav who assumed the primary responsibility. The challenges of organisation and the form of the contract chosen appeared to be significant weaknesses already at the start of the project planning process. Already in the re-planning of Project 1, the pre-reform, other organisation and management measures were taken. There was a stronger involvement of organisations in the development itself, and the supplier was given greater responsibility. The Committee considers that there is reason to take lessons from the experience gained in this area, a lesson which should also benefit other State-owned ICT projects. The Committee is of the opinion that the level of ambition on the part of Nav was very high initially — yes, in fact so high that it was not proportionate to the actual ability to plan and implement the project in its original form. The Committee has also noted that the contract strategy itself has been demanding. There has therefore been a need to make substantial changes. Firstly, this type of project must be able to acquire good and necessary professional skills. With the original contract strategy, a situation was created in which one made itself dependent on one large supplier. This did not give the necessary access to the breadth of professional competence necessary for the implementation of the project. Secondly, the Committee considers that the original contract strategy did not provide the necessary degree of rigour in terms of stability and dependence. The Committee is concerned that the lack of recognition of the problems created by the original contract strategy was recognised so late in the process. There may have been a risk of some significant instability conflicts through the strategy originally adopted by Nav. The fact that one supplier was both a software consultant and a software supplier was not taken into account at an early enough time for potential problems of stability. The Committee has also pointed out in its work that Nav does not appear to have had the necessary ordering competence to implement the planned modernisation project in its original form. On this basis, it is necessary to understand the overall understanding of the complexity of what is to be planned and implemented and the security of the financial framework. Furthermore, the plans are understood by those to be implemented and the contract strategy is appropriate. In the Committee's view, this is a short and well-defined matter of governance, management and organisation, and a primary responsibility for the failure to implement the original modernisation project in its original form must be placed with Nav. Project 1 had to be reorganised and implemented on a different basis from that of the original plans. The Committee is committed to stress that the responsibility for delays in implementation and related estimated cost increases cannot be borne by Nav alone. The State's quality assurance system was obviously not good enough to ensure that the implementation of Project 1 under the original plans occurred as originally planned. The Committee will also refer to the significant amount spent on consultants in recent years, and the Committee questions whether this is the best use of Community funds and whether the costs spent on these services are in line with what Nav has regained knowledge and competence in this project. The Committee refers to the consultation, where it was expressed by both the former and the present State Councils that there is a need to reduce external use of consultants. Following the second consultation, the Committee had access to the external quality assurance report of the modernisation programme of Metier AS and Møreforsking AS. The purpose of this report was to assess whether the modernisation programme should be continued. The Committee considers that there are serious findings identified in the report, and the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party, took note of the conclusions and recommendations of the report, where the modernisation programme in its original form is proposed to date. The justification is demanding complexity and weak implementation of Nav. The Committee's minority, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, point out that the Metier report recommends a continuation because the need for modernisation is great and a full stop would be burdensome. The minority of the Committee, the Right, the Party of Advances and the Centre, further stresses that Project 1 has been delivered within the time and cost framework set in the re-planning process. These members agree that the problems raised in the planning and implementation of Project 1 are critical and that there is a basis for criticising Nav's planning and implementation in the start-up of Project 1. They also refer in particular to the responsibility of the previous government for the planning and implementation of the modernisation programme. I expect that the minority in the committee itself will elaborate their views, but I will briefly highlight some of the key points from the minority. One is concerned with stressing that the estimated cost increases in Project 2 are due to the problems encountered under Project 1, underestimating complexity and costs. In the opinion of the minority, the replanning of Project 1 was absolutely necessary. It was launched by the previous government and implemented by the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs within the time and cost frameworks set for re-planning. The minority assumes that Project 2 will continue to be presented as a separate case to the Stortinget, and that the assessments of the Quality Assurance Officer will be part of the government's basis for further planning, and considers that there is no basis for criticising the current Council of State, as these members assume that the government will follow the ordinary procedure for KS2 before the case is brought. A single committee is concerned that one has come into a situation that could lead to a reduction in the level of ambition, higher costs and further delays. The plans now being used for the further process result in a reduction in the degree of modernisation, as Project 1 was not delivered again, reusable platform. One could be left with a number of individual IT programmes which are not anchored in a new and modern integrated architecture instead of the original modernisation plans. In the quality report of Metier and Møreforsking, the Committee noted that a significant deviation from the initial cost framework has been identified. Compared to the starting point, the estimated deviation is now over 2 billion. kr. The majority of the Committee takes the view that both the current Nav Director and the current State Council held its hearing on 28 November 2014 gave the impression that the estimated cost framework would be maintained. The minority has a different view of what was said and refers to the Council’s opinion during the hearing that ‘we are on a safer footing’ with regard to the 3.3 billion. kr which has been the estimate of the modernisation project. The same minority indicates that only Project 1 has been submitted to the Stortinget, which has been delivered at time and at cost, but with reduced functionality. An overall committee indicates that the deviations from the assumptions of KS1 and KS2 are dramatic. The main objectives of the modernisation programme are now at risk of not being met, which is what an overall committee considers to be very serious and worrying. The Committee considers that the lack of governance and implementation, together with the poor assessment capacity of the complexity of its own organisation, must be given great importance in assessing further plans for modernisation. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that the Council of State has entrusted Nav with excessive responsibility, without having sufficiently addressed the assessments related to the governance, planning and organisation of the reform. The majority are therefore of the opinion that the departure of the Nav Director must be seen as a judgment also on the lack of follow-up by the department. An overall committee considers it essential that further work on ICT modernisation in Nav should learn from the experience of Project 1. The size must be kept continuously informed of the essential conditions surrounding further work. The management of Nav falls within the political governance of the Council of State, and it is therefore the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that there are no new exceedances and delays. The Committee would stress that the Council of State has a separate responsibility to ensure that Nav has an ICT system to meet the needs of the population. It is therefore essential to improve work on renewing ICT systems. But I would also like to say the following, and this applies to both the state council, Nav's management and the staff at the Nav offices around the country: There is a great job in Nav every single day from the employees, and it is not supposed to attach itself to the impression that most of it is wrong in Nav. On the contrary, there is a lot that works well, yes, very well, and a lot has evolved positively in the last few years Nav has worked. In this case, we have had to focus on those aspects of technological development that have become very important for the Nav that we want to have in the future and that are pointed out in the National Audit Office's report. In working on this matter, I have to say that it has become more and more clear to me what the matter is really about. This isn't primarily about making a new technological system work alone, but it's about people, many of them vulnerable groups of people who are totally dependent on the benefits they get from the state for the rest of their lives. It's about these people getting their legitimate benefits – the right amount at the right time. It's about meeting them with the respect and dignity we want to meet all people in our society. Therefore, I would like to stress the importance of succeeding in this work that has been started. Nav services are important for society as a whole and for the individual user. Correct performance in a timely manner; it is a main requirement for Nav. Success in ICT renewal is therefore essential for citizens to receive their rights-based benefits. In this case, in the light of the major and dramatic changes in the assumptions for the ICT renewal project that have taken place along the way, the Committee has chosen to pool itself on a proposal for a decision in the case. It is relatively rare for the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to choose to do so, which also underlines the seriousness of this matter on the part of the Committee. It is essential that we now look at the basis for further work on the strategy for modernising Nav's ICT systems, which describes progress and economic assumptions, as well as a decision-making basis for Project 2, which should describe the content, progress and economic assumptions. I therefore recommend the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2544	I want to start by thanking the case manager for a good job, and I also see his article. Nav shall provide security in our lives. If we lose our job, get sick or go to maternity leave, we can go to Nav and get the help we need. A person should receive sickness benefit or social security or help to find a new job. In Nav all over the country there are many skilled employees who do a very good job of helping people. It's important, and that's their job. In April I visited Nav in Kristiansand and got to see all the good work done there. Here was a separate section for young people, where those who had dropped out of school for various reasons were given the opportunity both for work training and to take up subjects and improve their grades – simply the possibility of a new start. I also met these young people, and they were very clear that this was a good offer. In the headquarters of Nav there were many exciting projects going on to get people out to work, and they had good results. It's good to see. In order for them to be able to work as efficiently as possible in Nav, a modern ICT system is a device. Thus, over many years, Stortinget has pledged large amounts for ICT modernisation. Through the National Audit Office's report, we have seen that ICT systems are working badly. The modernisation program is not completed, and it costs a lot more than the total number of entries. 340 million. kr is lost. In one of the comments from the Riksrevision, it says: ‘Important challenges with the modernisation of ICT in the labour and welfare seat.’ Several years in a row, Document 1 has had comments on the residence of work and welfare. The Committee therefore decided to keep an eye on the matter. On the first, there was so much uncertainty that the Committee decided to have a new hearing. During the second hearing we were told that the department was now waiting for the report from the external quality insurer, Metier, and the committee was to be sent to it. It received the Committee on 15 April. Two days before the hearing on 2 February, we also received the report from the internal quality insurer, A-2. It was ready. But it was actually sent in advance to the department on January 8. It was then known that the control committee would have a new hearing. However, the Committee was only aware through the media that this report was coming. And we got him sent. But it would have been possible to inform the control committee, all the time when a release came on January 8th, and one was fully aware that we would have a new hearing. In the first hearing on 28 November, the Committee was informed that they now had better governance, and that one could assume that within the sums calculated for that time, there would be a target. But it wasn't long before new numbers arrived, and again the committee was informed through the media. On the ring on February 2nd, it was announced that it was 1.5 billion. kr more expensive than that declared on 28 November. This is also referred to in the Committee's comments. The Committee noted: ‘The Committee notes that it is very unclear how much of the funds invested in the original modernisation programme could actually benefit from the further reform process. The Committee refers to the hearing on 28 November 2014 in which then Nav Director Joakim Lystad stated that ‘the objective of the overall modernisation programme is EUR 3.3 billion. crowns are fixed, and we are on track with the revised Project 1 plan. The Committee further points out that in its hearing on 2 February 2015, on questions from Michael Tetzschner, Joakim Lystad confirmed that the statement of 28 November 2014 had to be adjusted and that there could be a risk of a further increase in estimates of 1,5 billion. crowns, compared to the estimates made in 2010 and 2011 for the overall project [[Modernisation programme]] These are big numbers, and it's serious. We must therefore be sure that as we move on with Project 2, the plans and the budget estimate will continue. I wonder why we were not informed about this in the hearing on 28 November. Was it really so that neither Nav nor the department didn't know? So I want to say a little about the consulting in Nav. We were informed by the ring that Nav is using 1.2 billion. kr every year on consultants. It's a lot of money. There are consultants who are not responsible and like e.g. with a contract of up to 800 million. kr to be some kind of "manpower" for Nav. Their mission was to replace people who went over to the modernisation project. Former Nav Director ordered top management support consultants for nearly 100 million. NOK, which was also not responsible. A consulting company has even helped Nav with orders and deliveries. Here it's a problem of stability. It's a challenge with the widespread use of consultants. I have to ask, is this the right use of community money? Are we sure that the competence of its consultants is transferred to Nav? I expect that the use of consultants will be reviewed, and that one will see if one can perhaps assign people who will then become part of the organisation and be responsible, and the competence will lie in Nav. Why does the ICT project have such an aberration? The Committee draws attention to two important points: One is the lack of technical management of the development work by placing the responsibility in a project organisation itself. This organisation was too disconnected from the organisation line. The other relationship is that Nav took on too much responsibility for the implementation itself. Nav chose the contract form, leaving the main responsibility for implementation on its own organisation, while the supplier was little made responsible for the software that was delivered. The lack of professional guidance and the lack of clarity in what to solve, and how ICT could support this, was, in the Committee's view, an important weakness from the outset. The Committee considers that the re-planning of Project 1 in particular: as a consequence, Nav strengthened its scientific leadership in the development process. In April, the control committee received the report from the external quality insurer, Metier. In this report, we can, among other things: read that Metier, i.e. the external quality insurer, is broadly summarized in the report from the internal quality insurer, the report called A-2. In A-2, it says: ‘Project 1 was implemented with significant deviations from the original plans. These deviations include the lack of platform development, the cut-off of functionality, the realisation of the default reform has been carried out on software platforms other than planned, and the solutions lead to technical liabilities. Productivity was low, there has been over-exploitation of funds, interaction between project and line has not worked satisfactorily, the governance model for development projects has been immature, as have parts of the development methodology.» These are strong words from the internal audit, and the external quality assurance claims that they mainly support these assessments. Then it is quite strange that in the hearing the committee was informed by former Managing Director Lystad that Nav did not share all the assessments in the Internal Audit Report, and constituted ICT Director Ingunn Midtun Godal said that, in their view, the A-2 report was made ‘on the wrong basis or with wrong premises’. The external quality insurer recommends that the modernisation project be continued, but they also recommend a precautionary approach, as they believe that Nav's implementation capability is a fundamental risk. But the need for modernisation is great, and a full stop will be burdensome. In order to ensure that the size is safe on the further progress of the project, the Committee has a proposal that the government should issue a case in its own right on the basis of Project 2, which shall describe what is to be delivered, progress and financial resources. Furthermore, we ask for the framework for the wider strategy for modernising the Nav ICT system with regard to progress and economic developments. This has been a long case in the Committee – two hearings, two audit reports, a lot of media. Over time, the Nav Director has left, and a new Director will be appointed. I think the Department and the Council of State will have to follow up and manage the Nav projects better in the future. There should also be a lesson to be learned for all major ICT reforms in the public sector that the professional environment and those who are actually going to use the ICT systems are included and closely involved in the process. In the ears there were many who were inside. Everyone seemed very happy with the effort they had made for Nav. No one could explain why it had gone wrong. Why don't we get it? It is true that ICT in Nav is complex, but it has to be ensured that it is much better to control the projects than it is at present. At least 340 million have been lost. kr, and the new budget estimates state that the ICT project is approaching 2 billion. kr more expensive than pre-filled. So large exceedances are not acceptable. It's the taxpayers and the community's money. Not least, I think of all the people who in a very difficult situation have not got the help they need and are right from Nav, with all the despair and frustration it brings to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2620	I'm not going to make a very long post. I'll be careful to come up with some considerations. First, thank you to the rapporteur for a good and thorough work and thank you to the Committee for two well-performed consultations. Up-to-date ICT systems are an activity-critical factor in most modern organisations. And it is clear that in Nav this becomes further important because the department manages a complex regulation, and because the consequences of errors can be great. System failures may result in life-threatening benefits not being paid to and in need of those entitled to them. We must respect when implementing an ICT project, that there are many things that should not necessarily be the responsibility of the Monitoring Committee. There are both organizational and technical assessments that we should stay away from. Nevertheless, I have to say that it has been a powerful effort to obtain relevant information, both up-to-date information and adequate information, both from the station and from the consultants we have been in for consultation. It has made it more difficult for us to get the best possible basis for making a proper assessment of the case, and that is also why – in part at least – we had to have two hearings. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about how much money was invested in the original modernisation programme, which can actually benefit from further development. In its comments on the hearing on 28 November 2014, the Committee drew attention to the statement made by the then Nav Director. «to the objective of the overall modernisation programme of 3.3 billion kr is fixed and we are on track with the revised Project 1 plan.» In the resumption of the consultation, it was announced that there could be a further increase in cost estimates of 1.5 billion. kr, compared to the estimates from 2010 and 2011, for the overall project. Technology management is a demanding discipline, but it is not about having detailed computer education and competence, but about having knowledge of project management and organisational development and management and management. We have been informed through the consultation, and also in other ways, that it is fully possible to succeed in complex ICT projects as long as you have good governance and good organisation. Then there is a general implementation risk associated with not involving the organisation's own professional environments and those who are actually going to use the ICT systems, well enough in the processes, and it's a management responsibility. When will it be discovered that explicit declarations of ambition are disproportionate to the actual ability to solve problems for those who are going to use the systems in their daily lives when they are not? We believe that there are serious findings that are made visible in the report, and not least information that we have been given through the consultation. When implementing the most complex and expensive project you had, you rejected the model of organisation that you had used with luck, which had given results, that had delivered on diet and time, and then you chose a completely new organization, where you used the consultants to do normal tasks in Nav, while creating your own organisation with your own employees. And so it was a short time before this happened. Then I just want to clarify a couple of things. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the representative of the Central Party in the Committee indicate that the only amount formally decided by the Stortinget is SEK 1.75 billion. kr in the context of the start-up of Project 1, the modernisation programme. Project 1 has been delivered on time and cost, but with reduced functionality compared to the original plans. The amount of 3,3 billion. kr to which reference is made – and preferably more than that – is an estimated frame that external quality insurer Metier recommended in KS1 but has not been submitted for or decided in Stortinget. Nav is also responsible for the operational implementation of the modernisation programme. In our view, it would be totally wrong if the Council of State were to go directly into and do planning, organizing and managing the project. The guidelines established by governments over time are then short-circuited. So I would say that auditing criticism, both this time and in general, is a retrospective activity, but the importance of this matter makes us also have to promote a decision. It is not often the Committee on Control makes proposals for decisions, and when we do, it should be noted that we choose to do so. It should also be noted that we have had to hold two control hearings. I'll stop there. Both the rapporteur and Mr Eldegard have said much of the most important thing in this case, and I will not repeat it, but stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2651	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and good work on this matter, and not least to unload a unanimous recommendation in the committee's position on the Stortinget. Thank you also for the cooperation within the Committee on a difficult matter. This case concerns, as I said earlier, the Riksaudition report on the annual audit and audit for the financial year 2013. The Committee then needed a slightly more comprehensive review of the audit and control of the Ministry of Labour and decided to distinguish this in a separate position. This case thus takes account only of the part relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The Ministry is responsible for nine businesses, and three of them, the Employment and Welfare Act, the Labour Inspectorate and the Retirement Allowance for Seafarers, have received significant comments for 2013. In the case of the State of Labour and Welfare, comments have been received every year since 2009. The department has worked systematically with improvements in recent years and is now dealing with several issues and answering several enquiries in a shorter time. However, despite this effort, in 2013, the audit shows that there are still significant challenges, including: the quality of the proceedings. Modernisation of ICT systems is one of the key prerequisites for achieving the Nav reform. The National Audit Office’s report points to major challenges of modernising ICT in the Labour and Welfare Act, and there is a risk that original intentions will not be met and that the necessary improvements will not be made. The Working and Welfare Set has more than 300 ICT systems built on different technological platforms. It goes without saying that without modernising ICT systems, the current solutions will prevent the establishment from effectively solving its primary tasks for a long time in the future. This would lead to a high risk of incorrect calculation and payment of pensions and benefits, and the necessary compensatory controls are resource-intensive. It is worth noting that in its reporting for 2013, the Riksaudi finds that there are high ambitions for modernisation work and that there is a high risk that it will not be implemented with expected results. Although extensive external quality assurance investigations were carried out during the planning phase, the work was stopped shortly after the start-up. The project organisation set up for the modernisation work, called MOD, was closed. The main reason why the project had to be stopped was: underestimation of the complexity and cost of modernisation work insufficient clarifications of interfaces, interactions and dependencies between existing and planned ICT solutions insufficient competence and insufficient robust work processes in the organisation of modernisation work unrealistic plans lower productivity than provided; Unfortunately, relatively large funds have been lost as a result of the closure of the project organisation and changes in the implementation strategy. The work was re-planned in three separate projects divided into six years, with a total cost framework earmarked for 3.3 billion. kr. I think it is right to clarify that the cost framework is 3.3 billion. kr is not a cost framework adopted by Stortinget, but is a stipulated framework in the project which is not quality assurance. It has been produced in various media as an exceedance when the stipulated framework is increased, and it can therefore be seen for outsiders as if the budgets of the Storting had been exceeded. The National Audit Office notes that a common new ground for further modernisation work is not being created when the ambition to develop a process that can be reused in several procedural areas was set aside to ensure that the reform could be implemented. Altered priorities and need for re-planning are likely to result in further postponement of the establishment's plans to phase out inappropriate ICT systems. In the light of its 2013 report, the National Audit Office has asked questions as to whether the Ministry sufficiently recognises the risk of changing the implementation strategy for the possibility of achieving the original objectives of the modernisation. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs follow up on the establishment of a fully-fledged, modern and integrated ICT solution that supports the objectives set for the Nav reform. During the re-planning of the ICT project in 2013, Project 1 was downgraded and decided to use Pesys as a basis for new disability rather than based on a new and re-usable decision-making module. The Progress Party agrees that re-planning was necessary to prepare for implementation on 1 January 2015. Under the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the impending reform was carried out within the time and cost frameworks set in the re-planning and on which the Stortinget was briefed in the revised national budget in 2013. I want to give State Council Robert Eriksson the honor of having brought the replanned and important Project 1 well into port at both time and cost, as intended. Through the report of the National Audit Office and not least through hearings, the Progress Party is of the opinion that the modernisation project did not, from the outset, have the necessary quality and management, management and organisation at the various levels to ensure the implementation of this project, which had a high level of ambition. This must be the responsibility of the then state councils, and this is the case in the first row of former state councillor Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm. One area where the Progress Party would focus is that significant amounts have been spent on consultants in recent years. There is reason to ask whether this is the best use of Community funds, and whether these companies provide and transfer knowledge to Nav. The hearings and documents sent refer to very large contracts with several companies, including ICT suppliers, recruitment and top management support. One consulting company has delivered deliveries as an order/advisor and as a supplier, creating doubts about the stability. The hearing revealed that Anniken Huitfeldt was aware of the great practice of consulting, and she replied that it was a goal to bring the consultancy down. The current State Council followed up in the same hearing and said that one should reduce the use of consultants where such use could be reduced. In the context of the cost framework for the ICT project, the majority of the Committee argues that current State Council Robert Eriksson gave the impression that the cost framework should be maintained. The Party of Progress considers this reference to be incorrect. On questions from Helge Thorheim during the hearing, whether you were standing on a safe ground and not just safer grounds, the Council of State replied as follows: «I just have to repeat what I have said that we are on a safer footing. [[...]] I think that's positive, and I think that's good, because it makes us more likely to succeed in implementation. Taking better time and planning more thoroughly through 2015 also makes it safer to stand on a safer footing." With regard to the amount allocated to the project, the Progress Party will indicate that what the Stortinge has formally taken a position on is SEK 1.75 billion. in connection with the start-up of Project 1 of the modernisation programme. Project 1 is, as mentioned earlier, provided by the current Council of State at diet and time, but with reduced functionality as provided for in the original plans of the 2013 re-planning under the former Council of State. The Progress Party will point out that the government has so far not submitted a case on Project 2 to the Stortinget. The KS1 process in Project 2, which includes external quality assurance, is part of the government’s preparation of a matter for Stortinget. It is the government’s own quality assurance system that has highlighted weaknesses in Nav’s Project 2 planning. It is thus assumed that external quality assurance assessments will be part of the government's basis for further planning of Project 2. It is therefore unfair when a majority in the Committee criticises Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Robert Eriksson for a process that follows ordinary procedures in preparation for the government and where a separate case has not yet been submitted to the Stortinget. With the quality assurance report from Metier, the government has a good backbone and recommendations to go further in the planning work for Project 2, where one also expects that one includes functionality that was omitted from Project 1. A successful ICT renewal is essential for citizens to receive their rights-based benefits correctly and in a timely manner. In the end, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's full and good presentation. The Progress Party fully concludes on the unanimous proposal for a decision of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2717	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a great job. I will also join in the numerical understanding that the representative Skutle had when it came to the 1,75-billion-billion-dollar allocation. kr and the cost estimate of SEK 3,3 billion. kr, which was created in 2010 and 2011 for the overall modernisation programme. Large-scale ICT projects in public activities have shown many exceedances and are demanding to be carried out on time and at specified cost. What is the big cross of thought is that this is despite the fact that there is a quality assurance and a treatment in both the department and the Ministry of Finance. Thus, a very expensive system has been created that, despite this time and again, does not prove to give the whole point of quality assurance – and the Ministry of Finance is also involved. What is in the vote and on which the committee is in common is that the responsibility for delays and cost increases is primarily with Nav, but responsibility cannot be borne by Nav alone. I would like to stress that it is the sense of reality that an overall committee has. I would also like to stress that there is an overall committee which: «in the opinion that an assessment should be made of the functioning of the quality assurance system developed by the State for this type of complex project». So it's a comment from an overall committee. And it's a note to far more government members than Council of State Eriksson – a note to far more – and I hope that the Council of State that's here will bring it along and take it up in an appropriate way, so that this will lead to a change in the way a works on these issues. It is a major economic aberration, and the entire committee believes that it is far beyond what is manageable. I would like to stress that there is no doubt that this is also the opinion of the Centre Party – that is also the opinion of the Centre Party. One should not have such a use of people and money as this case has shown. The issue of the ICT modernisation programme in Nav came out crooked, but I want to stress that earlier than usual, Nav became aware of this, despite the long planning period, and further use of money was stopped, the plan was revised in the spring and in the summer of 2013, Councillor Huitfeldt was responsible for it, and there is respect for what happened on the Nav side, and for the determination of the Council of State at that point. It could've gone a lot worse. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Environmental Party The Greens use the term "strongly critical" to say that the information became publicly known after the media and the Storting put the search light on the matter. The Centre Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, agrees that there has been a normal procedure in the Ministry before the cost estimate for the overall modernisation programme was clear from the Department. I'd like to comment on that. The central party disagrees that there is a basis for the expression ‘strongly critical’ in the way it was used here. The Committee should be more cautious in its use in order to maintain its high level of seriousness. If it is to be used, more attention should be paid to the professional and political handling of the case by the Council of State, in relation to the will of the Grand Duchy. In this case, the responsibility for the problems lies both on former labour ministers and on the current Minister of Labour. The case from the National Audit Office has led to changes in Nav under the then Joakim Lystad management – which has led to the change that there is a greater self-activity in Nav and a smaller purchase of expensive consulting services, has led to the change that greater knowledge and continuity in your own organisation is focused, and has led to the consequence that there is a stronger link between the department and the development of ICT solutions, i.e. what I would call a better interaction between practice and theory. Otherwise, there is a lesson in this matter that there is a more gradual improvement in ICT that may have taken precedence that has not been sufficiently seen in the past. This major reform in Nav, which has become so difficult, has not seen the full scope of it because of a lack of a comprehensive overview – one has not seen the scope due to a lack of a comprehensive overview. A management must have the necessary comprehensive overview at all times, otherwise he will not exercise good leadership. This is a lesson that professionals now say to me must benefit the police as well, and I hope that there will not be a new case in connection with the major ICT reform that comes into the police. There is a high risk of recurrence if this is not fully addressed. Otherwise, people should be aware that within the estimate of the cost of the ICT programme there are significant amounts associated with the organisation and management of the purchase of hired consultants, far beyond what people understand with ICT as software. This further demonstrates the need to link new ICT solutions with internal Nav organisation, trade union organisation and own organisational development. It goes to the core of the business: how to organise your business to get a product that is such that those who need it understand what is happening, and can do it in a simple way. The proposal for a decision is unanimous, and the Committee asks the Government to ‘propose, as appropriate, a case for Project 2 decision-making basis to describe what is to be delivered, progress and financial assumptions’. So it's in the end that an overall committee here was in common, that one should continue the dynamic work of Nav for improving Nav as an organisation, and I would like to stress that there's a lot to improve for people who need assistance from Nav. Everyone in this room should sit in the position that someone who needs Nav is in, and experience how it works. Then one will understand that one should be quite resourceful to get his case dealt with in one – I would say – decent and good way. I just want to end by saying that the decision-making basis that the government is now required to submit to the Stortinget must be presented in a much more practical and concrete way, based on experience in this matter – I stress: concretely – so that decisions are taken on a well-informed basis. This is the responsibility of the current Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2757	I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for a good and thorough work on the matter and the committee for being able to reach a common agreement. Norway cannot afford Nav to succeed. It should be that simple. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. What we are dealing with today is really a sad thing. Billion has actually been thrown out of the window. Billions of money we should have spent helping those who really need the community's help most, have instead gone to consulting companies that have not delivered the goods. Here we should demand a right of withdrawal. I will not repeat too many of the facts of the matter. There is a lot of light in previous articles, in particular by the case-rapporteur, but briefly summarized, it can well be said without packaging as follows: Things were done too fast. No one was able to lead the project. It was not quality control or professional content, and external suppliers did not deliver what they were paid for. The responsibility for this miser must be added to various government councils, who believed in the assurances they received that everything was on track, but primarily on the administrative management of Nav. There have also been consequences. I regret that the members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre criticise, among other things. Left to place too much responsibility on the Council of State Eriksson. From my and Left side, I just want to state that our connection to different comments should not be read like this. There is reason to point out significant deficiencies in the follow-up to the responsibility – and the fact that the assurances received from Nav were looked at wholeheartedly – both from several previous government councils and from the current one. However, Councillor Eriksson has no primary responsibility for the fact that the modernisation programme is currently more or less in place. It is equally obvious that it is Eriksson's constitutional responsibility to ensure that there are no further exceedances and delays, but I believe that a unanimous committee believes that. The solution to all Nav’s problems — the modernisation programme — which was planned for almost three years and employed 200 people, was abruptly and reasonably unexpectedly stopped and instead went directly under Nav after a relatively short implementation period of just a few months. The plan was to spend 3.3 billion. kr between 2012 and 2018 to make all Nav services digital and modern both against the users and internally within the organisation. The last hearing in the control committee showed that the bill was fast 50 p.m. more expensive and that the project is absolutely out of route. There are consultants who have been feeding on Nav for a number of years. It does not have to be problematic in itself if they deliver the goods and services that they are expected to do and that they are paid to do. But that's exactly what hasn't happened. In recent years, Nav's expenditure on external consultants has been more than 1 billion. kr every year. According to an overview DN, Accenture alone has invoiced Nav for nearly 3 billion. kr in the last eight years – 3 billion. kr! The company has provided advice on ICT, pension reform and ‘other consultancy services’ — i.e. ‘other consultancy services’ with a large question mark at the back — including top management board for the then Nav Chief Joakim Lystad. We're dealing with a company that has given advice on how to solve the problems and make the right decisions about projects it's hard inside. That in itself is not unproblematic. The Nav modernisation project continues to appear – after two consultations within the Committee – as an unbridled and costly chaos. How we're going to achieve goals, and how we're going to get control, are still questions that are basically not answered. It is serious – just as serious as the fact that the volume of services purchased is unfortunately most evidence of a lack of objectives and meaning rather than a well-considered procurement of the necessary external competence. I have no reason to believe anything but that the Council of State will do everything in his power to get the modernisation program and thus Nav's computer systems on the rails. It's not to hide that Nav has very complex systems today, with over 300 subsystems, which little communicate with each other. Modernisation of this system is therefore very challenging and there is a comprehensive process to be implemented. The worrying thing about the situation we are now in is that the result is quickly a reduced level of ambition, higher costs and further delays. The modernisation program is in short danger of not being so very modern when it's done. The question we're all left with is whether we're ever going to succeed with Nav. It's tempting to answer that we just have to, but even a fundamentally positive and often sloppy man who I myself am seriously in doubt. To this end, I will challenge the Council of State on the following three issues: What have Nav and the Department learned from what has been revealed in this matter? When does the Council of State see that the Stortinget is presented with a decision-making basis to proceed with the modernisation programme, a so-called project 2? With the knowledge that the Council of State now has, when does he think it would be realistic that we have a hub that has an ICT system that actually works and that meets the needs of the population? First, learning, second, when he realizes that we have a decision-making basis, and third, when we realistically want to have an ICT system that works – three concrete questions, and I hope the Council of State will use its time to answer the three questions. Nav and ICT are a sad story. It is sad for us who are reformative and will renew the public sector for the better. But all the triste tests are because, as of today, we do not have a system that automatically ensures that those who need it get the right help at the right time. A hub may mean a node in a computer network, or the midpoint of a wheel to go around. Unfortunately, the hub we are discussing today is far from both. We have a job to do together, because it's absolutely vital that we have a hub as a working center, or node, in people's lives when they're struggling the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2814	Let me start by reminding you of what we have for treatment today – the administrative audit, Document 1, for 2013. I will mainly base my intervention on the matter that is being dealt with, and which is just that report. I think we must all recognise that ICT modernisation, ICT solutions and investment, especially the solutions and modernisation that Nav has faced, are complex and challenging. It shows, among other things: with clarity that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has had to have two hearings on the matter. There's something I'm serious about, and something I'm also taking with me in the further work. But let's try to think, what's this case about? From my point of view, it's about three things. It's about what's happened, what's the plans ahead, and the interaction between big business and government. In June 2013, a decision was taken by the previous government to replan Project 1. Everyone today agrees that it was a wise decision to replan Project 1. One of the major challenges was that if you didn't reschedule it, you could get into a situation where the default reform was not introduced on 1 January 2015, which was the Stortinge's clear premise in previous decisions. The solution was that, through that replanning, a different platform – not the modernised platform – was chosen to build on the new misreform. PESYS was selected, which was the same platform as for pension reform. Then I get a little questioning, and I allow myself to ask. The representative, Eldegard, refers to the A2 report and the criticism that the frail reform was planned on another platform, which meant that we delivered the frail reform in time and at the cost that the Storting had foreseen. It was critical, says the representative Eldegard. It's serious, she says. At the same time, all parties in the Stortinget, including the representative Eldegard, support the replanning – a replanning that meant choosing a different platform to build on the default reform. Anyway, I'm a little in doubt about what you mean. I also see that the case-rapporteur in his post said that when you planned Project 1, you were too ambitious. I agree with the rapporteur. Too much was left open – you didn't have the implementing power and the capacity that you should have had. This meant that you had to replan. Then, in his statement, the rapporteur shows that the minority supports Metier. Then we're talking about the planning of Project 2, which has nothing to do with Project 1. Let's keep the two things apart. But still, the minority supports Metier. My question is, what does the majority of the committee support? What is the majority of those who support what to do in the further modernisation, if you have discussed it? In terms of re-planning and not getting so much out of the ICT modernisation that was originally taken into account when Project 1 was launched in 2011, compared to the KS1 assessment made in 2011, I need to stress that the Stortinget has also been informed in the past that it was not possible to implement the original objectives and cost estimates set out in KS1 in 2011. There was information from another government that had gone to Stortinget and was well known. That's why I ask, when I hear a bit of the debate: wasn't it known, or was it known? The information was also provided in earlier documents. I don't want to push responsibility over to former state councils. I take the constitutional responsibility of being the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and lead the Nav project further in the future. I see that there have been complex, difficult balances that have had to be taken from day one, which is also pointed out by an overall committee. It has been complex, and there have been challenges. Then we need the ability to learn from the challenges, we need to be able to take experience from Project 1 when we're going to start further modernisation. There is no doubt that we – and Nav – need significant modernisation in the future as well. That modernisation will involve the Storting and, of course, matters will be presented to the Storting in the normal way so that they can take the decisions that need to be taken in view of further planning. At the end of my post I will come back to the three questions from the representative of the Left, one of which concerns this. Let me also say, because it seems important to me that there has been a good deal of ICT work and modernisation in the years that have passed. One can almost get the impression that no form of modernisation has taken place and that all modernisation has failed. Let me then point to some things. The malformation, as I have mentioned, was introduced at the right time and at the right cost on 1 January 2015. The electronic dialogue system was put in place. Online applications for daily pay are in place. A system to guide the users is in place. In addition, a new age pension has been introduced in the population, with the ICT solution Your Pension, which means that the treatment period has decreased from two to three months to three to six minutes. So there have also been positive ICT modernisations in Nav, and I think it's important that we get the positive things that have happened. In addition, since I became Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, a new ‘A’ scheme has been put in place, which is a major ICT modernisation that makes it easier for employers to report to the public. In practice, this means that five forms in three different envelopes are no longer being used to send them to the post office and three offices, but only one button is being pressed once. It is also a modernisation that we have put in place during this government, a work that had begun under the previous government – a significant modernisation. In addition, I can tell you that everything is right now before the summer so that we can also get online solutions for parental and work clearance money. That's good. It allows us to develop Nav to become more user-friendly. This includes making Nav step by step a user reform rather than a red tape reform. The ICT solutions are needed to get to that, and we're taking steps in the right direction. Then I just want to correct what the representative, Mr. Eldegard, was in his post, and that is obviously wrong. We refer to the A2 report and that it was sent to the department on 8 January. That's wrong. The Ministry has never received any A2 report on 8 January 2015. It was prepared and delivered to Nav an internal quality assurance report from the Directorate, which was a preliminary final report dated 8 January. On 20 January, I received information that the media had put on such a report, which meant that I asked the Nav Director to attend a meeting with me, where I asked for this report. The meeting with the Nav Director was on 29 January. The final report was completed and sent to me on 30 January, and the next day to the Control and Constitutional Committee. So it was absolutely impossible for me to give the committee a report at the hearing in November, a report that was not available at that time. It was also impossible to provide information to the Committee at an earlier stage, given that the final report had been completed on 30 January and was received on 31 January. I believe that the information and this report to the Committee has been provided quite quickly. I think it is important to get the fact out, so the Storting does not have an understanding that this was a report that was sent to the department on 8 January. I have also noticed that part of the setting is about the way forward. I also note the comments that have come from the Control and Constitutional Committee on the way forward, and Metier's report. I take Metier's quality assurances seriously. I believe that there is no better basis for making my assessments than the quality assurance provider's assessments. Then a decision made by a government must be sent to a KS2 quality assurance. So first I answer question two from the left: When can we expect that we will get a case for Stortinget? We have a clear ambition to present a case to the Stortinget during this fall, with a separate additional proposition describing Project 2, and with the cost framework that it would be necessary for the Stortinget to grant to implement what will be the government's position on the further path to modernisation in Project 2. So to question one, what have we learned? What have Nav and the department learned? I think today's articles by Kjersti Monland, Director-General of Nav, give a good picture of what you've learned. You've learned that you need to plan better, you've learned that you need better implementation, and you've learned that you don't have to lose too much, because it can go wrong. I think that's important lessons to have with me. I have also learned that, as a minister responsible, by following this process – both as an opposition politician and in the final phase now as a state council. I would also like to remind you that this government has not yet presented a single modernisation project in relation to the modernisation platform – i.e. Project 1, 2 or 3 – to the Stortinget. But as I say, Project 2 has a clear ambition to deliver to the Stortinget for decision during the autumn of this year. When do you think you have an ICT system that actually works? I shall be honest enough to the representative to say that I will not stand on this pulpit and determine neither time, date or year. However, I would like to make it clear that the need for modernisation is great in the building. We need to move on with the modernisation, and we need to do it in a way that ensures that we succeed to a greater extent than has been the case in the past. I would also like to stress that there is a significant risk associated with such major ICT modernisations. There are great risks there, and we can never plan to escape any kind of risk. It would be like driving a car on a smooth lead. You can never be sure, no matter what speed you choose, that you can't get into a turn where it's so smooth that you go off the road, or that you meet a car that hasn't taken the same account. There will always be a risk, and that risk is important for me to make it clear in the further decision-making basis towards Stortinget. What is the risk we can see today? There will certainly be a risk on the road that we can't predict, but then it's important that information is provided as soon as you reveal that risk. I'll do everything in my power to contribute to it. Finally, I would just like to say some sentences on other topics that have been addressed in the debate. It has been important for me since I came in as a government council, to make sure that you have a good review of the consulting practice. Is it right to spend so much money on consultants, or is it not right? I believe that we will always need to purchase external special skills when we are going through major investments and major modernisations on the ICT side. But I have also been very clear that it is important to make the best possible use of your own competence in the organisation and to make the most of your own competence. That is why I am pleased that Nav is now going through the consultant's work thoroughly, as we have told him. I'm glad. I am pleased that we have now reorganized, and that Nav has also reorganized, through the signals that have been given that more use should be made of the expertise that sits in their own organisation. Giving control signals is also part of my constitutional responsibility, and I believe I have taken it seriously. You might be surprised that you've spent 1.2 billion. kr on consulting services, which the representative Eldegard was also involved in. But there's nothing new, it's averaged per year for all the years from 2006 to 2013 – the eight years. 9.8 B.C.E. NOK eight years divided by eight would be NOK 1,225 billion with a quick headcount. kr. So there's nothing new, and it's been mentioned earlier. What's new now is that we sit down and go through, take a critical review of, consulting. I think it is good and positive the work that Nav has done in this area. Nav is important to most people. Nav is important, as the rapporteur was about, in order to provide the right performance in a timely manner, but it is not just about the right performance in a timely manner. Nav is also incredibly important to provide the right help at the right time, which is going to be a matter of its own later, most likely – if we manage to achieve my ambition – during the spring of 2016. That's why it was important for me to get the Vågeng Committee started, to start a comprehensive review of Nav – in order for us to be more good at providing the right help at the right time, make sure that more people get the opportunity to get into work, make sure that we work in a better, smarter and more forward-looking way. Nav will also face major challenges in the future. When we look at the analysis of the world around you go from 5.1 million to 6.1 million people, it's going to be 25 pst. more than currently in need of assistance. We want a surplus of 200,000 unskilled workers, and we want 90,000 more skilled workers. These will also need to have a strategy to help get back to work, and to manage the amount of work that will be done. That's why I think it was important to start work on preparing Nav for the future. That's why it's important to go back to the A in Nav. For this reason, it is important to move from a red tape reform to a user reform, as we have clear, with good ICT solutions for new age pension in public health – from two to three months of trial to three to six minutes. A-system, new disability benefits – and then we're going to move on to new modernisation in Project 2. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for two good hearings with sharp questions, critical questions, but I hope that together we have become a little wiser and have been exposed and brought forward the essence of the challenge picture and the challenges that have prevailed in this matter, and have also been well informed of the challenges and complexities we face in the future. Then, in the future, matters will be presented in the normal way, following the procedures that have always been used in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2867	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2871	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State says that he should go critically through the use of consultants, which I think is very good. In the hearing on 28 November, I asked the Council of State a question: ‘Are you sure that the plans for the modernisation of Nav are robust enough to avoid new, significant financial losses?’ Then the state council replied: ‘I am sure, in any case, that it is better equipped than ever to implement the modernisation platform and the modernisation envisaged by the Stortinget.’ In the same earring, the daring director Lystad said that 3.3 billion. kr is stuck. Then, in fact, there weren't many days before the newspaper came up that the new estimates actually would be 1.2 billion. kr higher. I will then allow myself to ask the Council of State: Was it not informed about this during the hearing on 28 November?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2892	I can say with my hand on the heart that my task through the constitutional responsibility is to make sure that I get the right information from my underlying offices at the right time. At the time we had the hearing, the cost estimates – the estimates – to which it refers, and to which it was referred in the media in retrospect, were not known either for us or for Nav. What I also said in the hearing – and which I will continue with – was the following: “I have been assured that you are on a safer footing.” And I am happy that we can maintain the speed of the modernisation process. That is why we got the Metier report, which showed that we did not have the implementing power and the planning power that we were assured of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2899	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I would like to ask you another question. It's in a slightly different street, but it's still important. Yesterday there was a budgetary settlement on the revised national budget between the Government Party and the Cooperation Party here in Stortinget. In that budget agreement, a $20 million cut. kr to ICT in Nav. Does the Council of State think it will strengthen Nav, and especially ICT modernisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2906	One has to distinguish between money to be used in the future, which is not granted, and money that is good for projects that have been delivered on and completed. And then we're going to spend some of the money we've announced in the past to look at the possibilities to get even more modernisation for the remaining money. Then you can't spend more money than you can get to modernise. I believe that what we have presented in the revised national budget is done in a proper and proper way. For me, it is not a goal to keep as much money as possible in an area if you do not need the money at this time. Then it is better to put the money in place when you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2911	Does that mean that I now got the answer that it is not possible to use the money, which was actually offered for this year, for ICT modernisation in Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2916	I've assessed that the 20 million. kr is funds that we can redispatch for the rest of the year. That is why we have also redispatched them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2921	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2924	I'll be brief. First of all, I just want to note that I am very pleased that the Council of State has today stated that he is going on the task of modernising Nav with great commitment and seriousness, in the light of the Riksrevision report and the committee's consideration of this matter. There seems to be a complete consensus that this is an important matter, not least with regard to the many users. I have a couple of reflections related to some of the posts today. I think it is worth noting the posts of the representative Skutle, who expressed the effort it has been to get out the information about what has happened in this case. There should be no such thing as a matter for consideration in the Control Committee that it should be so difficult to obtain up-to-date information on what has happened, costs, etc., as we have experienced in this matter – that it is the media that somehow becomes the premiscuous supplier. I fully agree with that as, among other things, The representative of Thorheim, and also the representative of Skutle, said that this estimated the cost of 3.3 billion. kr is not an amount that has been adopted in Stortinget. I think we totally agree on that, but it was an estimated frame, and that's the amount of $1.75. kr, relating to Project 1 which had been adopted. At the same time, however, a Joint Committee notes that the deviations in this case concerning KS1 and KS2 are very dramatic and are far beyond what can be characterised as manageable deviations. An overall committee underlines the seriousness of the matter. A question was asked to the majority of the Council of State Eriksson about what we think about Project 2. This is very clear from our unanimous proposal for a decision on the matter today, where we are just asking the government to proceed with Project 2 both in content and estimated cost framework. Here is a joint committee that is behind the desire to move forward. But what I note, and which has been the basis of our remarks today, is Metier's report that one cannot go further with the modernisation programme in its original form. It is therefore necessary to go a little further in order to achieve the objective set for the Nav modernisation programme, namely to have a fully integrated ICT platform that can make services as functional and efficient as possible for users who benefit from these important services. Once again, I thank the Committee for a good and functional cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2939	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2945	The size is now ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2953	The President proposes that the Minister of Justice and Security report on the temporary armaments of the police be forwarded to the Judicial Committee for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2967	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Eirik Milde, on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 2, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament 3, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to implement the ant-protection plan in Finnmark before the summer of 2016.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e2996	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to summon the concession given for peat operations at Jødahlsmåsan in Akershus.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3013	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The big picture asks the Government in the big picture on the Action Plan for Natural Diversity, the big picture on agriculture and the big picture on forestry and wood industry to assess current issues related to bogs.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3057	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on I, III and IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it. The roll-call boards showed that 51 votes were cast and 51 votes against the Committee's position on I, III and IV. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.23.00]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3066	Somebody's been wrong. Since there are people who have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3081	It is then voted on the Committee's position on II. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3094	President! In that case, proposal No. 3 has fallen, the Left subsidiary will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3099	Proposal No. 1 is wet over and whipped.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3102	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3145	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on I and II. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3160	It is then voted on the Committee's position on III. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3193	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 2-4, by Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament 5, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–4, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal that matters relating to major mining operations where major interests are at stake are to be brought before the Storting before final decision is taken.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for mining and landfill in Fördefjorden for Stortinget before emission permits are finalised.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government that the proceedings for mining and landfilling in Repparfjord be submitted to the Stortinget before the final disposal of discharges.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3232	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to require that alternative land-based landfill solutions be fully investigated before any decision on mining in the Engebøjellet is taken.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3249	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that environmental advice is the basis for a comprehensive decision when final emission permits are granted for the extraction of mineral resources and that it ensures sustainable development and does not impair the environment and/or the resource base over time.’; The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that there were 48 votes in favour and 34 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.27.20]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3265	We have to take the vote again. The voting boards showed that 54 votes were cast in favour and 40 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.27.57]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3274	Since several have reported that the votering plant is not working, we have to take the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3298	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3330	During the debate, Kjell-Idar Juvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During the autumn of 2015, the Government asks the Government to promote its own notification of Norwegian aviation.’ The proposal is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3363	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Kjell-Idar Juvik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make changes for periodic vehicle checks for all mobile homes up to 7500 kg so that they are treated in the same way as M1 passenger cars and mobile homes below 3500 kg.’ [[EU control]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to increase the permitted speed limit for all mobile homes above 3,5 tonnes up to 7500 kg, from today’s 80 km/h to 100 km/h.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the toll be changed by the government for all mobile homes up to 7,5 tonnes, to be treated in the same way as passenger cars of category M1 and mobile homes of less than 3,5 tonnes.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the ferry rates so that mobile homes are treated in the same way as cars with caravans. A solution may be a standard rate of 2 times the tariff for passenger cars, or another appropriate solution to safeguard the intention of the proposer.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess changes in the driving licence category for cars with a view to adjusting the limit from 3500 kg to 4250 kg.’ The proposals are addressed to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-02.ana.ud1610e3501	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
