ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e24	The representative Rasmus Hansson, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave for the representative of Janne Sjelmo Nordås has been submitted from the Centre Party's breeding group from 12 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Wilfred Nordlund is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e47	Wilfred Nordlund is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e55	The representative, Guri Melby, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e58	I would like to make a proposal from Mr Rotevatn and I signed on raising the alcohol limit for beer sold in grocery stores.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e63	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e79	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 55 minutes, the Right 50 minutes, the Advance Party 30 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that up to three lines be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies from the government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e88	It is certainly nothing better to spend a Saturday morning before Christmas than to deal with this important part of the state budget, which is the three areas of responsibility of the Municipal and Administrative Committee in the State budget. To begin with, I would like to thank all those who have spoken in the Committee, who have made contact with the Committee and who have contributed to this process and that this budget has been good. I would particularly like to thank our committee secretary and the others in the administration, including the text centre, for good service in a hectic time. Of course, I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in setting up a budget and an adjustment today. Local democracy in Norway is important, and it works well. In the fall, residents of all 428 municipalities in the country and 19 counties have chosen their representatives and trustees for the next four years. In Norway, the local people have elected legitimacy. The community trusts that the local populace will make good decisions on behalf of them. The Stortinge trusts local democracy. This showed us especially this summer, when Stortinget treats the staging message about new tasks for larger and more robust municipalities. Then there was a lot of will in this room to start processes that will lead us to move tasks from state, county, county, directorate – to mention something – down to the municipalities by giving them confidence, precisely because we believe the decisions will be better when they are taken by those who are closest to each individual citizen. So it will be even more exciting to be local politicians when the intent of the message is followed up and local democracy is further enhanced and enhanced. At the same time, I would also like to congratulate all those who have gained confidence in the local government and county elections, and I would like to congratulate them on their important duties and duties in the service of the people. Major tasks are in line for the newly elected local government and county councils. The people's expectations are always to be met, one should be good employers and one should develop communities, to list some of the tasks that are always established. In addition, we know that the country is in a demanding situation with increasing unemployment. Local authorities play an important role in meeting the situation and facilitating new growth and job creation. In addition, we know that Europe is in the midst of a very demanding refugee situation. It is also demanding for municipalities, and although the arrivals of the last two to three weeks have been declining for many reasons, including: that there have been clear restrictions from this room, the situation will characterize us for a long time in the future. Then it's about the municipalities and the state playing a team, because it's the municipalities that have the important task of bustling those who are going to stay in the country, in the communities. Then it is very important that the local government sector is adapted to what they have the capacity to accept, with what they can provide to provide proper services. It's about more than just housing. Here one should facilitate work, health care, childcare, interpreting and so on. My impression is that Norwegian municipalities are very conscious of their responsibilities, and they took different consideration for each other. Here I would like to pay tribute to both the local government sector and KS for playing well with the state. I would also like to congratulate Mr Solvency Horne, the Minister for Integration, who has taken many new steps forward in the two years she has worked. It is clear that the municipality has bused more than ever before. There are also more municipalities like the bus than before. We shall look further at the integration work in this room and it will be exciting. There are different selections. The government is working with a message, and there are also conversations with different parties about the integration work. What I think is important is that we continue with what is good with the Norwegian model. We must not go over to any more coercion with the municipalities. I think it would be an incorrect signal when your local authorities take a greater responsibility, to start with more forceful before you put it down. I don't think we should copy our neighboring country Sweden with self-construction either. It has not appeared to be a good model. So we're also forced to be careful what signal we're sending out. We cannot send a signal from this room that everyone is welcome to Norway. Norwegian municipalities simply do not have the capacity to handle integration in a good way. Municipal economy always plays an important role in this setting. There's always a gap between expectations and money for deliberations. We're never going to get into a situation where Norwegian advisers say that now we have enough money, now it's going to work. It will always be the case that municipalities feel that prioritisation is required. That's the way it should be, because the municipalities are always going to want a lot on behalf of their inhabitants. That's the way it is this year. In this debate, we will certainly hear from the opposition that there is a meager arrangement for the municipal sector for next year. It's almost like we should have translated this debate into other countries, and I think they've had a shock. We're adding up to a real growth for the total income of the local government sector of 8.7 billion. kr to next year, and of this growth is 4.7 billion. SEK free income, with SEK 4,2 billion. to the municipalities and 500 million. to the counties. I think a lot of people would react a little bit to the fact that in Norway the debate in this room is about that it's a skinny arrangement. The most important thing for local politicians is not how much more money they get next year, but what is the real space for action after binding and increasing. Then the graph that's in the proposition is very interesting. It shows that in the last three years, the real space for action of local politicians is larger than in the three years 2011–2013 in advance. There's one reason why there's only the opposition in this room talking about a lean municipality. Once we've been around KS collections, there's not a lot of local politicians criticising. I myself, as a former spokesperson, used to be in those KS collections under the red-green, and I can sign that the experience of a tight community economy was at least as strong for the eight years that it is now. The new thing is that today's opposition didn't realize that local politicians felt that way over the eight years. In 2016, we will strengthen the municipal economy to facilitate the same efforts we have made over the past three years on strengthening the school health care, health care and the provision of drug addicts, to name a few. We also continued to provide support for hospitals and nursing homes, and we continued to strengthen the county road network and are now over 1 billion. kr after the accession of this government, that counties can strengthen their investment in their county road network. The progress party is also particularly pleased that our model in the care of the elderly will be tested for the next year by allowing 20 municipalities to try out government-funded care for the elderly. In a few days, a new income system for the municipal sector will also be sent to the public. There will be exciting work, and some of the changes are natural due to demographic changes, but we will also look at other themes through the hearing and through the treatment of the spring. So it's going to be an exciting job. One of the important discussions to be taken is with a voluntary and involuntary small municipality. There I think there is a big difference between a municipality with long distances versus a municipality where one can run to the neighbouring municipality in 10 minutes. Then the question we're going to consider is whether they should be treated in a non-discriminatory way in the income system, or whether there should be a graduation according to the distance they have to their neighbours. Finally, a little bit about the municipal reform, which is an important task the newly elected local government is now to complete with the local process they are to carry out before 1 July. Here, I would like to commend those who are now standing as local leaders and unload the processes in their municipalities. It is very exciting to travel around Norwegian municipalities and meet spokesmen and local government representatives who work to create a better municipality for business and citizens. When the committee was in Westfold, we were even told that we had to be even clearer from the Stortinget's side that the municipal reform does not go over, and we expect a future-oriented municipal structure. Therefore, it is very funny that the Committee finds room to strengthen the financial instruments for local reform in this budget. The Committee's multiplicity suggests that we use a little of the growth in county municipalities to strengthen infrastructure measures in merged municipalities. There is then a pre-arrangement that allows municipalities to search. And then I hope that the 50 million is a start, and that if the commitment becomes great, there will be even more municipalities that participate in the scheme, so that we can even link communities even closer together. In addition, I am pleased that the Committee's plurality calls on the government to look at the situation of non-growth municipalities that merge with non-growth municipalities. I think the department here will find good solutions so that there won't be a negative factor. Finally, I would just like to point out that there is a small adjustment regarding the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion to Chapter 821 which causes the plural parties Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party to put forward a proposal. Then I will address that proposal in the final analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e124	The representative then addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e129	The 2013 Alternative Budget of the Progress Party reads: ‘A huge amount of money can be saved or, where appropriate, used for other reasonable purposes if the Progress Party is able to implement its immigration policy.’ The budget proposed by the Progress Party was two years ago and proposed to put an end to the IMDI and UNE, and the Progress Party proposed a cut of 437 million. SEK in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. Now the Progress Party is in government, and we are constantly in the Progress Party saying that they have had a full impact on their immigration policy. But we can see that instead of saving money, the extra next year's budget is just over 9 billion. kr. Why has the immigration policy of the Progress Party become so many billions more expensive in just two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e141	I found it a little strange to compare the alternative budget for 2013 with the situation we are currently facing. The situation with the refugee dream and all those who come to Europe and Norway, of course, means that we need a completely different budget to keep the international commitments that this government and the majority of the population have not been renegotiated in two years and that are one of them bound by. It may not be surprising that that effort requires an entirely different budget. I thought and it is a little special that it is precisely the Labour Party who asks the question because we know that the extraordinary situation that Norway got comes from the signal that has been sent out. Then I thought that the Labour Party must be a little careful in creating a large number, all the time they have a lot of responsibility for many of them feeling that they have been invited to Norway, based on signals, among other things. from the Workers' Party's Leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e148	The government's action package to combat unemployment has largely disappeared in the budgetary process. In the area of the Municipal Committee, the entire maintenance package has been removed. The government proposed 500 million. kr for the maintenance and rehabilitation of school buildings and care buildings. It was cut to 200 million. kr earmarked south and west in second round. After the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this money is completely gone. That's too bad. In times of decline with increased unemployment, it is possible to introduce measures to combat unemployment and bring social benefits, as the red-green government did in 2009. The centre party has maintained the 200-million allocation. kr to the South-West in its alternative budget. So the clearance can't be due to a signal that the danger is over. How does the Progress Party justify the fact that the entire package of measures launched as an important tool to combat unemployment is gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e157	It is true that the proposed maintenance package was first adjusted in the additional number, and later signed off in the negotiations with our cooperation party. But it is not that the total amount used in the government budget has fallen. The sum consulted for the local government sector is greater in the final budget agreement than it is in the original budget. I noticed that the financial director of KS pointed out that, among other things. The refugee situation results in several annual works in the municipalities. This allows you to have an employment effect on the final budget agreement at the same level as the original budget would give. I don't see that these 500 million in any way lead to any dramatic change when you see that one also increases the use of money in other areas that benefit the community sector and will create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e164	Sometimes I wonder if I hear correctly when I hear the Advancement Party talking. Now the representative Njåstad repeated that there are many refugees coming to Norway because someone has sent out signals. I have to ask whether the representative has come to realize that we now have the world's greatest refugee disaster after World War II, that it is not going on in Norway or Europe, but in Syria and the neighbourhoods, in Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, Somalia. These are people who have fled from war because the relief workers in the neighbourhoods and in the refugee camps break up like this. People don't get enough food, and the kids don't get school, so they're forced to move on. The Schengen cooperation and the Dublin agreement have collapsed, which SV has warned against for over a year and has asked the government to do something about. Is it true that the representative of Njåstad does not know that this has happened, and is it not natural for refugees to come to Norway when they enter Europe and seek security?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e169	The representative, Andersen, heard correctly that the Progress Party says that the signal means mass. We saw this clearly by the fact that even if the intrusion to Europe went up, she went down in Norway until spring last year, when one sent out another signal. Then the big number – all except SV and the environmental party Dei Green, I think – has chosen to put in place some of the tightening that we see has an effect. It's about Norway not having the capacity to help anyone who's on the run. Therefore, the Progress Party was very clear when the parties – minus our two parties – entered into the Syria agreement, that we have to help even more in the neighbourhood, because there is a need to put in place more measures to avoid people looking for such long trips. By helping even more in the neighbourhoods, we're doing what the United Nations encourages us to allow resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e174	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e178	The choices we make in the 2016 state budget are important for 2016, but there are also road choices that will affect the future in Norway. How are we going to meet increasing unemployment? How are we to accept, settle and include the many thousands of refugees who have come to Norway? How are we going to take care of the many more elderly people who will need care in the coming years, and how are we going to reduce the increasing disparities in society? These are major issues and basic societal tasks that hardly any other country in the world has better prospects for solving than Norway. We have built our society on a policy of small differences, high employment, high value creation, a strong public sector and a living and committed social debate. The Norwegian Community solutions have both been a national economic success and have contributed to the security and freedom of individuals. The Norwegian welfare community is also characterised by the adoption by the Storting of ambitions and standards for school and welfare, while the municipalities are to a large extent organising and carrying out the tasks. And it has proved to be a success formula. But the precondition for this to work is that there is a link between needs and national ambitions and the ability of municipalities to pay for good schooling, health and care for the elderly. The working party prioritizes the most important things first, and we do that by proposing closer to 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities, in addition to the government's proposals. 2 billion. kr is used to strengthen municipalities and counties' free income, 1 billion. kr goes to defined bets within kindergarten, school and health care, and close to 1 billion. kr is used to improve the ability of municipalities to settle and integrate refugees. We have many unsolved tasks in Norway. One of the main challenges for municipalities is the lack of labour in schools, health, kindergarten and care. Another is tight economy. At the same time, Norway has the highest unemployment rate of over 20 years – 127 000 unemployed. However, Norway also has a lot of money at its disposal, and the government is making them available by setting new records in oil money use and by introducing a new flight fee to get even more money. We should use this space of action to equip the Norwegian society for the future and to make the necessary efforts in the municipalities. The government doesn't. In the period 2006 to 2013, employment in the local government sector increased by an average of 8 500 per year. In 2014, employment in municipalities fell to 5000. Despite this, on several occasions the municipal minister has made allegations that the economic space in the municipal sector is larger now than with the red-green government. It's hard to understand the logic of the reasoning. In his reasoning, which is also set out in a figure in the budget proposal, two of the years can be used to try to illustrate the logic of thinking. We can, for example: use the years 2012 and 2014. If we are to follow the logic of the government, 2014 was a year with greater financial space for the municipalities than 2012. Is that right? What were the actual realities of the Commune-Norway these two respective years? In 2012, the municipalities retained additional tax revenue of SEK 5.7 billion. kr. According to the Technical Calculation Committee, the real growth of the free revenues ended at 2,1 pst. In 2014, the sector experienced a tax failure of 2.7 billion. kr and ended up with a real growth in the free revenues of 0,6 pst. But the logic of government is a real growth of 0.6 pst. to prefer a growth of 2.1 pst. Then you have to ask, what is the reason why the government parties come to this absurd conclusion? It is obvious that the government has a very theoretical approach to local economy, where changes in tax revenue are considered not to affect the space for action. It's the only logical conclusion when the government uses the numbers the way they do. But this theoretical approach to the local economy is something we recognize from the government's intrusive resistance to compensating for the tax failure last year. Fortunately, the government has turned around and come up with better thoughts, at least for a while. What makes it all the more absurd is that when the government refused to compensate the municipalities for the tax failure in 2014, it was used as an argument that the municipalities had retained additional tax revenues in the years before. You even pulled out a number: 20 billion. kr had been kept by the municipalities in previous years. All right, 5.7 billion. kr of this money came in 2012, a year that the government now claims was a year with very little room for action in the municipalities. Summary: Last year, the government considered 2012 to be a good year for Norwegian municipalities, so that there was no need to compensate for the tax failure. This year the government believes that 2012 was a bad year for Norwegian municipalities because it best fits the government’s argument. This is a logic that it is not possible to understand in any other way than that the government wants to estimate the situation in the local economy in order to avoid spending more money there. I hope the Minister of State can clarify in his statement whether he will continue to use a reasoning that is based on that kind of absurd conclusion, or whether he can now assure the Storting that he will end with this, because it draws a wrong picture of the situation in Kommune-Norge. The facts about growth in the local economy are clear, they have been confirmed by the Ministry of Finance. The growth in the total income of the municipal sector was 2.5 pst in the period of red-green majority in the Stortinget. Now this is reduced to 1.7 pst. By a different majority in the Storting. In other words, the local government sector has missed more than 9 billion. kr after the government change. Or another way of saying, if the majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy had followed the growth of the local economy that was established under the red-green government, the local government would have 9 billion. more for welfare services as a whole, and there are quite a number of pre-school teachers, nurses and teachers. In the world today, about 60 million people are fleeing. It's almost not possible to take over. The civil war in Syria has driven millions of people away from their homes. Norway must take its share of responsibility for people who have been driven on the run, and we must take that responsibility both outside and at home. The humanitarian disaster we are witnessing requires cooperation at many levels, with the UN organisations, between countries in Europe and between the parties on the Grand Duchy. For the Workers' Party, it has been and is important to make proposals for solutions, bringing together solutions. That's why we proposed our own Syria billion last year, we proposed Norwegian contributions to remedy the refugee situation in the Mediterranean in ours, and we took the initiative of a broad settlement to receive 8 000 quota refugees this year. That is why we have also been involved in the autumn asylum settlement in Stortinget, and that is why we are now taking part in talks on housing and integration. We will continue to contribute to what we can from the opposition in order for Norway to take its part in the international responsibility for the world's refugees, and to make the necessary adjustments in a strict and fair immigration policy, which has been a broad majority in the back of the Great Britain over time. At the same time, it is also necessary to ask the critical questions. Why was the government not better prepared for the influx of asylum to Norway in a situation where, over a long period of time, refugees arrived in Europe as a result of the war in Syria? Why was it not possible to mobilise the necessary resources at an earlier date? How does the Minister of Justice explain that in his draft budget for 2016 the government proposed a cut in the budget of the UDI, while in the budget it recorded that August was the largest month of asylum since the beginning of the 1990s? And why did it take so long before the government saw itself able to change the rules and practices and put case handlers and enough policemen in Storskog? Many of the points in the asylum agreement that were formally adopted by the Stortinget last week mention things that the government is authorized to do and that the government should have implemented at a much earlier date than 19 November, when the asylum agreement was signed. Let me take a few examples: prioritizing fast-return work has broad support in Stortinget. Nevertheless, the government is struggling to reach the target figures for 2015, although the number of people who should have been returned has increased sharply during the year. This is not a matter of the government having lacked legal housing or authority from Stortinget. Why has the Minister of Justice not taken action to reorganize resources, e.g. legal capacity from other public institutions? Strengthening dialogue with the central return countries is clearly the responsibility of the government as long as it operates under Norwegian law. Direct flights to Kabul or elsewhere also do not require a roll-over decision. Several of the points of agreement deal with regulatory changes, including within the authority of the government. Laws are adopted in Stortinget, regulations are characterized by government. Measures to intensify cooperation with the IOM, to ensure effective ID clearance, stronger international police cooperation, to pay particular attention to children and a number of measures within the EEA, Schengen and Frontex, are to a large extent initiatives that should and can be taken within the powers of the government. Several of the points in the agreement deal with efficiency and better interaction between agencies, and are also something the government can and should take the initiative itself, in particular after the extensive rounds of the Gørv Commission and with a government that actually went to elections in 2013 with its main capacity for implementation and action. The asylum agreement also includes a point that the foreign authorities may revoke temporary residence permits if the grounds for protection have fallen due to political, social or humanitarian improvements in the home country. These are already warrants for doing so in the Foreign Affairs Act. So at the point after point, the government could have acted faster within the powers they have. It would probably have saved many asylum seekers from an unexplained situation and saved society for considerable costs. The Progress Party, following the asylum agreement, has made allegations that it has made an impact on its immigration policy. Fortunately, it's not like that. Over the years, a number of games have emerged from that edge, which in various variants has been about closing the borders, ignoring international agreements on human rights, and at all events ignoring the fact that migration is part of the reality of a globalized world. In the reply of the committee chairman in the change of line, he just confirmed it. The difference between 2013 and 2015 is that the Progress Party now has to deal with reality. In the Asylum Agreement, the basic thinking of the Advance Party is duly cleared away and the party is placed within the broad cross-political consensus on which the Storting has been based for many years. So far, all right. Today, the Progress Party controls all the main departments in the field of immigration and integration. The Workers' Party will not call for the immigration policy pre-empted by the Progress Party in the opposition, but there has been good reason to call for solutions, initiative and capacity building and order. Now the influx of asylum seekers has fallen, and that is good. However, it remains to be seen how the situation develops after winter. On the part of the Labour Party, we expect the government to have a readiness to deal with any new increase in the number of asylum seekers to our country. We also assume that the government is following the basic premise of the asylum settlement: that Norway should fulfil its obligations under international conventions, and that a general streamlining and simplification of legislation and practices should not weaken the legal certainty of asylum seekers. The Prime Minister of Norway has invited the municipalities of Norway to work to settle and integrate the many new inhabitants that Norway will have in the next two years. It's a formidable problem, but we have a good starting point for success. New residents represent new opportunities. Whether we succeed depends on how we as a society accommodate. We have to make demands on those who are coming. We have to make demands, but we also have to make demands. The Community solutions and the Norwegian model have made Norway the world’s best country to live in. We also have to use that model when we're going to include many new people in our society. High levels of immigration combined with cash support, tax cuts, labour environment degradation and collective solutions in the labour market can lead to increased disparities, exclusion and undermining of the welfare state. However, immigration combined with childcare facilities for all, early school efforts, the involvement of skilled workers, the development of municipal welfare services, effective labour market measures and an active industrial policy, can be a new and very good chapter in the history of Norway. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e216	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e221	The working party led in the press to receive several refugees in our house, and it has sent an unfortunate signal. Now the Workers' Party has turned around and will be involved in tightening up and conciliation in Stortinget. The Labour Party also says that they stand for a strict but fair asylum and immigration policy. That's wrong. The Labour Party decided at its national meeting in spring to have a humane, fair and consistent refugee and asylum policy. It is nice that the Workers' Party wants to be strict, but it would have been extra nice if they could also be consistent. I believe that the Workers' Party is winging and double-communicating in refugee policy. We see a party that, on the one hand, wants to tighten up, and on the other hand launches proposals that go in the opposite direction: get to work before identity clearance, monitor competence within a month, etc. Now it's important that all parties that have made a deal, also in practice, show that they are consistent and that they give the same signals. So it's especially important for the Workers' Party to do this. Can we expect consistent leadership for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e230	Unlike the Right, we're actually behind the decisions and the comparisons that we had just six months ago. The allegations made by the representative, Mr Schou, are quite unreasonable. They express most of all to a government that does not take responsibility for what is happening on their own guard, and that resorts to simple rhetoric and disclaimers of responsibility. It's worth reminding us that the Right was involved in the deal of 8 000 quota refugees in ours. Then even the Right parliamentary leader said it was a compromise one was very proud of. I am tempted to ask back: Does the representative of Schou believe that it was wrong for Norway to take responsibility for a small part of the world's quota refugees? The Labour Party stands for a strict and fair immigration policy, but as a legal state we must also have a humane treatment of those who come here. It surprises me very much if the Right does not. It is necessary to combine a consistent immigration policy with a good integration policy. I'm sure you can handle that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e235	It would have been tempting to ask if the representative's role model is comedian Ali, but I will refrain from that. Instead, I should like to ask where the representative has been in the last year, as all the opposition debate has been about the presence of too few people in Norway, and that there have been too few sick Syrian refugees in Norway – echo the debate on the 127 who did not come despite the fact that many of those who had already arrived were ill. It was too many and too fast the return of people when the Workers' Party's then immigration policy spokesman said they had also intended to put an end to returning families with children to Afghanistan. All the discussion during the spring period focused on the fact that there were too few people here, and that we threw out and returned too many – until the outcome of the policy that the Workers' Party has been at the head of, namely to receive more and to give signals that here it is just coming. Now you've turned around. I want to ask you, where has the representative been for the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e242	The representative has been here and from the opposition has tried to contribute to Norway’s participation and contribution in a very demanding situation. We are in the midst of a humanitarian disaster in the Middle East. It would only be lacking if Norway, which is one of the richest countries in the world, was not involved in taking its share of the responsibility for world quota refugees. The UN High Commissioner has warned that if the world’s country does not take responsibility for quota refugees, the refugee disaster may be even worse. We must give protection to those who have a right to it, but we must also be clear that those who do not have a right to protection in Norway must be treated quickly and returned. There we record that Stortinget had to take action because the Progress Party has failed to do that job in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e247	The representative Pedersen refers to the previous watch. I think that's a little interesting when the same party has been in government for eight years before this. In terms of local economy, there seems to be a whole new policy in many areas. It amazes me a little, because she has forgotten that she was on her own watch when the KS in 2010 showed that four out of ten councilmen were deluding in getting together their budgets. I see in today's arrangement, and not least what has been presented by the Workers' Party, a whole new development of policies in the municipal area. Then I wonder if the Workers' Party needs another four years to develop policies that are consistent with what municipalities need? It is quite clear that this did not happen when they were in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e252	The Labour Party continues in opposition the main features of the policy we pursued when we were in government. In government, as in opposition, strengthening school, health and other welfare services is the main priority. When we raise it, it's because we say no to the massive tax cuts of the government parties. We believe it's the wrong medicine to meet the future in Norway. What is more surprising is that the Left joins the tax cuts policy instead of putting heavy emphasis on the school and the municipalities' ability to meet the future responsibly – especially when keeping the Left's alternative budget up against the government and the Workers' Party respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e257	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e260	There may well be someone who hasn't heard my previous budget entries. That's why I want to start once again by stating that for the Right, the municipality is a base wall in Norwegian society – in Norwegian democracy. The municipality is a community of people who work together to solve important tasks together — schools and the growing-up environment for young people, care for the elderly, sick and drug users; housing and business development are good conditions. This is why the Right Party government also provides good opportunities for municipalities to do their job, with economics and with the freedom to find local solutions. The Norwegian economy has gone from specialty to conversion. The right-wing Party government has taken hold of the situation, because it was no longer the case that sky-high oil prices allowed us to push the challenges ahead, as the red-greens did. When the country has problems that do not go beyond, it is a political responsibility to contribute to the security of well-being and value creation, including in the future. Norway is in the most challenging situation in several decades. Once the oil price has fallen and the unemployment has increased, we have to pursue a policy that transforms the economy, because we need new jobs and more legs to stand on. In this situation, we have experienced at the same time an influx of refugees, who put the welfare and Norwegian municipalities under pressure. Norway has both traditions and obligations that require us to provide people in need, but we do not escape the fact that it is demanding, even for the municipalities, which, in such a situation, will provide good services to both old and new citizens, whether in school, kindergarten, health care, integration or housing planning. The situation requires robust municipalities that can meet the challenges and, at the same time, continue to strengthen the social security network. This requires more than money. It requires competence and management, and it requires the ability to mobilise resources in its own communities. But it also requires predictability in the local economy, and that is why – I would have said of course – it is real growth in the local economy for the next year as well. The government's proposal meant revenue growth for municipalities totaling 7.3 billion. kr in 2016. The budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left strengthens growth further. The free income, which is the objective of increasing the municipality's economic space, increases by 4.7 billion. kr, or 1,4 pst. This budget proposes to increase the economic space in the municipal economy for the third year in a row with the Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-government, and it is proposed to extend more than the red-green proposals, the last three years of the Workers' Party and the others in government. Then I'm sure we'll hear the red-green list from this pulpit today. We've already heard what was obviously the strategy of the red-greens – it's the Workers' Party spokesperson Helga Pedersen so exemplaryly prepared from here. The reason for proposing low growth in free income for the municipal sector in the last few years of government was that there was a set of hopes for extraordinary tax revenues – because that is the straw straw that the Workers' Party uses today, and clings to when trying to show a different story. It is not likely that if you look at what proposals and ambitions the red-green government had in its last years and what ambitions this government has for growth in the local economy, this government puts up for growth and increased room for action in the free income of the municipalities than the red-green ones did. Then it is that the red-green people use their excuses about – or obviously it has straw straw – that they hoped that other revenues would come to the municipalities that made the picture change for their part. It's a bad strategy. It is an unforeseeable strategy for municipalities to govern, when we have a responsibility to provide predictability in the economy. It is also a little credible to bring billions more to the municipalities now, when you did not deliver the goods in your own budget proposals when you were driving the country yourself. And if today you want to boast of tax increases to business as a balancing factor for increased public expenditure, there's only one thing to say: It's wrong medicine — again. The last jobs in a competitive business now need to be increased red-green taxes. I have to find out how the increased municipal budgets are distributed between municipalities. I record that the Centre Party has still hurt to admit that there are some municipalities that are growing very rapidly, and therefore have growing pain. Schools, kindergartens and other important functions must be in place more quickly than elsewhere. The solution of the centre party is to minimize the growth grant, with millions of dollars in minus for many municipalities as a result. It may be a challenge to have declining population, but jamming poses some challenges to be strong growing as well. That is why we have ensured that several municipalities can receive grants for growth municipalities, and they receive more than before. It is also about equivalent services for residents of these municipalities. But the Center Party is going to reverse. I hear that some of the red-greens are trying to talk down on the municipal reform and say that it's not happening much. Those who say this, probably hope more than they know. Certainly it is demanding for some municipalities to pull the load locally. Community mergers are not always easy. It requires leadership, but it is also a leadership taken by Norwegian municipalities and rapporteurs. There have been investigations, investigations and intentional conversations. Now we're going into a time for decisions and decisions. I think we'll see a real interview in the municipal reform before the deadline of 1 July. Today we adopt another economic carrot for municipalities that merge. It shall be possible to seek additional funding for the completion of road projects and other important infrastructure. When the Bondevik II government encouraged mergers, this was a popular contribution and helped together municipalities such as Ölen and Vindafjord, Aure and Tustna, Bodø and Skjerstad. When we take 50 million. kr to this next year, it is because we are listening to signals from municipalities that say they have missed the opportunity to apply for infrastructure funds. I've heard the Center Party say it's too little money. In that case, it must be because the Central Party believes that there are a lot of applications for community mergers. In that case, for once, I can share a wish from the Central Party. We remember that if 50 million. kr is too small, so we say that the government should come back and make assessments of this in the revised national budget. I dare not forget that it was with the Central Party in the Municipal Council of Ministers that the system and the possibility to apply for infrastructure funds were terminated, when they entered the government offices in 2005. Nor does the need for a community reform go hand in hand. Norway has too many municipalities and an inappropriate municipal structure in many places. Now the ball is with the municipalities. They are in full swing locally, although some parties obviously have more central opposition to it than sensible rapporteurs and local authorities. When it comes to transforming Norwegian society and the Norwegian economy, we also need a public sector that is increasingly playing with and strengthening most people and business opportunities to do what they want. The municipal reform is a central contribution, but the Right–Fremskritsparti-government is working all over the world. It is simplified and cleared by laws and regulations, which make it easier to start building housing, industrial and infrastructure, renewing the public sector, simplifying and improving it. There will be less bureaucracy, more efficient management, better and faster services for citizens. Time thieves of hunting, better management programmes are being developed, and not least significant amounts are being invested in new digital solutions that facilitate more digital services for citizens and businesses. Also this year it seems that the red-green parties have been most concerned about giving a bet of their own and a black paint of others. But there is no real basis for, at least – neither the beauties nor the black paint. We're modernizing the public sector. The whole country is further built through the journey promise of time. The appropriations for county roads have also been strengthened. The increase has been approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr under this government, in addition to continuing the system of interest compensation for transport measures in the counties. We continue to increase the free income, more than what the red-green suggested before they left. The growth in 2016 provides the basis for strengthening important welfare services in Kommune-Norway in health, school, kindergarten, rush and psychiatry, but at the same time we are clear that municipalities still need priority, they need to continue to streamline municipal operations, just as the state needs it. Renewing, simplifying and improving is good medicine, also in the municipalities. The Norwegian economy is in transition. The Norwegian public sector must also be converted – state as municipalities. We need new value-creating businesses that finance our well-being, but we also need a public sector that is not as far as possible but as best we can. That's why we're implementing changes today. It is best to implement them now while we can, and not wait until it is too late – until we have to and have no choice. Then the changes are only more unpleasant than necessary. The right-hand Party Government changes and obtains better results. We invest in transport and climate-friendly solutions, we cut the waiting times in health care, we build care while raising the quality, we raise the effort for addicts and for poor children, we strengthen the local economy and increase local self-government. The right-wing Party government simplifies, renews and improves Norway for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e306	In this document we are dealing with, the Right says a lot about the importance of focusing on business development, and that jobs are a priority task for the Right in Government. They also say that the framework conditions for the development of jobs must be predictable and good – and that is good and good. Then the representative Jensen said in his post that the last business life needs is a red-green tax on business. Then I can ask the representative why he is voting in favour of a fiscal charge, a government tax, which will affect industry and industrial development very negatively? And why does he vote in favour of this tax charge on aircraft seats, which, according to what the entrepreneurs themselves say, could lead to the loss of not only hundreds, but thousands of jobs in the districts, and will lead to a weaker opportunity to develop new jobs? Why does the representative Jensen vote in favour of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e311	The majority in this room adopts an economic policy and a tax system that goes in the right direction for Norwegian business. We also adopt environmental and climate taxes, taxes and taxes on things that pollute, but we reduce other taxes and taxes. The overall tax regime is significantly better with this government than with the Labour Party option. If the concern expressed by the representative Lauvås and the Workers' Party had been very genuine and very deep, the Workers' Party should have been with the Right and the other parties, for example. to reduce the peculiar tax on Norwegian business, which only Norwegian owners and non-resident owners pay. The Workers' Party is still happy to explain to me why it is a good idea for Norwegian owners to pay a strange wealth tax that foreign owners in Norway are releasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e318	The municipal reform stands in the way, and it turns out that the government's message that services to people would be so much better with larger municipalities is not confirmed in all the investigations the municipalities have carried out in the last year. I understand that the majority parties have yet not intended to surrender, and the most special measure so far is 50 million. kr as a decoy to municipalities that merge. The money shall go to roads and other infrastructure measures. One thing is that there is reasonably little way for this money, approx. 500 meters, i.e. an average of three meters per municipality, with today's municipalities. It doesn't worry me that much. The second, which concerns me more, is the position on which the proposal is based. Of this money, 40 million is taken. kr from county road budget and 10 mill. from the discretionary funds. So the majority move money from the priority list to the county council, which they have to upgrade the road network where it's most needed, and to a kind of candy bag to municipalities that haven't even seen the need to change the municipal boundaries. Does the Right consider this to be the way to carry out major reforms? And why is Right so concerned with stronger state governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e323	It is a completely incomprehensible approach to the problem to claim that we offer money to finance infrastructure for municipalities that do not see the need for aggregation. The whole point is that these are means that are going to benefit the municipalities that make positive decisions, and that want to go together, to make it easier for them actually to go together – municipalities that say: if we get to a new municipality, and if we three municipalities join together, it becomes an even better municipality, which will work even better if we get settled in some infrastructure measures, upgraded a road and other things that make this new municipality better connected. That is, of course, the whole point of this scheme, which was abolished by the Centre Party in 2005, because there is clearly no desire for any kind of incentive for Norwegian municipalities to join together. So this is a system for municipalities that actually want to go together, and that comes to the top of – let me remind you of it – the most shy and predictable financial arrangements of the times in a community reform ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e328	SV gets room for a much stronger community economy than what the Right does, as well as that we spend 7 billion. kr less in oil money than what the Right does, and we do that because we're prioritizing. It is a little difficult to understand what the representative Jensen is aiming for when he says that one is concerned with new value-creating business, when his government actually subsidizes and uses the huge research money in the oil industry, which is polluting, which needs to be stepped down, while the renewable industry has been cut off from its subsidies. But now it is also the case that the OECD recommends increasing taxes on the rich and measures to mitigate. Some of it happens through the community economy, and one of the most important things is that there is enough money for enough teachers in school, to ensure that all children have access to good training, are seen and have their faith in themselves strengthened, is important. Why does the Right believe that it is less important than removing the inheritance fee, e.g.?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e335	Firstly, the policy of strengthening value-creating employment, getting more jobs and new businesses in Norway is a policy that we are leading to people having jobs, but also to have a value-creating business in the future that can finance the well-being and public expenditure that we want to prioritise – be it for teachers, kindergartens, nurses or others. And yes, that's right: this government relies a lot on research, we focus on infrastructure and roads, because we focus on a policy that lays the foundation for the business life of the future. And we're strengthening the community economy -- let me remind you about it. The proposals made by this government for the State budget have been better structured in terms of the increase in free income than in recent years when SV was in government. SV and the Workers' Party made relatively low and moderate proposals for growth in free income, obviously – as we have heard before in the Chamber today – because they were hoping that additional tax revenues would be added to the municipalities later on as a result of their financial situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e342	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e345	I want to start by thanking the government parties and the Left for the cooperation, for achieving a balanced government budget where we have safe welfare services and a reasonable growth in the local economy, which ensures the well-being that we all appreciate. It is important to remember that at the other end of the state budget we find the children, the disabled, the families, the elderly — yes, we find the minorities, and there we find the business. All of this requires that we have a good knowledge of the consequences of our decisions. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have been able to participate and contribute to drawing the budget towards the centre, precisely in view of these groups that I mentioned. For the Christian People's Party, the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental in the distribution of power in society, and the forthcoming regional and local reform must contribute to the further strengthening of democracy. I see from our visits around the municipalities that it is very uneven, and I hope that the municipal reform can help to increase the services, so that they become more equal throughout the country. For a number of years under changing governments, too many decisions that should have been popularly elected have been locally anchored, taken in the Directorate or in the regional state. I believe that this year's budget debate, which will point forward, must take account of the fact that the reforms must now ensure that power is delegated from the state to regions and municipalities. So far, I regret that the Workers' Party and the Centre have not contributed more to the country's best in this reform process, The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is now a majority in the Grand Duchy that it should be a regionally elected level. At this point, I am not least thinking about the further relocation of state jobs, where I want to challenge the government in 2016. It is also important to give priority to interaction between cities and regions in order to improve the overall business environment. The Christian People's Party is otherwise satisfied that the budget for 2016 is so heavily invested in infrastructure, research and school, and will point in particular to the Christian People's Party's contribution, that we may get 1,000 new teachers in view of early efforts. Low oil prices and increasing unemployment now require, in the view of the Christian People's Party, a business-friendly policy that can contribute to the conversion and basis for future growth in all parts of the country. A large part of the Norwegian competitive industry is operating outside the major cities, and it is therefore important to reduce distance and transport disadvantages, as infrastructure investment does. We also need to provide a tax facility that provides jobs, not private wealth. The Norwegian economy is in transition as a result of lower oil prices, and several municipalities and local communities face down-manning challenges. We notice that in Rogaland. The first line responsibility for the conversion work often lies with the municipalities and regional actors. We are therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party is involved in strengthening the RUP funds, so that one can continue the important innovative work needed around the country and the beach. Then I want to remind you that the Christian People's Party has helped to strengthen the districts of this budget, actually with as much as 670 million. kr. It has been important to stop the government and centralisation of the tax collector, there is a significant investment in forestry infrastructure, in the construction of timber brands and in the construction of fishing ports, so that we can maintain coastal settlements, contribute to a varied structure of fishing fleets and thus maintain coastal settlement patterns. We have also been able to strengthen the safety of tailors, which is something that people in the districts are very concerned about. In addition, broadband and efficient ICT systems are reinforced by 75 million. kr. I hope that the further investment in cables abroad is a priority area for the government in 2016. So this fall has shown that here in Norway we have noticed the consequences of war and unrest, which have led to the worst refugee crisis since World War II. The high number of asylum seekers who have come to Norway has led to challenges for the foreign administration, the reception system and not least for the municipalities, which are to provide services in the reception phase, and to settle. There is every reason to thank these parties for having set up and done as well as you can. The majority of the Grand Duchy has agreed on measures to deal with this situation. Step 1 of the convergence agreement has already been debated and adopted, and in these days our parliamentary leaders are sitting and negotiating further on the situation and integration of municipalities. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we now work on integration. Good and rapid integration is essential for those who come to Norway and our society and to keep costs down. The Christian People's Party therefore considers it strange that the government did not submit proposals for new integration initiatives in the 2016 state budget. We don't have time to wait for a message that comes before the summer next year. We have to start now, and we have to apply all the good forces that want to participate. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that we got 30 million in the deal. kr for integration measures in both reception and residence under the authority of the volunteer. Voluntary organisations, sports and individuals want to participate in the work and are ready for projects. In the fall, we have seen examples of 300 children fleeing to Norway having only six adults sharing. It wasn't acceptable. These children need good care and safe adults who can show their way into Norwegian society and help with the processing of trauma and experiences. I would like to see children between the ages of 15 and 18 come under the care of child protection, but there is no majority for that. It still means there's a lot to do for this group. We therefore prioritised these children and reached an agreement of 50 million. kr for increased staffing and child-care competence at reception for lone minor asylum seekers. It is absolutely necessary for these children to be provided with care and safety. In addition, it is a good social economy, as it is possible that they will enter and be integrated as part of the Norwegian society. Now there is a need for a boost to integration and continued efforts to ensure that people who have now come to Norway feel included and become a full part of Norwegian society. In order to do so, an increased focus is needed on the local authorities' situation, so that we can settle more quickly. A good framework for the House Bank is important to ensure the housing situation. There has been a great deal of focus on expenditure related to a high number of refugees. I'm not so sure that all the numbers that have flourished, votes, but one thing I'm sure, and that is that if we fail to achieve rapid and good integration that gets this group into education or work, it will cost us a lot more, in terms of both money and human suffering or costs. It is therefore essential that this should become a priority area in the future. Otherwise, Norway has an important responsibility towards national minorities. Minority groups may be in a vulnerable situation. It is therefore necessary to implement specific measures to strengthen these groups. The government appointed a selection, which was led by Knut Vollebæk, where a cartel policy and action towards the Roma and the Tatars. The committee presented a report in June this year. I encourage the government to come back with a message, so we get to discuss this in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party is otherwise pleased with the agreement to provide security around the premises of the Mosaic Religion and to contribute to the reduction of antisemitism through information measures. We also thank for cooperation on the system of grants and increased appropriations for the revitalisation of women’s languages and culture, especially in children and young people. The budget envisages an increase in the buying-in tariffs, an increase in the self-esteem rates and a full harmonisation of the coverage rate and a continuation of the temporary protection of losses. This is precisely in line with the Christian People's Party's spheres and values. Housing is a necessary good all need. It is important that as many as possible have the opportunity to own the owner-occupiers. There is now a great need for more reasonable housing for the settlement of refugees and to meet the need for reasonable housing for disadvantaged persons. We now need to find quick solutions and different initiatives to achieve this. We support the importance of ensuring the quality of investment, so that the modules used, for example: can be used for student housing or for other disadvantaged people. We have to make sure, through regulations, that there is no low quality and that universal design is well maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e386	The representative of the Tuskedal made a good contribution to the importance of integration — that we do not have time to wait for good action. It fully shares the Workers' Party. But the entry into the Tuske Valley is in quite a contrast to the budgetary agreement that is in place, where it is, among other things. cut 250 hours in Norwegian training. Does the representative, Mr Tuskedal, see that there are some contrasts in his contribution to the budgetary agreement? The representative Tuskedal also said that if we don't succeed, it will cost us much more in the future. For the Workers' Party is cut in Norwegian training a rather small cut that we fear will cost us quite expensive in the future. Language is the key to integration. Does the representative agree with the Workers' Party, which believes that it is more important than ever to invest in language training, or does the representative Tuskedal agree that it is wise, as the government considers it, to cut in Norwegian training?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e393	Cutting Norwegian training is unwise, but Norwegian training must be directed to those who are likely to remain in the country. In this way, we are fully in favour, and we would very much like to be involved in increasing Norwegian education – Norwegian, and training in the social field. We share the views of the Labour Party representative on this, and we regret that there was a cut. But the reason for this is that if you are in an asylum reception and you are likely to be returned, it is better to use language training on those who are going to be than on those who are going out. In the present situation, with so many asylum seekers, it is necessary to review all resources to ensure that they are used as best as possible. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party will ensure that precisely language training is prioritised when we are going to review the whole chain of asylum recipients – something we are working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e401	In a joint comment by the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and others, we point out that the county council's role as regional development actor is closely linked to the allocations of post 60, grants to county municipalities for regional development. We show in the note that for county councils, this allocation is essential for them to have a leading role in the work on industrial development. I quote: ‘The majority will strongly warn against weakening regional policy instruments.’ At the same time, it is a fact that the majority parties involved in the Christian People's Party have reduced these appropriations by 423 million. kr after the government change in 2013. I am aware that next year's budget has increased slightly – 54 million. kr in relation to the government's proposal. Nevertheless, the budget line, which both the Christian People's Party and the Centre say is crucial for the work on industrial development in the districts, has been cut dramatically. My question is: is it to ensure support for the government of Solberg so important to the Christian People's Party that they think we have to tolerate a systematic reduction of the regional policy instruments and the central role of the county council as a regional development actor?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e413	When the Christian People's Party cooperates with the government, it's because we have more than one thing in our head. Regional development funds are particularly important. In some states this is used very well, in other counties we see that there has been less need for them. For the Christian People's Party, the so-called RUP funds are very important. We've been negotiating these for 56 million. And we're happy with that. But then we should not forget that when the government reduced the RUP funds, significant means of transport were introduced, as many regions, business associations and county councils said was the bottleneck – just to reduce transport costs. Therefore, we are very pleased that there has been such a significant investment in infrastructure, road, tunnel and other things that are needed to bring the goods forward. That's why we've agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e420	Christian People's Party is a value-based party. That's why it's so hard to understand how the Christian People's Party can support the government and participate in a refugee settlement that makes integration more difficult. Because that's what's real. The proposals that are about preventing people who do not have a need for protection from coming here are, of course, an urgent consensus. So when the representative Tuskedal says that he is very concerned about good integration, I have to ask why he does not support SV's proposal for a faster settlement arrangement. That's obviously important. The second is, how does the Christian People's Party think when, for example, Should family reunification become more difficult? If there's something we know, it's like families split up in war and fleeing. Is it so that the Christian People's Party has now strayed from its view that it is important for families to be allowed to be together, because they think it is more important to be friends with the Advancement Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e427	Christian People's Party is a value party that wants to participate where matters are decided, instead of protesting on the sideline. That is why we are contributing and have been involved in drawing policy towards the centre. I have just said that it is too late to wait until summer. I have just said that integration is important. I have just said that we have put in place a budget of 30 million integration measures. kr. We have increased staffing and increased child-care skills to 50 million. kr. The claims against our participation in getting good things settled are completely unreasonable. In the case of family reunification and the matters the representative mentions, it has never been our wishes. We stand firm on the policy we have, we will fight for it, but we want to fight for the one where decisions are made, and not sit outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e439	The municipal sector faces major challenges in 2016. The government budget has provided little room for strengthened services or new efforts to create jobs and development. 2016 will also be heavily influenced by the efforts of municipalities to receive refugees. The Central Party believes that this draft state budget, as previously budgeted by this government, is going in the wrong direction. The centre party wants fair distribution between social groups and between people in different parts of the country. This is a pillar of the political work of the Central Party, but unfortunately not of the government. We have a government and two supporting parties that support a number of reforms and redistributions that would be centralising on settlement if we did not stop it in time. I expect that we will have done so after the roll-out in 2017, but there can be a lot of irreparable damage before that time. The centralisation reforms are in line – police reform, hospital reform, municipal reform, tax office reform, judicial reform, reform of Innovation Norway, etc. All of this contributes individually to the removal of central public services from many communities. Fortunately, some of the reforms are stopped here in Stortinget. The tax office reform is not going to help, Innovation Norway continues with shared ownership and, hopefully, with regional offices in the counties, and the reorganisation of the sorenprinter districts and districts is being slowed down. Fortunately, there are limits to what the majority of population can support centralisation reforms. I notice that the Oslo politicians boast that the city is one of Europe's fastest growing big cities. This does not happen because a greater part of Norwegian business and value creation moves here, but more because state jobs and head office functions are allowed to grow here. It's a development the center party will turn around. In the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the heavy revolutions of the centralisation screw are the easiest to look at the cuts in regional development and innovation. On this chapter, there's a cut of 825 million. kr, or 40 pst., since the government took over in 2013. The government says it will renew regional policy through a broader approach, whereby the interaction between cities and regions around, investment in infrastructure and growth-enhancing tax incentives will be the engine. Unfortunately, we don't see any effect on that. Nor can it be seen that the focus on transport is anything but the continuation of the objectives of the national transport plan. The central party is increasing the county road budget far beyond the government's proposals. With regard to the contribution to regional growth through growth-enhancing tax relief, we all know where tax relief is going. The reduced taxes on wealth are the profits of people in Oslo West and in Bærum. The impact on the development of new industrial activities and new jobs in districts is marginal, or probably negative. The central party increases regional development appropriations by 600 million. kr in the draft budget. And then we added 500 million. kr. to the county councils to be allocated mainly for the purpose of transport. The regional development funds through the county councils are money such as: disposed of in cooperation with Innovation Norway, SIVA and research institutions. The reduction is therefore not an expression of a desire to transfer responsibility for regional development projects to other actors, but rather a cut in the overall effort. It will be an expression of regional degradation by the government, not for regional innovation as they try to give the impression. A broad majority of the European Parliament has gathered on measures in the field of asylum policy that will give us better control and help us to better distinguish between refugees with real protection needs and those who will not be allowed to stay in Norway. This is necessary if we are to be able to deal well with the increased flow of asylum. The same majority are still negotiating measures to improve the integration of refugees into Norway. I hope we will soon have a broad agreement on this. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for implementing the housing and integration policy. The centre party believes that in the work here at Stortinget so far too little emphasis has been placed on strengthening the municipalities. It is about appropriations for housing and integration, and it is about the place of municipalities in the establishment of adequate reception capacity. The Centre Party has provided budgetary resources to enable municipalities to cover the costs of housing and integration measures. We increase the host municipality grant to municipalities with asylum recipients, so that the tasks of municipalities in schools, health, etc. be fully financed. We're reintroducing the 100 pst scheme. reimbursement of the costs incurred by municipalities of child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers, and we provide room for increased investment in housing for disadvantaged people. Voluntary organisations are making a huge effort to integrate refugees. They have set up clothes, food and care in the queues outside the registration receptions. Red Cross has refugee guides that contribute to social contact and language development, and we also have non-profit institutions serving households. This effort is invaluable in integration and a great burden on UDI and municipalities. We all value the voluntary effort, but if we are to keep it up-to-date, we have to contribute cost recovery for the organisations. The centre party has found room for it in the budget. I'm afraid the bulk of the population is optimistic when they say in their comment on the municipal framework: ‘These members indicate that the government’s financial arrangements for the municipal sector facilitate the provision of more and better services by municipalities and county councils.’ More and better services are unfortunately not available within the budget. Taking into account changes in population composition and cost developments, it is enough to continue today's level. Still, it looks a little bit easier than last year. Then we were in a situation where the municipalities would cover a loss in tax revenue of NOK 2.7 billion. kr. It's been a difficult year for many. This year, there seems to be a better balance between intended and actual tax revenue. The Central Party, through its draft budget, has done what the majority parties say they will do, but will not finance. We have spent money on more and better services in a number of areas – employment measures through the strengthening of the qualification programme, fruit and vegetables for primary school students, drug and mental health interventions, the action package to strengthen care for the elderly to mention something. These are measures that the majority also talk about, but they are talked about as long as the money is not granted. The centre party also strengthens the limits of the county municipalities by 500 million. SEK, of which 300 million. SEK to the county road budget, 100 million. kr in increased loss compensation and 90 mill. kr to coastal areas to cover increased costs for boat and ferry operations. This is the second year of the operation of the new cost keys for county municipalities. Already at the time of the treatment in the municipal proposition for 2015, the majority of governments were asked to come back with new calculations of the cost keys for coastal areas with heavy costs related to boats and ferries. This has not been followed up, and it is believed that the Center Party is critical. 2016 is the year in which the municipalities will conclude their studies on the merger of municipalities and the year in which the government plans to have several hundred municipal government decisions that join the reform's vision of fewer municipalities. That's not how it works. From dreaming about 100 municipalities in the start-up phase, the Prime Minister has now stated that all under 400 municipalities can be described as a reform. A few premises for the municipal reform were put in place when it was launched in the municipal bill for 2015. The government said that the use of carrots as infrastructure measures would be replaced by reform aid. I can quote verbs: ‘Connecting reform support to infrastructure measures in a larger reform could also lead to substantial work, both at local and central level, as well as to the priorities of municipalities.’ Now the opposite happens, and I shall quote again, this time from the joint remark of the budgetary position from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘The majority therefore proposes to establish a grant for county roads and other infrastructure measures from which the counties, together with the municipalities, may apply for funding. The scheme is assumed to be in favour of municipalities that have applied for or taken a merger decision by 1 July 2016.’ So that's the exact opposite of the leaders that were given earlier – 50 million. kr shall be moved from the counties' priority lists of measures to be taken into a new list of municipalities to be lured into a municipal merger. In the past, all parties have said that the income system for municipalities should not be affected by the municipal reform. Now the government announces changes in the municipal keys, where the council says that the income system should be changed in order to no longer benefit municipalities that choose to stand alone on their own. Both the government and their supporting parties in Stortinget have underlined that the municipal reform must be anchored locally and based on voluntary activity. Now we know how the county officials are required to be drivers, and they are told not to pay particular attention to the municipalities' own conclusions when summarising the municipal reform in the summer of 2016. We also know that the government in spring 2017 has announced that they will submit proposals for the Stortinget to merge municipalities where they believe it is necessary to use coercion. In fact, government's assumptions about predictable frameworks and volunteering are set aside when they see that local government reform lacks support from citizens and local politicians. Now both whip and carrot are used together. I hope the municipalities are able to resist and conclude from what they think is best for their citizens. Finally, I would like to include the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e507	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e512	I have listened with pleasure to the post of the representative, Mr. Greni, but also read the Central Party's alternative proposals for the state budget. There are some priorities, but they've also cut some. One of the cuts I noticed was cut off the growth community. After all, it's an addition to municipalities that have a lot of population growth and a lot of need to invest in kindergartens, classrooms, etc. Because we have an income system that makes counting dates 1 July of the previous year, these municipalities are in a particularly difficult situation. This is where the Central Party will cut down 375 million. kr, and it's a serious and big cut. For the central party-driven Skoun municipality, that means $7 million. kr. My question is, how will the representative, Mr. Greni, explain to his party that if the Senter party were to have a plural today, he would have to cut his budget by seven million. kr in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e519	It is true that we have cut the growth grant. That is, we are continuing the growth grant at the 2013 level. So it's at the same level as the red-green government had. If you look at the overall allocation to the local government sector in the Central Party's alternative budget, I don't think the negative of Skaun will be in the order of magnitude that the representative has expected here. Most municipalities will come out positively. It will be a strength for all municipalities in Norway. Centralisation in Norway is a two-way street. We can say that it is centralised, it depopulates some district municipalities, we will stimulate it to continue. That's what the government is doing. The center part looks at it differently. We want to stimulate that centralization to stop. We believe that this will benefit both the areas of the press, which will then have less pressure on infrastructure, less pressure on land. It will also stimulate increased housing and industrial development in district municipalities. We will facilitate the provision of services to district municipalities with relocations as well as to the other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e528	I'm a little surprised by the representative, Mr. Greni. Until 2013, the Centre Party had been in office for 21 years – a total of one – since 1965. They point out that the great centralisation trend is conscious of all parties other than themselves, those who have also been with the Minister of Municipal Affairs for a large part of their time in government. How does this relate, when, by virtue of being in government, the Central Party has not been able to counteract this, what they point out when they are in opposition? Or is it just that these are opposition rods every time the Center Party is out of the offices? For the structure from the 1960s up until now, there has actually been more centralization than a possible new structure. Doesn't the representative see that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e539	I'm very pleased with that question. The representative of Skkelstad obviously lives in the belief that there is a violent move to the big cities still, and that it has been under the red-green government. In fact, we had to reverse that trend under the red-green government. At the end of that eight-year period, population surveys were actually conducted in almost all municipalities in Norway and in all regions of Norway. Even today, with regard to the relocation of Norwegian citizens, the flow of commuters to Norwegian citizens is based on the big cities and not on the big cities. When the population increase is greatest in Oslo and Bergen, it is due to foreign immigration and not due to commuting within Norway. Of course, we will continue to carry out the job we have done all along – ensuring business development throughout the country, ensuring that there are equal services throughout the country. It'll be a main priority even if we get back into government offices in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e544	It is so interesting that the policy that has been in force for 21 years will not be accepted because it is believed that it has been a counter-cyclical policy. However, it is not likely to come from centralisation, especially in the last eight years, when 10,000 new state jobs were created in the Oslo region. That's something that seems more centralizing than a lot of other things. Does the representative, Mr Greni, think that there is the right policy when someone barely managed to move anything out during that period? Is not the centralizing thing – she just said something else from another point of view – that 10,000 new jobs were created in the Oslo region? It's probably more centralizing than there being a few more inhabitants in the Haltdalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e549	The representative of Skelstad may not have seen so much of our neighboring country lately. He goes back to the 1960s. So far back I'm not going. I hadn't started high school yet in 1965, so I wouldn't stand up for the policy. But if we look at Sweden and see developments in Norway in relation to Sweden, I would say that there has been a very good job with district policy in Norway. It is a global trend that is centralised, but Norway has managed to slow down this centralisation at a completely different level from what our neighbouring country has done. In particular, during the last eight-year period when the Central Party was in government, there was a completely different trend in Sweden and Finland compared to Norway. The representative may have come with us when we were on a study trip to Finland, that it was said there: we want a municipal reform, because we have given up our district policy, it has failed. In Norway, you have a district policy that has actually succeeded, there is a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e556	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e559	One of the most important issues we have faced this fall is how we meet the increased unemployment rate. Along the entire West Coast we have seen a significant decline in activity in the oil and gas industries. This has led to the loss of many jobs, and I am pleased that the government has now, with Left's support, granted NOK 15 000 more per year for each apprenticeship contract. 9 000 of the 15 000 have arrived as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. I also note that the head of the Workers' Party has had an involvement with apprentices after the red-green government went off. Unfortunately, that exposure did not lead to increased appropriations for the eight years of red-green government. But we're not in the goal until the cost of apprenticeship and normal schooling are equal financially. Particularly at a time of increased unemployment, it is important to focus on knowledge and increased skills. I notice that the private sector has been good at receiving apprentices, but several municipalities and county councils depend on something. KS has set up a target number of one apprentice per 1000 inhabitants. The public sector, especially in the fields of child and youth work and health, should be much more attractive to take in apprentices. Next year is an important year for the ongoing municipal reform. For the Left, there is a central reform aimed at contributing to a stronger community, better welfare services and a more holistic development of society across the country. The problems are going to get bigger. Take, for example: The flow of refugees we've only met in the fall. Climate and environmental challenges are another example. Then we need municipalities that are large enough and have good enough skills to meet the new challenges. There are a number of processes going on around the country, but some municipalities are now reluctant to take the step of joining forces. The focus is on the services of citizens. In some cases, it may be due to distance constraints, which Storting must take seriously. More infrastructure could be provided to reinforce the impact of a new and more appropriate municipal structure. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are proposing to establish a system of allocation for county roads and other infrastructure measures from which the counties, together with the municipalities, may apply for funding. This assumes that the scheme will benefit municipalities that applied for or decided to merge by 1 July 2016. First of all, it's set at 50 million. NOK to this. I think the government is wise to increase the pot further both in the revised and next year's government budget. I also think several municipal mergers will result from this, and I would like to speed up the process we are in. On behalf of the Left, I am also pleased that the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left reverses the tax recovery reform. The left believes that society is best served by the fact that this service is closest to the citizens it is set to control. The framework for transfers to municipalities is not included in the budget, but in the municipal bill. With the new challenges that the municipalities will face in the future with the settlement and integration of several refugees, it is clear that we need to prepare for a different approach for 2017 than we have set out for 2016. The IMDi now reports that in 2015 the municipalities will settle for record numbers of refugees, and that the previous settlement record from the Bosnia crisis in 1994 will be defeated. This is very pleasing, and the municipalities deserve a great reward for it. This means that the municipalities both want and will contribute to the national efforts we are now doing. Municipalities play a key role in integration work and need to be guaranteed good framework conditions so that, in addition to their regular services, they have resources for housing and integration, including health follow-up, good and varied language training provision, educational opportunities and arrangements to facilitate entry into work. The challenges are great, and many municipalities already face challenges in meeting their challenges today. Our answer is larger municipalities, and as mentioned, we would like to see even more speeding up that process. For the Left, free core time in kindergarten has been an important matter. From 1 August 2015, free core time was introduced in kindergartens for all four- and five-year-olds in families with income below a limit set by the Stortinget. This was passed on to the Left in the previous budget. Today we adopt a budget which means that the system of free core time in kindergarten is extended to include three-year-olds. It is a well-known case that the Left is not a follower of cash support. We believe that this is an obstacle to good integration. Instead, the Left believes that betting on kindergartens makes them as accessible as possible to everyone. Furthermore, the Left believes that we have good measures for low-income families. Kindergartens can also help minority-speaking children learn Norwegian before school starts and make Norwegian friends, which in turn leads to better integration. It is therefore positive to offer free core time in kindergarten, so that more kids can be in kindergarten. Early intervention is essential in all prevention work. Preventive work takes place mainly in the municipalities. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we in the Left are giving priority to further stepping up efforts at health centres, school health services and targeted action against child poverty, in the form of these measures, extending the free core time scheme in the nursery for children in low-income families and extending the free SFO scheme. When we also have a strong commitment to transfers to the county councils and the custody of the county councils that have lost most in the conversion of the income system, it is also about children and young people. We are committed to maintaining the quality of service provision in the counties and fear that a dramatic reduction in the income of county municipalities is affecting secondary education. Today, we have too high a drop-out in secondary education. Too many young people are struggling to enter the labour market without completing basic training. It is therefore important that we ensure a good and full education offer in all municipalities and counties. Then I have to add that a bet that is now outside our budget, namely broadband, is very important in large parts of the country. We still have a very diverse broadband offer around the country, and the Left therefore prioritises spending significantly more money than in the government's proposal on broadband. We are pleased that we had an impact on strengthening the investment in relation to what was from the government. We have a public sector that has become ever larger and more extensive. State control is increasing and government tasks are increasing. There is a need to streamline the public sector and shift more government tasks to the municipalities, which the Left also contributed to the processing of the mission message in our country. We will also work in the treatment of the notified notification of tasks to a new regional level to move more government tasks to regional level. After a harvest with a dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers, it is important to remember that the refugee crisis is primarily international. The war in Syria has been going on for years, and the situation may now be more dramatic than ever. The capacity of the neighbouring countries that have accepted is shattered. The UN has long reported that the refugee camps are heavily underfunded. The basis for many refugees is fully understandable, and we have to prepare for many coming next year too – despite the fact that over the past week we have seen a sharp reduction in the number of asylum seekers in Norway. As underlined by the UDI, it is mainly due to the introduction of border controls by Sweden, but also immediate measures relating to the border with Storskog, which was adopted by a broad majority in the Stortinget, appear to have had its effect. However, in the longer term, the agreement concluded between the EU and Turkey is the most important one, involving more than 27 billion. kr to improve the conditions of the millions of refugees in Turkey. We also see that we are dependent on agreement with the Russian authorities to gain control of Storskog. The refugee crisis is international and needs to be resolved at international level. Norway must contribute here. A preliminary decline in the arrival figures in Norway allows us to gain control of the reception situation and, hopefully, will help reduce the costs associated with the establishment of emergency facilities and the transport of asylum seekers. That's what's needed. Long-term stay in emergency ceilings is both a cost-intensive and a poor solution for the residents. So it's important to get more ordinary receptions in place, and we have to think again about how we operate reception. The left wants integration recipients driven by a day-to-day integration objective. Occupants must be activated and engaged in the operation of the reception and invited to contribute to the development of an activity offer. Language development needs to be facilitated, and voluntary involvement in the local environment needs to be greater than before. The left is therefore very happy that we have now set of 30 million. kr to voluntary actors who want to operate different types of activity offer in reception. When the waiting time in reception is expected to be long, it is even more important than before ensuring activity and facilitating future participation in the labour market. For the Left, targeted action has been taken against children. Children are particularly vulnerable and need special follow-up. It's an uncertain and unknown life to live in reception, and kids notice that it's difficult for parents. We are therefore pleased that we have had a positive impact on strengthening activities for children in reception of 10 million. kr. Nothing contributes more than language development to the integration of children into kindergarten. When we know that four out of five who today live at reception will be allowed to stay, we should start integrating immediately. Early effort is crucial here as otherwise. Finally, a little about oil policy: the left lacks a more comprehensive environmental focus in oil policy. In our alternative budget, therefore, we have called for a strengthening of the work on Building21 and are increasing the appropriations for the Low Energy Programme. Furthermore, in our alternative budget, we have proposed the establishment of a national centre for sustainable urban development that can assist cities in growth with better regional planning of better public transport across municipal borders. Then it is important that we also strengthen the House Bank in the future, both because we have a new challenge in the future to settle even more refugees than we do today, and because we have many others in difficult situations in the housing market. In our alternative budget, we are therefore proposing to strengthen the grant scheme for the disadvantaged in the housing market by 25 million. kr. Furthermore, the Left is well pleased that in the process around the Saemien Sitje we are now approaching a start-up. It is important to have a coherent Sami policy that we see in a common Nordic perspective. Furthermore, I think it is a pity that we were unable to put in place several of the Left's priorities in this area. Therefore, we will follow closely what is happening in this area in the future, if there are any accidental cuts that go beyond our responsibility for the indigenous population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e611	Integration is one of the big problems we're facing. That is why the Labour Party has also given a good priority over 1 billion. more to various integration measures. I have also read with great interest the alternative budget of the Left. I want to give praise to the Left for a very offensive commitment to integration. The left suggests, at least in our area, approx. 780 million. kr for integration measures, proposes increased proceedings both in the UDI and the UN, increased host municipality grants, increased integration grants, activity and training in reception, more for housing and increased support for immigrant organisations. That's very good. The challenge, however, is that in the budgetary agreement, the Left has gained a spectacularly low impact. Of the 780 million that the Left has prioritised, it's over 40 million. kr. Then my question is, why has the Left got so little penetration? Was it because the government parties opposed good integration measures? Or was it the Left that would not integrate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e618	The left will at all times have a good integration policy, which I also said in my post now instead. In the negotiations around a budget, however, one will not achieve what is a primary policy. What the representative has pointed out in the past, which is very important, and which we hope to agree with the Workers' Party, is that it is important to get well integrated as quickly as possible, and not least also activity, but language is one of the most important things that we can get in place. Through it, I've also been very clear that I'm sorry that we haven't achieved goals in terms of early language interventions, because one of the most important things we can do to achieve good integration is to provide language training and thus also good social education by understanding the society that comes to you. Language is the whole key.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e625	The left first uses the budgetary position to tell what they really think, by referring to their own proposals, which they have subsequently negotiated in the budgetary agreement with the government parties. One example is Left's comment on the House Bank. Here the game says: ‘The House Bank has good arrangements for municipalities that will build housing for the settlement of refugees, and an expanded loan framework will provide greater scope for development in a situation where municipalities need to settle more and more. This member therefore refers to the 2016 alternative government budget of the Left, where it is proposed to extend the Husbank loan framework from 18 billion. $25 billion. crowns.’» Now the situation is that there are three other parties, the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, who agree with the Left. These lots proposed to extend the framework by 7 billion. based on the same justification provided by the Left, but the proposal was defeated by the Left and the Cooperation Parties in the financial situation. What is left's reason for using the budget position to tell what they thought before the negotiations with their partners? Should not the party also tell the voters why they have changed their mind and now support something completely different?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e635	The left has definitely not changed its mind. We have negotiated and not reached through with our primary policy. But anyway, we are in charge of the budget that has been negotiated. That is what we believe to be a good budget, even if we have not had an impact on all our policies. Then it's interesting what the representative Mr. Greni pointed out and referred to instead. After 21 years in the government offices, it would be thought that one knew more about that policy and what one originally stood for. We are not, moreover, in government, but we are satisfied and we stand by the fact that it is a good budget, even though we have not achieved the objectives of all the priorities of the left. So we're going to assume that we can get far more into the goal eventually. But the House Bank is very important both in the districts and in the urban areas, and then it is a little special that the same representative from the Center Party then cuts to the degrees of the growth municipalities, who really need an extra handshake, and only have a focus on housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e642	There is a huge gap between the alternative budget of the Left and what they are included in the government. One is billions of tax subsidies and research efforts on oil and the cuts in wood-based research, etc., on what we're going to live on in the future, i.e. we're going to "cool" with what we're going to end with. But the second is about integration and immigration. There is a reasonable distance to the Left from what is the primary policy. An agreement has also been agreed to now tighten up for those who are protected and who are entitled to protection in Norway. Then I wonder if the representative of Skkelstad can explain how to better integrate people more in reception, that there should be a cut in benefits, that more people should have temporary residence, and that family reunification should be much more difficult. Which of these points is what should ensure better integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e650	This harvest has shown us all that we also have to be able to handle several things at the same time. It was important to have the contractions especially in connection with Storskog when we saw that it began to get more than what we could handle. And then Andersen's representative is absolutely right in saying that we also have to focus on those who are here. We have to give them a good offer. That is why the Left is clear that we have to cut down the time for the proceedings. We also need to focus more on Norwegian training and language training, which means that when you leave reception, you can have opportunities. That's why we've also said, like SV, that you have to look at alternatives in relation to how we do it with reception. We have even looked at some schemes in Sweden that show that this can work to a greater extent by thinking slightly different models than the static ones we have now made in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e657	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e660	SV has provided an alternative budget that is strongly geared to reducing the increasing unemployment rate, which has good measures to deal with Norway’s responsibilities in the context of the climate crisis, and which also takes over Norway’s responsibility for refugees – help both at home and outdoors. This is what we get if we use 7 billion fewer oil crowns than the government does – because it is possible to give a different priority, and that should be done. What dominates the debate is the refugee crisis. So it is not in Norway, the refugee crisis is where there is war and in the neighbourhoods. We don't live in a vacuum. This situation has developed for a long time, and it was not difficult to predict when it later crossed Norway’s borders. Last year, SV took the initiative of the Norwegian Government to take the initiative to renegotiate the Dublin Agreement with a better sharing of responsibilities, as this system collapsed. The government did nothing – not the majority either. It was in a situation where this European cooperation could show its justification, but it has unfortunately failed, and I can't be the least happy about it, because there are people who are refugees from terrible situations, we're talking about. We're not talking about something that hits Norway and is completely unfair. I would like to quote from an article in Bergen's Official Journal yesterday, written by Elisabeth Grieg. She reminds us of something important. One is that she calls out a warning, for now it is necessary to extinguish fires, not to ignite fire. I miss, like her, central politicians from the Right and the Advance Party who take the floor now when it seems that the right extreme violence is spreading in Norway, and some people are starting to light up on asylum recipients. It has also happened in my home country. I haven't heard anyone take the word on it. It also misses Elisabeth Grieg. She also recalls how we relate to the rest of the world, and that we have built our prosperity on open borders – and that is right. And she writes: ‘Globalisation has served Norwegian society well. But our progress is not protected from the accident of others. We can't close our eyes and reap the gains. I think, unfortunately, many still think so." And that's what the debate sounds like. She goes on to write: ‘Imagine that war, poverty and the most serious climate-effects affect someone else, far from our living door. It's not like that. There is a link between the acute problems we are about to deal with here at home and common inadequacy in the face of major challenges created by war, poverty and climate change.’ That's what we're facing. The situation that has arisen is not due to the fact that someone in Norway thought we should accept a few more quota refugees. It was about relieving neighbourhoods. This situation could also have been managed by Norway having been faster and stronger in assisting more in refugee camps, so that people do not escape because they do not have enough food and their kids do not get school. Erna Solberg was in a refugee camp in Lebanon not long ago. She saw and realized that it wasn't here. If you're a parent who takes some responsibility, you don't sit for years and let the kids go. You try to get to a place where there's a future. That's what we're talking about. Especially when someone from the Progress Party is speaking, it sounds like there's something invading Norway because someone has pointed out that some refugees from war. These are people who are fleeing the IS, from Boko Haram, from terrible regimes – and as some people even think we should arm. There are representatives in this room who think we should arm these refugees and send them back to join in and shoot – it's almost impossible to believe. SV has not entered into the tightening agreement, and that is good reason. We believe that we cannot let the tightening go beyond those who need protection. SV has voted in favour of all measures to rust up the appliance that was supposed to receive, and the government should have done so a long time ago. But we cannot agree to that, for example. Families split up in war are not to be brought together. We can't agree that anyone who comes here should sit on a temporary basis. We need a new settlement arrangement that makes people move quickly. You have to deal quickly with the applications for those who are likely to be. Now we're throwing away billions of dollars on passivity in reception, and it's going to get worse, says both the government and the majority – you're going to sit longer. I have gone so far as to say that it is actually we who are now teaching asylum seekers to lie on the sofa, watch TV and accept social security. That's what we're doing. Passiveness for years destroys integration. We have to turn this around and make people live fast. SV therefore also strongly prioritises the municipal economy in order to receive more refugees, in order to be a stabilising factor at a time when there is increasing unemployment – it is very important – to ensure that more people are allowed into the kindergarten, to get more teachers in school, so that more health sisters actually get a job, and that they are also earmarked for that money, so that they go to health sisters and not to asphalt. We want several full positions, that is necessary. We also want municipalities to have more money to help disadvantaged families with children. This is necessary because the cuts of government and majority in those areas are going to hit hard, especially families where the caregivers live on disability. We also want a separate employment package for the municipal sector. There are many tasks that can be done in the municipal sector, including the municipal sector, which requires more engineers, including: in order to be able to discharge its climate and environmental responsibilities and to meet the climate adaptations that must occur as a result of more extreme weather – which we have in mind, and in which some are now driving and clearing up in South Africa. Municipalities need to have competence in this area, there is no requirement for it today. They need to have money to implement the plans they make, not just to be able to clean up, but to prevent the effects of extreme weather. It is very difficult for municipalities to take money from the care of the elderly to clean up ditches and such things. You have to do this. The municipal sector also has the opportunity to reduce its climate emissions, and we need to give them the opportunity to do so. We also fund 100 pst. of the municipal expenditure on child protection measures for children under the age of 15 who are seeking asylum alone. I will come back to it in a later article, because I will finally say a little about housing. There is a great need for increased housing construction. The cuts in the Husbank's loan framework are completely incomprehensible. There is also a need for much stronger government efforts to build more rental homes. The government has increased it somewhat, but it is not enough. There is also a need to change housing support. We promoted that proposal in the financial position. We now see that despite making changes that would make that 50 pst. more people should receive housing support, decrease sharply, now there are more than 6 000 fewer who receive housing. It's not because housing prices have fallen or people have gotten better advice. This is simply because many now fall out of the system – because it is not adjusted in line with price developments and benefits, for example. in the fear of the people. You pay rent in dollars and cents and not in percent of your income. Here you have to make sure you have a system that adjusts the housing support so that you do not fall out because of the fall in income and the rise in housing prices. It is especially important for families with children. Everyone needs to live safely, but families with children need more than others. In addition to this, we have also found room to strengthen the Sameting budget by 40 million. kr. We believe that this is necessary, because it is systematically downgraded, and we believe that this is unfortunate and wrong. There's a need to give the whole thing work opportunities to actually solve the problems they have. I would like to mention the suggestions from SV that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e702	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e707	The representatives of Andersen's speeches and replies earlier today have been completely dominated by her concern about integration and immigration policy. That's what I think becomes a paradox when it comes from one of the two parties that have declared themselves completely out of the main debate, which is about the situation that our municipalities face in the coming years, namely integration. My question to Mr Andersen's representative is: what credibility is left of the SV when one is left in Parliament as one of two parties who have locked themselves up for the whole process of enlargement not to be involved in designing policies in the area that is the most important field for Norway in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e712	It's rare that I'm so proud and happy to be in a party that doesn't stretch – to put it that way – the humanitarian principles when it's difficult. Some even go so far that in a situation where I think there is not one country in the world that would be able to strengthen the refugee convention, open up to renegotiate it. SV will present a number of proposals for good integration measures. And if that's how the majority wants to behave so childish that you don't want to look at those proposals, it's actually the problem of the majority. We are going to take part in the debate, make proposals, and we have been involved in all the proposals that have been about dealing with the problem that there are many who do not have protection needs. But we don't want to be on proposals that inhibit integration, where people are going to be even longer at reception, where people aren't going to get their families together, where people are going to get temporary and be told from day one that now you're going to be here, turn your head, learn Norwegian and try to take responsibility for their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e719	Perhaps the President would find a more parliamentary expression than ‘childish’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e722	With that clarification, I get a little more time for my question. The Christian People's Party and SV probably have a common human vision, but different social views. Nevertheless, we regard you as allies in terms of part of these matters that relate to integration and settlement. So to listen to suggestions that come – but when it was about 8 000, you reported out. Then there was the asylum agreement: SV out. Then there were new negotiations on 18 points: SV ut. Then there are new negotiations now on integration and settlement: SV on the outside. I understand a marking, but at the same time we feel that a lot of new proposals are being made, including: Document 8 proposal. So my question is, is SV served to appear as a protest organisation instead of a responsible political party? Is there a lack of results in red-green cooperation that scares?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e731	No, it's not. It is a recognition that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world and should play a different role from what Norway has done now and that unfortunately the Christian People's Party has participated in. It is completely unnecessary to go to the step of renegotiation of the UN Convention on Refugees or to make integration worse and more difficult for those who stay in Norway. It'll lose the individual, and it'll lose society. It's a very strange debate this. We are making proposals in the Grand Duchy, and I expect that there will be a serious debate on proposals that are being promoted in the Grand Duchy, that it is not that if we do not want to be involved in proposals that weaken integration, then proposals that improve integration will be ignored. I expect a greater seriousness from parties who will be in charge of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e738	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e741	I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for its thorough and good work and special thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Left for constructive cooperation on the budget. When the Storting now adopts the budget for 2016, it is with a background in reality that looks quite different than at the beginning of this year. The war in Syria and conflicts elsewhere are driving people on the run, and many are looking for a safe harbour with us. We're going to take care of those who need it, and make sure that those who don't need protection go home. For municipalities, it is particularly important that we enable them to settle refugees and provide them with a fast way to work and self-sufficiency. Migration of the Norwegian economy was faster than previously foreseen. The fall in the oil price has caused problems for many businesses, particularly in the South and the West. Businesses have to cancel employees, families are in a difficult situation. Many communities are affected. We also look at the tax income of municipalities that there are big differences. In Troms there has been a growth in tax revenue up to and including October on the entire 8th. In Hedmark there is a growth of 6.3 pst, while in Rogaland the growth is only 3.7 pst. The total tax revenue of municipalities is now higher than that estimated in the revised national budget. It's more important than ever that we succeed in the transition, so that we can create new economic pathways and jobs that can guarantee our well-being in the future. The government's strong commitment to building the country and implementing a knowledge and innovation promise is crucial to succeed in this. At the same time, it is important that we also have short-term measures to ensure work and activity. The budget for 2016 enables us both to equip ourselves for the future and to take advantage of the opportunities. The economy of municipalities is strengthened through good growth in both free and total revenues. The total real growth of municipalities is 8.7 billion. kr — the growth of the free revenues of SEK 4,7 billion. kr. However, for all newly elected municipal politicians, growth alone is not crucial for their ability to provide good welfare services to municipalities. The most important thing is that, after the cost of demography and pension costs is covered, there is actually an economic room for action. And that's what the municipalities got, both in 2016 and in the previous two years. The economic space of the municipalities is actually larger in the years 2014–2016 than in the previous three years, under the government of Stoltenberg. The community structure is good and predictable. Therefore, there has also been little discussion about the municipalities' framework for 2016. At the same time, it will always be necessary for municipalities to prioritise and ensure good use of resources in the municipal sector. The ambitions will always be greater than the economic space. We need to carry out a knowledge promise that provides opportunities for all, and therefore continue the efforts of the time to further train teachers. We introduce a new science class and strengthen the educational content of kindergartens. Free revenues are also increased in order to provide space for more kindergartens and more flexible admissions. The government will strengthen the social security network so that fewer fall outside and more are lifted. For this reason, the free income of municipalities is strengthened in particular for work in health centres, school health services and measures for drug addicts. These are the priorities that the government has maintained and that we will maintain. We therefore assume that the municipalities follow up. At the same time, it is important to avoid bureaucratic arrangements with applications and reporting, which take time from important tasks in municipalities. Therefore, I am pleased that the majority of the Storting have agreed that these investments should be financed as part of the free revenues of the municipalities, and not by earmarking. Designation means that the money is transferred from the municipal income frameworks to state directorates, so that municipalities have to search and then report. In the past, the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has made sure that four- and five-year-olds from low-income families get an offer of free core time in kindergarten, and have enabled the municipalities to implement this. The budgetary agreement also extends the offer to three-year-olds. This offer will mean a lot to give these children an opportunity to develop together with others. Many say that they support this measure, but I am proud that it is the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left that have made sure that these children actually get this opportunity. In 2016, we will also strengthen housing support, especially for families with children. In order to enable municipalities to provide both refugees and others with a good housing environment, we have also strengthened the grant for rental homes. We are now phased into a fairer income system for the counties, with good transitional arrangements, so that the counties have the opportunity to upgrade the county road network. For both better and safer roads, we have provided a strong increase in the appropriations for county roads – yes, it has actually escalated by 1.2 billion. kr since 2013. It is also important for the county councils, for students, for industry and for society as a whole, that we strengthen the apprenticeship system by increasing the apprenticeship grant once again. This will help more people to have an apprenticeship and to complete their vocational training so that we will have enough skilled workers in the future. Increased commitment to transport creates new opportunities for growth and development, and it binds communities together. I am pleased that the majority of the committee wants to target some of the county roads to municipalities that will merge and establish a new municipality. This will be a positive stimulus in the many good processes currently in progress. I record that someone is trying to create the impression that there are no specific changes in the municipal structure, but in that case you are not very well aware of what is happening around the country. There are now real and good processes going on across the country. Local politicians see that the challenges of municipalities do not go hand in hand, they see that strong welfare municipalities require larger municipalities. Local politicians who take responsibility and look forward to it deserve broad political support from Stortinget. Also in the state, we need to constantly work on renewing, simplifying and improving our services. We do that with concrete measures in a number of areas. We are now implementing a programme of better governance and management in the state, we are developing a new government employer policy, we are catching time thieves who take unnecessary time from important tasks, we are working with a clearer language in our communication with the audience. In addition, we are now implementing a digitalisation promise – both to streamline the state and to improve the user orientation of the public sector. Among these is a new digital elevation model, which will be useful in many areas, for example: facilitate the prevention of flood damage. We introduce a new electronic postal record book, which will create more transparency in public administration and release funds for other tasks. We're improving the system of electronic prescriptions and a number of other projects. The Government has now also proposed the introduction of a scheme of grants for small and medium-sized digitisation projects in state-owned enterprises. These are often very useful and profitable projects, which do not reach the greater budgetary priorities. A clear example of this is that the Workers' Party has proposed to remove the pot for such digitisation projects in its alternative budget. This clearly demonstrates why work on renewing and improving the public sector has stopped for many years. The budget contains many new tools that will contribute to greater efficiency in the modernisation of the public sector. To spring, the government is presenting a new Digital Agenda. In this way, Stortinget will be able to discuss the whole of its efforts in a more digital and user-oriented public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e780	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e783	At least two new records will be set for next year. One is that the government is setting a new record in the use of oil money, the other is that the number of refugees to be settled in municipalities will almost double from today's level, while many municipalities experience a great deal of pressure on the economy and the service provision because they already have a lot of asylum recipients. Porsanger municipality is a good example of that. They have fewer than 4,000 inhabitants, and they have four receptions with hundreds of asylum seekers. They've also lived quite a lot. The rapporteur, Aina Borch, says: «As rapporteur, I have made clear demands, without having clear answers. That's why I say it again: we have to make sure that we get our actual expenses covered! [[...]] I'm worried we won't make it. First of all, because we lack human resources. Then for whether we can do it financially." She calls for a guarantee from the Prime Minister to cover the municipality's expenses. She hasn't. Can the Minister of State give her that guarantee and ensure that something more of the oil money is spent on urgent tasks in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e793	Now I have registered that the Workers' Party has at least said in words that less oil money should be used. We believe that next year's use of oil money is well adapted to a situation where we need to create both activity, work and conversion, and where we are facing major challenges in the field of asylum and refugees as well as in the area of housing. We have given clear signals to the municipalities. They will be strengthened until next year, and in addition, targeted action will be taken by municipalities that have received. I can also inform the representative Helga Pedersen that the government will also use some beauties before Christmas for municipalities that have extra large expenses in connection with reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e798	The working party spends less oil money than the government in its alternative budget for next year. Still, we've found room for closer to 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities, including close to 1 billion. precisely related to the expenditure relating to residence and reception of asylum. We're in December now, and many family fathers wear – more or less voluntary – Christmas dinner suits to distribute gifts and enjoy the surroundings. The municipal minister has also done that, but perhaps in a slightly transferred sense. He has given the two new merged municipalities in Vestfold a Christmas bonus. They do not like it, but why not Christmas bonus to all the municipalities that have put up the government's efforts in connection with asylum receptions and all the services they have had to provide there? It wouldn't have been a pretty good idea to give them an appreciation instead of squeezing on, among other things. Ålesund municipality, which set up with the gym because the government invited and asked them to stand up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e805	I believe that we should pay tribute to all the municipalities that have set up. There is a difficult situation for municipalities, and there is a difficult situation for those who have come to the country and are going to live in Norway. Therefore, the government has close contact with Kommune-Norway. We ensure good coordination on the State side. I think that is important – I think that is absolutely crucial – and we are making sure that we facilitate the municipalities. I think we all have to admit that this is an incredibly demanding situation, how many receptions have to be set up very quickly. That is why I also informed the representative Helga Pedersen in my previous reply that we will now make sure that the municipalities that have had extra expenses will get some extra discretion before Christmas. And we do that in cooperation with the County Council and the municipalities, so that we make sure that those who have had extra expenses get something extra to cover those costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e812	On 28 October, the Council of State sent a letter to all the municipalities of the country. The letter gives me some leads that I can understand based on the need to get a new pace in a municipal reform that is under way, but which I find not very compatible with the assumptions that have been made in the past. Let me give you a couple of examples. In the past, the Council of State has said that the municipal reform should be based on local processes and volunteering. In his letter, he said that state officials are required to assess whether the decisions of the local government are in line with the objectives of the reform. The objectives of the reform are new major municipalities, i.e. if they do not result in a merger, the County of Fylkesan will review the municipal government decision. Where is the consideration of local processes and volunteering? In the past, we have been assured that the income system for municipalities will not be used as a means of pressuring the municipality. In the letter to the municipalities, the Council of State states: «However, the government will consider changes which mean that the income system does not compensate to the extent that it currently compensates for the voluntary choice of small municipalities.» Does the Council of State continue to believe that he can boldly say that the reform of the municipality should be based on voluntary activity and local processes? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e828	The President must remember that speaking time is a maximum time and not a minimum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e831	I could have restricted my answer to saying yes. The community reform is based on volunteering and good local processes. At the same time, a broad majority in the United Kingdom has also indicated that there are some exceptions to this voluntary line. The letter I sent out is entirely in line with Storting's order. I'm recording that there is now a new momentum in the community reform. Last week I have a meeting with South France, North France and Ringebu. There are important processes in progress on the South, with Lindesnes, Mandal, Marnardal, with Lwigal 3. There are good processes in Eastfold, in More and Romesdal, in Hordaland, in Rogaland, in Sogn and Fjordane and in North Norway. Local politicians take responsibility, they look ahead, they are committed to creating strong welfare municipalities for the future of their inhabitants. They deserve the support of the Storting for the important work they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e838	Then I'm going to ask a very brief question. Will the decisions that are then taken after the good processes when local politicians have taken responsibility be respected by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e845	I have answered that question in a series of written questions from the representative and other representatives from the Central Party. It has been answered in various documents in Stortinget. The majority of the population has made it clear that the reform is based on volunteering and good local processes, but that exemptions from the voluntary line can be made so that one municipality does not stand in the way of what can be a good regional solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e850	Of course, it is not from the previous replicator to say anything about the need for municipal reform in the context of settlement and integration. It's going to go away. My question is what we have now done in the final phase of the majority of the municipal committee, that we have put in place an incentive system for infrastructure. My short question to the Council of State is this: if this shows that there is now a high demand for this among the municipalities that will join together, will the Council of State take the initiative to extend the scheme both in the revised and next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e858	I am pleased with the decision Stortinget is making today. This shows that such a major reform needs to be developed in the course of its development. There are good support schemes both with one-off support, with reform support and with the breakdown grant. The breakdown grant means that the municipalities which take decisions during this period will be able to maintain both small municipal grants and basic grants for 20 years. It will then be stepped down in the last five years. So here's good predictability. When Stortinget reaches target 50 million. of course, both the Council of State and the Government will consider the proposal, which comes from a majority in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e865	SV trusts the local politicians so much that we believe that the seas can decide whether they want to join forces, and we also trust them so much that we believe they can dispose of in a total of approx. 6 B.C.E. kr more of the total economy than the government clearly trusts. We believe that there is a need for many more teachers in school and kindergarten teachers in kindergartens. There are a lot more people in the care of the elderly, where people get sick when they get sick, and the elderly don't get enough help. Many more are needed in child protection. There is also a need for money for health sisters, and they must be earmarked so that they actually become health sisters and not asphalt. Finally, the municipalities now need 100 pst. coverage of the costs they have for the purpose of resettling refugees. The municipal minister believes that the local government sector can do these tasks without ensuring that they get 100 pst. the coverage of expenditure on refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e874	The representative, Andersen, began his speech by saying that she had confidence in the local politicians, and ended up saying that the money had to be earmarked. Well, that's not a lot of trust. The problem with earring is that you then take the money away from the local authority. You transfer the money to a state directorate, and the local politicians have to sit and apply for the money. Then they have to be distributed by state bureaucrats, and then the municipal politicians have to report back how they have spent the money. It's not to trust local democracy. What our government has done, on the other hand, is that we have put some leads on money for addiction and mental health. We did it in 2014, we did it in 2015, we do it in 2016, and we're going to do it in 2017. Then we create predictability for the municipalities. Then I know that the local politicians are in tough priorities. They must be more effective, they must be given priority, but local politicians show that they are achieving good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e883	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e886	Looking forward to the financial year 2016, there are many challenges to solving in the areas of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. That's why it's disappointing to see a government and a majority on the Grand Duchy that chooses to use the economic space for new tax cuts rather than using the economy that actually lies there, in a way that would benefit the community more. There can be no particular doubt that municipalities need stronger and better finances if they are to be able to do the tasks we have given them, and not least the tasks we see coming to the municipalities. This is about health, care and education, as it is about business development and the prerequisites for creating attractive communities that attract new residents and new jobs. In a lot of municipalities, you're in these days and you're in the middle of these important social issues. With the budget proposals of the majority of the population, most municipalities and counties are faced with a difficult situation, and we see and hear examples that the role of social development cannot be given priority in the municipality of Norway. It's a shame, and it should be unnecessary. In an age of increasing unemployment, economic and social development in municipalities should be given much better conditions. In the Workers' Party's alternative proposal, the possibilities for doing so would be considerably greater. We have up to 4 billion. It had triggered good, useful activity in the municipalities of the country and benefited all. Then we talk about activities and work in the field of housing, integration, school, health and development of the community. The signals from the municipalities are quite clear: more state intervention is needed in order for the tasks to be resolved. The government has been shown to listen little to the municipalities and much to those who can now win again on big tax cuts. In the vote, the Labour Party points out that we will contribute to the widest possible political consensus on the further development of a strict, fair and humane asylum policy. It means fast returns from groundless asylum seekers, but it also means good cooperation on international agreements and good European solutions that allocate commitments and responsibilities in the most equitable way possible. That means a good integration policy for those who are going to stay in the country. It means obligations, claims and rights of the State, the Municipality and the individual. It also requires resource monitoring, good, effective accommodation solutions, language training, health services, school places and opportunities to get to work as quickly as possible. This will require considerable efforts, including economic efforts. Then it does not seem that we have a government that does not react quickly enough. A wait-and-see attitude, to which we have witnessed from the government in summer and autumn, does not hold the mark. We will then come to grips with important areas such as housing, language and community training, etc. Then I must also mention the cut that Sameting experiences. In the hearing on this budget, it was made clear from the representatives of the Sametinge that they were disappointed with the government's lack of commitment, and they expressed a very clear disappointment that the government is choosing to cut down harder in the Sametinge than in other areas. This, of course, will have consequences in a worse offer to the Sami population. The Labour Party has included in its alternative draft budget the maintenance of the Sameskole voor Mid-Norway in Hattfjelldal, we have funds for Sami educational materials, and we have funds for Sami nutritional purposes. The fact that the Progress Party has long had a clear desire to increase Sami objectives and Sametinget economically is no news, but that the Progress Party is now getting the other cooperation parties involved in this, we're just going to have to take note of that. We are dealing with a budget proposal here today that could look different. There could have been a stronger focus on local economy, on employment and industrial development, a budget that would have taken into account the Community's resources and solve the most important tasks first — school, health, housing, work. The majority will do it differently. 2016 will be a challenging year for many in different ways. The government's response is still cut in taxes to those who have the most already, and they finance it by digging deeper into the oil fund than any government has ever done before. There's evidence of a lack of ability to prioritize, and that leads us in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e901	Our country is in the most challenging situation we've been in for years. The oil price has fallen, and the unemployment has increased here at home. We in Norway need to change. We also need more legs to stand on. At the same time, we experience an influx of refugees who put both welfare and Norwegian municipalities under pressure. Provision should be made for school provision, health services, integration and, in particular, jobs in a country with an increasing unemployment rate. Since the summer, Norway has experienced a record influx of asylum seekers. After the number of arrivals dropped in the first half of the year compared to last year, today we have a situation where our reception systems are under severe pressure. In order to get control of the situation, it is absolutely necessary that we pursue a tight policy, where those who do not have protection are not allowed to enter Norway and are quickly returned to where they came from. Therefore, the narrowing-down measures to which a broad majority has joined are absolutely necessary. The sad thing is that someone chooses to stand outside. Our neighboring countries have also made cuts. Sweden, formerly one of Europe’s most immigration liberal countries, has recently introduced strict border controls. According to today's newspapers, further closure is being discussed. This, together with the restrictions already adopted by the Stortinget, will have an effect. This will also improve reception control and reduce inflow. We see that government and Storting's policy is working. Last week, the number of asylum seekers to Norway was more than halved compared to the week before. But the number coming is still high. And if the number doesn't keep going down, the size has to tighten in more. Then it is important that the government also monitor that situation very closely. We are tightening up immigration policy while managing inflows and prioritizing integration for those who are entitled to stay. I want to repeat it: a good integration policy requires a tight immigration policy, which is balanced, and the challenge lies in it. It's demanding, but it's absolutely crucial. At a time when very many asylum seekers arrive, new measures are needed to ensure the proper functioning of our asylum system. Norway must have a strict but also a fair asylum policy. Over the last few weeks, we have seen that the number of asylum seekers has fallen considerably. It is still too early to say whether this is a lasting trend, but there is reason to believe that the measures taken on the Norwegian side have had much to say for this development. So Norway is still going to be a country where people who are persecuted, subjected to war or who are at risk of their coming from can seek refuge and shelter and be here. Therefore, we must also state clearly that we do not accept abuse of this scheme. It only hits those who need it the most. The size has said yes to restrictions on the law on foreigners. It shall include, inter alia: to make it easier to refuse treatment of asylum applications from foreigners who have resided in a country where they have not been persecuted. They shall be returned promptly to a safe third country. In order to ensure this, the Government and the Ministry of Justice and Security have the opportunity to instruct the Foreign Affairs Department, as they can instruct the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. Measures are being and must be taken to enable asylum seekers with the right to stay to gain a decent life in Norway. And that's all reason to be very grateful for the warm commitment that the population has shown. Those who deal with these demanding challenges in the first line are at work day and night, and have worked at the brink of their own capacity. In particular, communities and individuals have contributed to an important and necessary phase, where the influx has been and is large. No country can deal with this refugee crisis alone. And no country can turn its back on and quit. Both Dublin and Schengen cooperation are now under pressure. From the Norwegian side, it is important to find common European solutions. Norway has increased humanitarian aid to a record level of 1.25 billion. kr goes to Syria and neighbouring countries this year. This is proposed to increase to 1.5 billion. kr for the year ahead of us. Norway has also taken the initiative of a donor country conference for Syria, to be held in London in February. I mention this because it is related to and belongs to this whole thing that we are now witnessing – both those who are coming and those who are going back. The sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers will therefore cost our country $9.5 billion. kr in 2016. It is then absolutely necessary that the legislation also be tightened up. I should also pay some attention to what is going on at border control – there have been a number of measures in that area – and also the restrictions on registration, and not least the necessary measures taken in North Norway, Finland and Storskog. But I also want to pay some attention to what goes on with the lone minor asylum seekers. Up to week 49, 5,055 lone minor asylum seekers have sought protection in Norway. The Foreign Affairs Directorate estimates that the total number may be even higher next year. Now we have expanded the existing receptions for single minors, and we are establishing several new ones, among others. by converting the reception of adults into receptions or units for lone minors. It is important that we also have sufficient capacity in care centres through our own sites, but also private places. It is important to say that we have strengthened child protection measures and care centres by 1.2 billion. kr in the budget before us. It's big money, big money, but it's also necessary. In addition, the government proposed to grant further 71.5 million to care centres. kr in 2015 to increase capacity needs. So if we adopt what is ahead of us in 2016, the total appropriation will be 383 million. kr to the care centres for the year we are now in, including what is in the supplementary number, of course. By the end of November, more than 600 people were ready to settle with a residence permit decision in the care centres of the lone minors. This is an increase of 232 at the end of 2014, of which 124 were single minors under the age of 15. By the end of November, the municipalities had lived in 563 lone minors. There is every reason to pay tribute to both the government and the government, and not least to the municipalities that have actually been able to facilitate and participate in the very necessary effort that this challenges us. Many municipalities have shown great ability and willingness to contribute to the extraordinary situation we are now facing. We appreciate that. There is good cooperation between the state and the municipalities, and it is crucial precisely to address the challenges ahead of us in the reception system in a good way. By the end of the month that's behind us, November, it lived on the other side of 9,670 people. That's 41 pst. more than at the same time last year. At the same time, about 4,490 asylum seekers were expected to be repatriated. By comparison, almost 5500 were expected in reception at the end of 2013. Cooperation between government, state and local authorities has been formidable, and the efforts that have been made, with requests to all the municipalities of the country, have produced the necessary results. It allows the individual to get his or her life started and get well integrated. In the State budget, the integration grant has been strengthened by tens of millions. It's also a reinforcement. In addition to the strength we already had in 2014 and 2015, there has not been a corresponding good coverage since 2009. It's worth noting. It's been necessary, but it's also that the government delivers. Finally, I hear that both the representatives of the Workers' Party and the representatives of the SV say that the government has not acted. What I've seen is that the government has acted. What these two parties did was to demand that you talk about things, have dialogue and keep going. But on 18 September, the government made a proposition, where the Foreign Affairs Department got extra funds. UDI had an estimate allocation. The government announced early that it would bring an additional number to the state budget. In all areas where measures could be implemented, the government was in the forefront. That it is demanding – yes, it is, but it is for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e945	Unfortunately, in recent years, we have witnessed the fact that many millions of people are in a difficult situation, with war and the blossoming of evil organizations with ideologies similar to Nazism. This has resulted in many millions of people fleeing the world. Many millions of people are subjected to systematic assaults, executions and other atrocities. In such a situation, where there is a great deal of need, and where fellow humans and humanity are exposed to that kind of evil, we in the Progress Party believe that we need to spend all our time and resources finding out how we can help as many people as possible. This is the basis for our approach to all the issues that go on with refugees and asylum seekers and how we can help as much as possible. Therefore, I must honestly admit that I think it has been a little disappointing to witness the kind of debates we have had in the last two years. Instead of going together and figuring out how we can spend every penny, every available hour and every available resource to help as many of our fellow human beings in need as possible, we have had quite a few small debates – debates that have not contributed to helping fellow humans, debates that are based on the fact that there are just too few people. It has been the main concern of some of the opposition parties: there are too few people in Norway, there are too few sick people in Norway – it was a big debate. There was a debate that concerned 127 people, and the one that went the longest in that debate was the head of the Central Party, who accused the Christian People's Party of being more concerned with games than with children who were injured in war. There's not exactly a worthy tone in such a situation. The Minister of Justice was strongly criticized for sending too many out of Norway too quickly. There was a big number of it – there were hearings, there were massive media headlines, where one almost got the impression that the Minister of Justice had committed a serious crime. In reality, the Minister of Justice had dealt with Norwegian laws and regulations, returned people who had dealt with their matters in accordance with all applicable regulations and laws, but that was not good enough. The reason was that there was a regulation that had not been adopted, which had not been implemented, which had not been applicable for a short period of time to those who had been sent out. After spending an enormous amount of resources, millions of dollars to do something about this, money to organisations, etc., four families with children have been allowed to return to Norway — four families with children, even after the new regulations, which demonstrate how groundless this group was initially. Not only had they been refused in accordance with the current regulations, but even with the new regulation, most of the people there was so much debate around, totally groundless and had nothing to do here in Norway. I guess we're as much a witness to a mass migration as we're a witness to mass refugees and refugees, which we got demonstrated through headlines and documentaries that were in the summer. TV 2 had a big stake in the refugee situation in France, where people with life and health who are embarking on trains passing through the tunnel to the United Kingdom. Not one person got up and asked, what are these escapes from, then? What is so terrible in the democratic civilised legal society of France that people are willing to risk life and health to get to the United Kingdom? We've witnessed people going from Denmark to Sweden, from Sweden to Norway, then going back to some of these countries, and that suggests that it's not just mass migration we're witnessing. It also shows that in the Progress Party we have been right every year when we have called for some of these conventions to be renegotiated. The 1951 Refugee Convention was intended for people to flee Europe. The asylum system was intended to provide individual protection against persecution. The asylum system was not there to solve mass flow and mass migration, as we are witnessing today, and the Refugee Convention also gives some concern as to what was the starting point for this. If we think that Norway was not occupied and was a free country during World War II, then we should have given the Jews protection in Norway from persecution – but after World War II was over, we should have given the Nazis protection, because then all of a sudden it was the Nazis who were the persecuted, and who risked being executed through the legal cases that were. This may sound like an absurd comparison, but it is the reality of these 30 Taliban officers who were given refugee status and who were living in the eastern part of the country. We in the Progress Party are opposed to sending back people who are at risk of death penalty. We're quite clear on that. But it was not intended that the perpetrators, the perpetrators of crimes against humanity, should only be allowed to rent freely in European countries when these conventions were established. That is why, in connection with our national meeting, I called for and suggested that we should look at these things, and that even people who do not have the opportunity – neither physical, mental or economic – to escape half the world and come here and physically seek asylum and protection, should have those opportunities. There was no lack of bad words and comments about me as a person and about how terrible my proposal was. Then we experienced what we in the Progress Party are used to so far throughout our history, that things that are first characterized as the worst possible are all for. This time it went very fast, because the main thrust of the proposal I made is the main line of the EU: to create hotspots where people seek protection, and then to distribute people to the different European countries based on the number they can accept, and who are actually persecuted. The EU has also used large sums to make people feel better in its neighbourhoods, including: Turkey, so that migration is lowered to European countries. This was also the main essence of the statement that the Prime Minister had here in Stortingen, which received massive support. So it's probably more important who comes with the message and the suggestions than what they actually contain. We have also experienced that policies are beneficial and deliver results. During 2014, record numbers of people who do not have protection needs have been released, as did in 2015. And while this has been happening, what has the largest opposition party been occupied with? Yes, they have been concerned about criticising the Minister of Justice for jeopardising return agreements — he sends out too many too quickly. That's what the Workers' Party has been busy about. While we are witnessing the most effective Minister of Justice of the time, we are also witnessing the most helpless Workers' Party of the time, who do not know which leg to stand on, and the demonstrated leader of the Workers' Party to the degrees earlier today. The same party that said we weren't going to send people back to Afghanistan at the rate we did was as soon as the results of the mass migration to Norway came out and wanted a direct flight route from the Kirkenes to Kabul. The same person who has been out there criticising the deportation would suddenly have a direct flight between Kirkenes and Kabul, something that could not be done, and something that would not have been effective. What will, on the other hand, have an effect is the policy of the Progress Party. In 2014, we had a decrease of almost 5 pst. in the number of asylum seekers while EU countries had an increase of 44 pst. In the first half of 2015, we had a decrease of 20 pst. in the number of asylum seekers while other European countries had increased, until this decision to accept 8 000 Syrian refugees. The reason we've been happy about the times it's been falling is not that we don't like people who are on the run. It's not because we have something against people being safe. That's because for all the resources we save on accepting people here, we can help many, many more people down there. The help organisations were out in the summer and said they needed 3 billion. kr in order to provide proper assistance in the neighbourhoods of Syria. The extra for the increase in the influx of asylum for the next year alone is SEK 9.5 billion. kr. Having a genuine desire to help as many people as possible in need and to use resources as best they can is the only right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e975	The war in Syria has led to the greatest refugee crisis since World War II. It is primarily not our crisis, but it is a crisis for the people living in the midst of a brutal war, and a crisis for the people who have left their homes and fled. Now they're here -- people who've gone through a desperate flight from war and distress have come here to our safe corner of the world. It is worth reminding us, even in this debate, that we live in a safe and good country – a country that no one flees from, but to which people flee. It hasn't always been like this, but now it's our turn to stand up for people on the run. Few countries are better rusted than we are to do it. But it requires that we do the right steps in time, and that we prioritize wisely. But when the arrivals of asylum increased this summer, the government replied to provide a budget with proposals for cutbacks in the UDI. Then the increased arrivals came over Storskog, and for a long time we were told that there were only two case handlers from UDI present. So when action was urgent, the opposition parties in Stortinget had to initiate conciliation. Government parties responded to that invitation by using unnecessary time at internal seminars before coming to the negotiating table. There is no doubt that much could have been done in the past. Now, in the wise name, we don't have to make the same mistake in the next turn. In the next year, integration and settlement will be a major task for municipalities. Then we need to equip the municipalities so they can do that job, and we need to strengthen integration policy. But here too, the government is on arrears. Because when everyone agrees that language is the key to integration, the government chooses to cut Norwegian training. When we know that school is one of the most important integration arenas, the government suggests cutting the school offer for asylum children. And when we know that the municipalities are going to contribute to integration, the government is choosing to underfinance the municipalities next year. The working party has better solutions. We want to play with the municipalities. Next year we'll give 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities than the government wants. We suggest more in free incomes, more to Norwegian education. We will increase the host municipality grant and the integration grant. And we don't just thank the volunteer, we also suggest more money. We know that the biggest challenge for municipalities when they're going to live is housing. We therefore propose a strong housing package: 200 million. kr more to municipal rental properties than the government. It will give room for 740 more dwellings than the government suggests. We're proposing to increase the House Bank's loan framework by 7 billion. kr next year. It is incomprehensible at a time when housing shortages and several refugees are to be settled, that the government chooses to cut into the House Bank's loan framework. The government has cut the housing stock by nearly 240 million in the last two years. kr. We are proposing another solution: we are proposing to strengthen the housing support by 200 million. kr next year. We're going to increase the bolt toxin by $4,000 more than the government. That means that 72 000 households will have more in housing. We also make changes that make the elderly and the disabled who have the least of them get more with our arrangement. We face many challenges, but those challenges can be turned into opportunities if we do good work now. That is why the Workers' Party proposes over 1 billion. to increase and improve integration. We have to prioritize correctly. But the government chooses short-term cuts in integration policy that will cost us dearly in the future. This situation requires action, but the government has spent too much time on political games and internal seminars. This situation requires political leadership, but while the government is urging hard work, representatives from the government parties fly around the municipalities and encourage boycott of hard work. The future depends on our prioritisation of integration, work and minor differences. Unfortunately, we have a government that has neither the ability nor the will to solve the major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e996	We're all going to assume that our country is in one of the most demanding situations we've had in decades. The oil price has fallen dramatically. The unemployment rate has increased. We are in the midst of a refugee and migration crisis, and terror in Europe creates a lot of fear. The situation requires responsible, safe and effective management. Fortunately, we do today. Right-wing pointed out already before the 2013 elections that Norway had a challenge with a two-part business. The time we're in now shows us how right we were. The oil price drop and the need for conversion came faster than most people had believed. There is a big deal about the short-term and necessary measures to deal with increased unemployment, but the lines of conflict in Norwegian policy are about how we equip Norway for the future. That was the debate in 2013, and it will also be the debate in 2017. I am pleased that the government has submitted a government budget for 2016 for work, activity and conversion. The large amount of money in the budget will be used to secure jobs, to increase activity and to help take Norway safely through the transitions, which are faster than many expected. The focus on knowledge, research and innovation is on creating new businesses and jobs in Norway. Measures for entrepreneurs make it possible for people to translate their good ideas into new businesses and thus create new jobs. It also speeds up the development and maintenance of infrastructure. It reduces the cost of business and makes work travel safer for everyone. It's a fact that there's a great need for conversion. For this reason, one of the main actions in this budget is a dedicated action package of 4 billion. to reduce the growth of unemployment even more strongly and to prevent unemployment from becoming more severe. The challenges of falling oil prices and increasing unemployment have been demanding to be addressed in the State budget. In addition, the emergency measures associated with an extremely large increase in the inflow of asylum. It goes without saying that it is not easy both to put in place the practical measures and to cover 10 billion. in a budget that has already been submitted. Still, one has it clearly in record time. I want to commend the government and the cooperation parties for having managed to get a good, defence budget for our country for a very demanding time. It is very gratifying to see that in all of this, the government and the cooperation party have been given a budget in which the local economy has been strengthened. The budget agreement means a real increase in the total income of the local government sector of 8.7 billion. kr in 2016. Of the growth, 4.7 billion. SEK free income, of which SEK 4.2 billion. kr is for the municipalities. It's at least the same level as under the red-green government. I've been a local politician for 20 years, and I've never heard so little criticism of the local government budget for these 20 years now. It is the best test that the government and the cooperation party play on teams with the municipal sector. It is also very gratifying to see that the government and the cooperation party are continuing the strong campaign on county roads that we have seen in the last few years. The investment frame of the County Roads Interest Compensation Scheme is 3 billion. kr in 2016. And then we're going to have $200 million. kr. to rust up the county roads. This means that the bet on the county roads has increased by over 1.2 billion. kr since this government took over. The Government Party and the Cooperation Party have also jointly established important increases in the budget, which will benefit many states, among others. compensation for differentiated employer charges and broadband development funds. This government, in conjunction with the Cooperation Party, is now implementing a phase-in of a new income system for the county councils that the red-green government swept out of taking, year after year in its reign. This is done in such a way that those who lose in the new income system can also live with it. It shows action and implementation. Work on the budget agreement has increased the loss compensation for county councils, and I would like to commend the negotiators in the government parties and the cooperation parties for having put in place important adjustments in an otherwise good budget proposal. A good public sector is not just about money being transferred to municipalities. It is at least as much about simplifying, improving and streamlining the public sector in order to get more out of the resources available in the sector and to provide better services to citizens. After eight years with a red-green government where these were totally absent and pure forward-looking, this government, with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernization at its head, has seen the pace of this work. We already see great progress – several things about planning and building laws, simplification of construction regulations, the removal of time thieves, simplification in all areas and better governance in the state. The last one is the digitisation of public electronic mail journals, which come in a short time. All of this is important – and is itself a public sector reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1037	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation and attitude in many areas. I want to start by saying that in 2014 the influx of asylum went down to Norway. It also did so almost in the first half of 2015. It did so even though there was quite a growth in Europe, actually a dramatic increase in the influx of asylum across the external borders of Schengen. The consequences were found, among other things: in Sweden. In Sweden, the influx of asylum increased dramatically, and you yourself are familiar with the situation today. This means that the signals, information and measures taken by Norway were effective. This turned around in summer, and in September the growth began to grow quite strongly. In September SV also suggested through the Evening Post that we stop all returns from Norway and just focus on the arrival picture. The vote on this speaker's chair today was thus until September that we did too much on returns, that we were too strict, that we were not to take responsibility in Norway – despite the fact that Norway had signaled that we were to take and actually took a fairly large share of the asylum influx. We figured we'd take about 11,000 people. Then the image of arrival changes, so that we now stand in a situation where it has arrived over 30,000 people, not 11,000 we had planned for. Then I think it's amazing to hear the representative's Helga Pedersen's comments from this pulpit, where, first of all, she says that the government should have foreseen three times as many asylum seekers to Norway as it had supposed, despite the fact that we had had a decline the year before and the first six months had a further decline. So we should have foreseen that. I did not register a single signal that the Workers' Party predicted something similar. In addition, she stood here and explained that we should be faster out with returns. So it's a criticism from a party that has been in government for eight years and has never been close to the returns that the government has provided. It was a record in returns in 2013, it was a record in returns in 2014, and it will be a record in returns in 2015. In addition, the representative told Pedersen that we would do much more in Storskog. So there we have implemented changes in the law, intensification of instructions and changes in practice on what I would say is record time. I would like to know when a shop was so fast in such a type of situation in Norwegian context. The representative Pedersen has also been concerned that we should send charter aircraft from Kirkenes to Afghanistan, a proposal that at least does not agree with the criticism of her own party shut down in this room through several settings when it came to the focus of this government having returned just to Afghanistan. It has suddenly changed, although the return assumptions to Afghanistan have not changed. Therefore, I find it strange that in the field by area it is claimed from the Workers' Party that we could do more – we heard Håheim said the same thing – and that we could do it faster. But we actually couldn't. So we've turned around and handled a serious situation in a pretty good, fast and efficient way. In fact, we are now in a crisis situation on the receiving side. We don't have the places we essentially need. In October alone, 8,670 asylum seekers arrived in Norway. We have implemented completely new structures, set up completely new systems at Råde and in the West Camp, we have exceeded the appropriations where we have authority to do so, we have implemented new procedural procedures, we have strengthened the UDI, we have strengthened the PU, child protection and county offices, and we have created an additional number in record time to meet the challenges in 2015. So it's done very, very, very much. So I know that everything is simpler in the opposition, but I have not noticed a significant proposal from the Workers' Party in terms of asylum and immigration policy either in our autumn or in the autumn. I think it's worth noting. The government's commitment continues in the 2016 budget: 240 new annual works for the UDI, 371 new posts for the police – 174 of them newly educated – strengthening the reception structure, increasing the host municipality grant, activities for children, strengthening the representative system, strengthening the government's civil law administration. In addition to the proposals made by the government, we have had a good budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1059	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1062	We don't have the places we need, says the Minister of Justice. The rapporteur in Fredrikstad has had to write letters to the Minister of Justice to ask about the government and the Minister of Justice's ability to establish the reception and residence of refugees in the municipalities applies to anyone other than the representatives of the Advance Party in the municipalities. We have subsequently received many examples that Progress Party members of the City and Municipal Governments vote against both the creation of reception in the event of changes in use and the settlement of refugees. At the end of the meeting, the Party of Progress and, to the extent that the representatives of the Right also voted against a change of use for reception. In Fredrikstad, the Group Leader of the Party of Presidents is alerting the same position. In Sarpsborg, the Progress Party says no to settlement, and there are several examples. Will the Minister of Justice now also ask the Progress Party locally in the municipalities to put up with the government's efforts, which, according to the Minister himself, is imperative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1069	I have never used the concept of ‘dewness’ about the effort it is necessary to do now. I'm busy getting the places we need. That is why we have also started UDI to work on completely new reception systems, such as: go to relatively large cities of set-aside, so that we can have simple and easy accommodation within a proper, up-to-date security regime so that you can have better control of who is in and who is not in the receptions. We are working on completely new concepts that we expect of course that the UDI confer satisfactorily with the municipalities. Then it will be in a local democracy that it is up to local politicians to take the decisions they can take. I also draw attention to the fact that the government has changed the regulations now, so that it can also be easier to get that kind of location around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1074	I note that the Minister of Justice does not use the word ‘dugnad’. So his boss does that; the prime minister has done it repeatedly, and several others that also belong to the government. It is interesting to hear that the Minister of Justice does not support his own Prime Minister in this matter. In the letter of reply to a written question I received now on 10 December, i.e. two days ago, the Minister of Justice said that he fears that the market will not be able to offer the places that are necessary to provide people with a roof over their heads, and indicates that the municipalities should establish reception themselves. Does the Minister of Justice expect these municipal receptions to be set up with the goodwill of everyone but the goodwill of the Advancement Party locally? Does the Minister of Justice think that this is reasonable, to impose demands on everyone other than his own, who, after all, belongs to a government party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1081	Let me first say that I said that I had not used the word ‘dugnad’. That doesn't mean I'm not behind my own prime minister. There must be a way of interpreting a statement, including that of the representative of Lauvås. I also think it is interesting to note that in a big budget debate dealing with important, major challenges in a situation where we are actually in a crisis on the reception side, the representative Lauvås is in both his lines concerned with one thing, namely whether one party should change a position or give notice that one should have a particular attitude in the local processes. I am occupied with local democracy, and I will still be. This means that it will be necessary according to local circumstances to assess how the individual municipality can best handle this itself. It should not be surprising, at least not in this committee, that we should encourage the functioning of local democracy. But then, of course, in my answer I say that the municipalities should also consider whether it is appropriate that they operate these receptions themselves. Then they have better control over the service provision, then they have better attention, and we see that many of the municipalities that actually run the reception are getting pretty good out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1090	It was the party colleague of the Council of State, the representative Keshvari, who took up two matters that I would like to mention to the Council of State. He mentioned that it was well and well 120 sick people that we had asked to get here. Then I remember that there was part of the agreement within the 2 120. It was manufactured as if there was something that was added. I expect the Council of State to agree that it was within that quota, and that those who need it the most will get that attention. That's the one. The second was that it was almost haphazard that there could be four families with children who had stayed after the new regulations. Isn't the Council of State satisfied that we got the necessary review to clarify the judicial policy situation, so that we got a better quality on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1099	It is true that this additional disposal was within the allowance. In the case of the four children's families, I think I'm going to be careful to say that the result finally came after conversations between the four parties, where one went and got in different areas. Of course, it is important that agreements that have been concluded are properly complied with. I believe we have. Then the representative knows that it was not the preferred solution of the Advance Party or the government. Neither is it when we negotiate with other parties. Then we have to give and take, and I think we came to a balance in the agreement that was very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1106	The central party considers that the costs of the municipalities as host municipalities for reception must be fully financed. An expert report from 2013 shows that there is a gap of 70 pst. between the actual costs and the host municipality grant. The host municipality grant has increased somewhat since then, but it is very close to cost coverage. Both in the decision on increased appropriations for 2015 and in the supplementary number of the 2016 state budget, there is a large amount of money allocated to strengthen the reception apparatus – UDI, police, etc. And that's good. However, very little money is used to cover the costs of municipalities. The Central Party proposes 250 million in its alternative budget. kr. The government is well aware of this great undercoverage. An actual undercoverage of about 70 pst. be compensated by an increased grant of 20 pst. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the municipality receives a local government subsidy that is proportionate to the cost? Or does the Council of State believe that it is natural that the actual cost of the municipality must be covered by reducing other municipal tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1115	The host municipality grant has now been increased by 43 pst. last year and 20 pst. this year. That means there's no longer a sub-coverage of 70 pst. In order to be sure that we do not have a distance between the host municipality grant and the actual costs, we have stated that in 2016 we will review whether the host municipality grant covers the costs incurred by the municipalities and to what extent this gap – as was correctly pointed out in 2013 – is still present. That was as far as I remember an increase of 43 pst. in 2015 and 20 pst. in the 2016 budget, which should reduce that distance quite dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1120	I understand that the Council of State will not admit what everyone else sees, namely that the government was too late to do anything about what you would understand to come, because so many asylum seekers came to Norway. What I'm going to ask is the tightening-up of integration policy that is now part of the agreement. In retrospect, it has been said that the first steps must be taken to break down integration policy, and subsequently an agreement must be reached on integration policy. But when there's a discussion around it, representatives of the Council of State go out and say that we can't focus on integration, because everyone who's on reception now is going home. For example, the representative Tybring-Gjedde has been out and said it. Several others have suggested the same thing. The representative Kapur from the Right has also expressed irritation at the forthcoming integration measures. Is it the case that the Council of State shares the view that all those who are now on reception in Norway are going out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1129	The Government has not consulted a proposal to increase the requirement for residence from three to five years before a permanent residence permit is granted. In addition, we will introduce a requirement – as a result of the agreement between the cooperation parties, which is insofar a follow-up to the larger agreement – where a reassessment of some selected asylum applications will be carried out, a little depending on how the development becomes, before granting a permanent residence permit. It will therefore be considerably more difficult in the future to obtain a permanent residence permit in Norway. I think that's right, because the asylum institution is supposed to be a temporary protection institution. If the grounds for protection lapse, it is natural that the residence permit also lapses. This does not mean that those who will still receive a permanent residence permit should not be well integrated — rather on the contrary. We are very concerned that one should be integrated into the Norwegian community as soon as possible after a permanent residence permit has been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1135	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1138	The most important construction project for both the state and the capital of our time is the government quarter. It is mentioned in the budget proposal on page 50, where a progress report is given. It becomes very important for society and for all of us that we are able to find successful solutions that will leave us with symbolic structures that stand for decades to come. Until now, after a draft committee investigation that came in 2014, the government has decided to maintain the Høyblok – a decision I believe has a broad impact – and also to continue to collect the departments, except the Ministry of Defence, in the area around Høyblok. It implies, by the way, a quadrupling of the building mass on the same area. Among the proposals that have come to pass are six ideas based on the first decisions of the government. The buildings were high and rough, seemed strange and very massive in the urban environment, and did not in any way reach the uproar we can talk about when it comes to what I put in common about a successful project. State buildings have now come in the autumn with their principles of construction and their model of how they imagine the government quarter. They've gone down there, so that the other office buildings are lower than the Højblocka, but they're of course still high, and there's a number of office blocks with little distance between that can quickly appear as a pretty hot office desert with a wall towards Youngstorget and Oslo east, and not like the symbol buildings we can be proud of for the future and that we want to get out of the project, as well as well as well-functioning government buildings. In what State Building has presented, they also use what is called the A field, where the Y block stands today. They want to lower and strengthen Ring 1, so that they can build new offices on top of where the Y-block is located, and as it has been said to be demolished. The latter is an example of the fact that safety is and will be fundamental to the project, but that the assessment of safety may change slightly in the course of the project. The threat picture and the kind of attack we now see in the big cities around Europe, cf. the last attack on Paris is very different from what we saw in Oslo on 22 July 2011. So how to put security into the project is complex. The Council of State has participated actively and positively when I wanted to debate the Stortinget on the new government quarter, participated in the interpellation debate and participated in a questioning round in the autumn. I believe it is important that we develop a discussion on Stortinget, so that it does not only come when the appropriations come in 2019. Then it becomes too passive, and then it becomes difficult to get broad up and realize that the breadth of society is satisfied with the project. The last time I brought this up with the Council of State in the fall, the Council of State said that he would consider the use of R5 and R6, i.e. the buildings along Akersgata that house eight departments, and that, if you use them, would be about. a third reduction in the new government quarterly project and a reassessment by the government before Christmas. I think it was a very positive signal, I think it's wise to think about it again when it comes to this. There is a very short distance between R5, R6 and the High Block and the new buildings to come – it will still be concentrated, but you get more room for a successful solution. It would be nice if the Council here today could give feedback on the status of the question of R5 and R6. The second question that I think it's important that we now look at is the Y block. To date, the Council of State has been categorical about its being demolished, for reasons of safety, which has also been the general opinion. Landsbygg made its proposal to build what is called the A-field, on top of Ring 1 – so lower and strengthen it – and the Y-block, as we know, is an important part of the whole, and they are very good at each other. There is now a list of 14 of Europe's most important endangered cultural memories, where the Y block is included, cf. The evening post yesterday. Then I would like to hear from the Council of State about the arguments on security. If they don't apply in the same way, what other arguments make him so sure that the Y block can't be on the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1157	First to the representative Andersen, who in his reply to the Council of State Anundsen pointed out that I have expressed irritation over some integration proposals. I would like to make it clear that I often express a little frustration, and perhaps sometimes also irritation, about bad suggestions, but not about integration proposals in general. It has been the case that when there are proposals that make people not get to work early and when it comes to proposals that are at the expense of identity clearance and residence, then I have raised objections. But I've also been in the media in the last few days, pointing to the importance of early language training, early competence monitoring, quickly getting people into work, better housing model, etc. It's important to be told, so that the leftover impression from Karin Andersen's line doesn't make me anti-integration. On the contrary. Then to Oslo. I want to talk a little bit about Oslo. I am very pleased that the representative of Bohemia was here now, because in this budget, the government continues one of the most important initiatives in this city: the so-called territorial effort. There's a bet that I and several people have been out talking about several times, that it needs to be renewed. We have to get new dimensions into that bet. In particular, it needs to be more about social mobility, so that individual ability to make an important class trip in Norwegian society. Going from rented homes to their own homes, going to a good school, living in a safe environment, is helping to create this important journey. From an integration point of view, spatial action is very important, but also from an urban development perspective. We saw not long ago that the government now gave a clear signal and has entered into an agreement with Oslo to extend and renew Groruddalssatsingen. Then I hope that the representative of Bøhler – he has at least 3 minutes left of his speaking time – can come up here now and confirm that all the horror propaganda that the Workers' Party has run here in Oslo, that this government did not mean seriously when it was said that it wanted to renew the area operation, did not mean seriously when it was said that it wanted to lift the Groruddalen, quite simply was election campaign, horror propaganda, and that the advertisements they had in that field are now made to shame. I think that the representative, Mr Bøhler, owes Parliament and the citizens of Oslo, because he has almost built up an entire electoral campaign on that type of rhetoric. It was a little important to be told. So to another important part of urban development, as well as area investment: housing. We're talking about housing and that more people need a place to live, so we can start integration. Then we also have to build the dwellings. When this government took over, there was a lag of about 10,000 dwellings per year in relation to population growth. It's this government that, through simplification, modernisation, digitisation and by taking away time thieves, has made us in a situation where we've been speeding up housing, and where more homes are now being built than in many years' time. It may be notified by the housing producers themselves. This government has made the building speed rise as construction costs have fallen. These are things that are absolutely crucial. This belongs to the structural part of what we sometimes just call the cultural integration debate, about values, about cohesion, and which is incredibly important. But these structural parts also have to be in place. We need enough housing. We have to have an area effort that allows the weakest in society to be raised to a better level, so that those living in rental homes can live in their own home, so that we have schools where students do better than students in the rest of the country, even though the schools are in what the Workers' Party calls the bad side of the divided city. This is what I call integration policy in practice. Finally, I will present this challenge to my co-representative representative, Bohemia. Can he now come to the pulpit and say that his frightful propaganda has now been put to shame? There'll be an area bet in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1168	It has been an interesting debate to sit and follow. First of all, I would like to thank both the Committee and the majority for their good cooperation and budget in the area of the Ministry of Local Affairs. We are, like others, in the middle of the greatest refugee crisis since World War II. From the summer we have seen a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway, but before that we had housing and integration challenges, and the number of refugees waiting to settle has been high for a long time. It has been talked about too little, too late, and on which watch things have happened, but it seems that some representatives have forgotten the increase in asylum arrivals and among those who have stayed, which occurred from 2011 to 2013, which led to that in 2013, when this government took over, set over five and a half thousand with a residence permit and waited to get out into a municipality. From that point of view, it turns out that the task of accepting, living and integrating is significant, and that will require quite a lot of us all in the time to come. Both for Norwegian society and for individual refugees, good integration policies are crucial. The aim of the integration policy is for those who have been granted residence to become self-sustaining, contribute to the community and participate in the community. There will be great demands on Norwegian society, but not least on the individual who bears the primary responsibility for being well integrated and getting into work or education. The government has announced that we will present a major communication on integration policy in spring 2016. The notification shall primarily address the situation of refugees and their families in the period following the granting of residence and the first years out in a municipality. The main themes of the notification will be the time in asylum recipients, settlement in municipalities, qualification, education and work, as well as the special situation facing single minor refugees. The government has also announced that we will appoint an expert committee to look at the long-term impact of increased immigration on society. There will be many refugees staying in Norwegian municipalities in the years to come. The estimated need for 2016 is about 18 000, and it includes the 3,000 quota refugees adopted by the Stortinget and 4,000 single minors. Many municipalities have shown great willingness and ability to contribute to this exceptional situation. So far we have lived 41 pst this year. more than what we did in 2014, while it was a historic settlement year. Good cooperation between the State and the municipality is essential if we are to achieve good integration, not least in cooperation with both the business community and the voluntary sector. The government prioritizes the maintenance of the municipalities’ financial framework conditions so that they can carry out good housing and integration work. The government has strengthened the financial instruments for increased housing several times in recent years, and in the 2016 budget we are proposing further reinforcements. The integration grant has not been higher since 2009. We also suggest that municipalities receive an additional grant in 2016 when they settle for more refugees than IMDi's request. We have also proposed strengthening the IMDI by 32 million. kr, which is to go to the directorate's work to increase residence and contact with municipalities. The pilot project launched by the government this year with the people of Hordaland and Eastfold is well under way. There is a large increase in the number of lone minors to be settled. The Government has proposed to strengthen the specific grant received by municipalities in the case of the residence of lone minors, by 25 million. kr, in addition to a lump sum of DKK 100000 for the EMA settled in 2016. Lone minors are a priority group in the housing work. It's important for the government to have that focus, because it's out in a municipality that the children are going to start their lives. The government has also strengthened the monitoring of individual refugee competence by strengthening the capacity of the NOCUT to deal with multiple authorisation applications and to develop more complementary training offers where the need is greater. The government has also continued to invest in Jobsjansen and proposes a total of 97 million. kr to this in 2016. I look forward to having a good discussion about integration measures and the integration message coming to spring. We also need good input from Stortinget to this important work to be done outside the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1194	We are well aware that the Progress Party has a certain tendency to engage in double communication, and also in integration policy are the various signals sent by the government. Retorically, strict and tough demands for participation in the labour market are being made, but political doubts remain over the cash support, despite the fact that last year the SSB presented a report showing that only half of the immigrant women are working after the introduction programme, and despite the fact that the government's own figures show that almost half of the cash beneficiaries have a migrant background. The right thing to do is start with living requirements, but the government's signal is that you stay here long enough, the government will pay you to stay out of work. Does not the Council of State agree that this signal undermines the line of work and that everyone who comes to Norway is going to get a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1201	It is important that the refugees who come and stay are able to become self-sustaining, so that they can be involved and contribute. Therefore, the introduction programme is important for education and work, especially for minority women. I am very pleased that the government has strengthened the job so that more women can get out of work. So the government also works with some tightening up that there is good support in this room, and that's looking at it with living time requirements to get cash benefits. With regard to what the representative here is raising, namely the cash support, it lasts until the child is 23 months, and it is not the cash support that is essential to achieving good integration. If that was so important, the previous government should have done something about the cash support in the eight years that they ruled. It is important to stress that women with a minority background should also be able to have flexibility and freedom of choice appropriate to their families and to be able to avail themselves of the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1210	I think it is alarming that we have an Integration Minister who, among other things, To the magazine Vesterålen in 2013 said: ‘There are some minority families that should have chosen differently’. And she added that ‘you also have to respect the choices made by minority families’. I agree that we should respect choices, but it is a completely different matter if we pay people to stand out from work. That's what's going on. Does the Council of State, which is responsible for integration and for immigrant women, mean that it is okay for taxpayers in Norway to be able to pay mainly immigrant women in order not to participate in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1227	I could have asked exactly the same question to the representative, if she believes that the cash support prevented the integration of the eight years of the Workers' Party into government, and why not the representative was then a great champion to remove the cash support, instead of increasing it. Cash support is important in order for families to have flexibility — a freedom of choice to do what suits each family in the years in which they have young children. But in the work we are doing now, it is important to look at the requirement for living against the cash benefits that are, and then the cash support is also part of it. But I stand by what I said in 2013: Families with a minority background should also have the flexibility to choose solutions that are the best for their family and their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1234	Education is very important in terms of integration. And taking education — getting to school and having their education surveyed — is very important to many of those refugees if they are to be able to get to work quickly. The capital has granted additional money to NOKUT, which is a government agency that has the task of monitoring foreign education. They also know how to do this, they're ready for how to go out in reception and do that job, and they've been in dialogue with the IMF since we did this. Terje Mørland, who is the director of NOKUT, also says that they are ready from 1 January. My question is as follows: Can the Council of State assure the Government that she has given notice – crystal clear – that NOKUT will start this work on 1 January, and as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1243	Now it is the Minister of Knowledge who is responsible for that particular field, but I can assure the representative that in terms of both language and competence, it is important for this government, and I have close cooperation with the Minister of Knowledge on this. We have also increased the budget to monitor the competence of each individual refugee in both my budget and the Minister of Knowledge. And working up for NOCUT is something that is highly prioritised, and that we're already doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1249	It could have been tempting to continue a bit of cash support. I understand that when it's called ‘cash support’, it doesn't promote integration, but if it's called ‘wait money’, it's quite ok, according to some parties in this room. My question concerns the job that Solvency Horne does in terms of housing, and I want from the Christian People's Party to give credit to the Council of State for the work she has done to push on so that the municipalities reside as much as possible. But it's going to be a little bit different from what I'm feeling that her own party leader is expressing. My question is, is it a paradox for the Council of State not to listen to its own party leader regarding the settlement of refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1256	First of all, I want to thank the representative for the rose – it is always fun to get praise at the end of a busy harvest. It has been a historic residence year, and it is thanks to a good cooperation with both the state and municipalities and the work that the municipalities have done. Then I want to stress that it is important for the government to stick to the voluntary settlement system that we have today. If we're going to be able to settle as much as possible, we're going to have to play with the municipalities, and the municipalities themselves know the capacity they have, whether they're doing the settlement and integration work. As Minister of Integration, I have taken up the job for which I have been responsible, and it is to settle those who have been legally resident. Then I also have to listen to what the municipalities need, what are the challenges of the municipalities. I want to hold on to the fact that the most important thing here is to have good dialogue with the municipalities that are going to settle, but we also have to be able to respect the fact that there are municipalities that say that now they need a little break, because they have no more capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1265	I recorded that the Council expressed concern at the reduced municipal willingness to settle single minor asylum seekers. There is a group that more than anyone else needs firm frameworks and secure conditions around it, which the asylum recipients provide to a small extent. I think they are the ones that absolutely should be settled first. The municipalities are clear why they are less able to settle single minors, and they show that very many in this group need follow-up through child protection measures. There has been a scheme in the past that gave a hundred percent reimbursement of costs in addition to the municipal excess. This government has reduced the reimbursement rate to 80 pst, and instead of increasing, the Council of State is now going the opposite way: the proportion is increasing and the reimbursement rate is continued at 80 pst. How will the Council of State defend that the government is weakening the cost coverage of child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers while saying that one of the major challenges in the settlement is that single minors remain in reception for too long?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1274	Last year, 188 lone minors under the age of 15 arrived, until now about 700 have arrived. It's a total of approx. 5000 lone minors who have arrived and are to be settled in a municipality. With those numbers, it says itself that it's a challenge. That's why it's a priority task for the government, and we've asked the municipalities extra to settle single minor refugees. Then I am also aware that the municipalities have refused because there was a reduction in the reimbursement scheme. The municipalities today have 80 pst covered. the cost of child protection measures in the municipalities. Then the government has strengthened the grant to the lone minors for next year, and we did so in 2014, while now we have added NOK 100,000 per year. refugee on the table for those municipalities that want to settle more in 2016. However, this must be in cooperation with municipalities, and other solutions must also be considered, including an assessment of more use of foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1281	Municipalities have to get a hundred percent coverage of their spending to settle these children and young people, otherwise it's not possible. What's very worrying is that there's a lot of people coming now, and those over the age of 15, sitting at reception where there are very few adults. Most of these are boys, and what we know about boys who have no particular hope, and who lack security and belonging in society, is that it often goes bad. If you're not part of a good community, you become a very easy part of a bad one, and if someone is good at integrating, it's criminals. These are young people who really need adults who can take care of, listen to, comfort, forms, bring back when this is on the outside, help you process the evil and build maritime respect and everything that is needed. It is because it is so impossible to understand that the Minister for Children opens up the possibility of fewer adults taking care of some of these children in the future. When we know that today one adult can be responsible for 30 – how does the Minister think this should work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1286	To start with the reimbursement scheme – the previous government provided a budget for 2014 where they also reduced the reimbursement scheme for municipalities by 10 pst. – so they didn't get a hundred percent then either. But leave it. I'm as busy as Andersen's representative that we have to settle for the lone minors, because it's out in a municipality both children and young people are going to start their lives and become a part of the community, make friends and get an education. But in the situation we're in now, because there's going to be so many lonely minors, we've had to look at and get a derogation from the quality code. We know that this is within the Children's Protection Act, so we have opened up that there should be more use of multi-hull rooms, and we also have to look at the crew. But it has to be a good offer for the children and young people who are at care centres, and then we have to strengthen it up against settlement in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1293	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1296	Norway as a nation and our individual municipalities are now facing major challenges. Not everyone is as hard hit yet, but these are challenges that require special action, which together can contribute to further challenges in the form of a so-called negative spiral. These challenges consist, in particular, of a combination of two things: a sharp increase in the influx of refugees, which hits the whole country, is one factor. The reduction in the oil price is the second – a price reduction that has led to high unemployment in some parts of the country, a unemployment we haven't seen for very long, if at all in recent times, and with a forecast that it will go from bad to worse. South and Western countries in particular are facing both of these two challenges. At the same time, the government is deterred from introducing cyclical measures. A waiting-and-see attitude is chosen, especially towards unemployment, which appears to be waiting for problems to be overcome. In addition, we feel that the position in the next year’s government budget prioritizes tax relief in favour of strengthening the local economy. It is immeasurably important that, especially in today's situation, municipalities are able to carry out their tasks satisfactorily. One way to achieve this is to do as the Labour Party has done in its alternative budget, namely to strengthen the municipal sector by 3 billion. kr. In addition, the Labour Party believes that more funding is needed to address the refugee flow challenges. Here we propose to strengthen the economy by a further 1 billion. kr – both in order to receive refugees in a dignified manner, to identify them effectively and effectively and subsequently to ensure that municipalities have resources in the later phase of their settlement and integration. Many municipalities in the South and Western countries face very special challenges in this way. Increased unemployment leads to falling tax inputs, and an increase in the reception of refugees leads to increased expenditure. An example is the municipality of Sandnes, which in November had a projected tax intake of 20 million. kr, while ready to accept refugees at the strong request of the government. To quote the rapporteur in Sandnes, Stanley Wirak, who said to Stavanger Aftenblad: «Now it is little to do for the contractors, for the plumbers, for the electricians, for the carpenters. Thus, it becomes too full with us, believes Wirak, who is surprised that the government is not doing anything." He goes on to say. ‘We must give both gas and brake, but to the seventh and last, the bottom line must have the correct colour.’ There is a high risk that the combination of these challenges will lead to cutbacks in both school, health and care. Then it becomes too easy for negative forces in society to blame the refugees. We will simply argue that a strengthened community economy will also prevent racism and xenophobia, and that is a challenge we really need to take seriously. Furthermore, it is important that the municipalities and county councils are provided with sufficient resources to follow up new arrivals and, where appropriate, to set up additional reception classes, sufficient capacity in secondary school and training, and additional capacity in particular Norwegian training. It is also necessary to ensure the capacity and quality of healthcare provision, and therefore there is a need to strengthen the financial instruments. That is why, in the Labour Party, we have also proposed more measures in our alternative budget. For example, I can. mention increasing the integration grant and improving municipal child protection measures through 90 pst. compensation. Furthermore, we propose to explore a system for specific resource-intensive refugees, and we propose to introduce a basic grant of NOK 100000 to the municipalities when establishing new receptions. Here, as mentioned earlier, we are proposing to strengthen the economy by 1 billion. kr. As the President understands, in the Labour Party, we are far from satisfied with this budget's commitment to the municipal sector and expect the country's population to discover this over the coming year and take note of it towards the 2017 elections. Not everything is due to the refugee situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1319	Even if we go into a time when it's pretty dark in my part of the country, we're now inside a time of many points of light. It goes well in the north, and the potential is far from being taken out if we get the necessary drag help. Already we contribute with significant export income and value creation per. The population of AS Norway is increasing and opportunities are increasing. After many years of vision for the north, we now see that it is finally being invested in the region. After many years of talking about the possibilities in the northern regions, we now have a policy that takes up the rural areas. This creates activity and growth. At the beginning of December, the vacancy figures for Troms came. They have not been lower since November 2012. Only 2 out of 100 are available, and the Nav director in Troms asks the unemployed to look northwards in their search for a job. This is undoubtedly joyous. At the same time, it is important to take inwards that Norway is in the most challenging situation in several decades. The situation requires political accountability, and then it is good that we have a government that dares to take political action and that ensures the necessary conversion. Then it is good that we have a government, which – together with the Left and the Christian People's Party – has a responsible economic policy that strengthens Norwegian competitiveness in order to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society, as opposed to the Workers' Party, which has chosen to budget with air money, and where political promises really need to be lubricated with more oil money, not less, as they claim. The option may be increased taxes on Norwegian ownership. If we are to ensure lasting well-being, we must create more – not more taxes. Therefore, we are now discussing a budget that promises Municipality of Norway, contributes to more people working, ensures increased activity and demands necessary conversion. We focus on research, further education three times as many thousands of teachers each year, take early steps in primary school, take action for increased quality in kindergartens, contribute to a health and hospital sector that places the patient in the centre, invests heavily in infrastructure, reduces Norwegian special taxes, increases Norwegian competitiveness – yes, we do a lot. For example, the county roads have: had a large maintenance kit after many years of lack of priorities. They constitute important links to European pathways for the transport of many marine food billions. Just over the Gisundet in Senja in Troms, there are 1.2 million fish meals a day. Then it is gratifying that the new majority in Great Britain has now stepped up the appropriations, so that for 2016 we have more than doubled the efforts on the county roads compared to the annual ambitions of the red-green NTP. In particular, efforts to strengthen the knowledge society have been made by the bourgeois parties. There is a commitment to vocational training and, for the fifth time, the apprenticeship allowance is increased, which has now increased by NOK 15 000 per contract. In addition, more apprentices are required in state establishments and public tenders should now be made in order to put in place more apprentices. Apprenticeships with special needs receive increased support. Practical letters are required in all counties. Vocational correction of the common subjects continues. Vocational training is offered to trainers. Yes, the government has now set up five trade unions to land an even more relevant composition of the professions against the needs of industry and society. The vocational schools, too, are getting a stronger commitment. The teaching materials for maritime subjects are in the budget. There are higher quality requirements for the sector, and I look forward to 2016 as a vocational school year and to the upcoming major report. When Norway is in transition, the future will require more skilled workers. The central statistical agency estimates that Norway will lack 110 000 skilled workers in construction, electronics and mechanical engineering in 2030. So, as the bourgeois parties pointed out in the opposition, we've been overtime with a professional investment for quite a long time. Finally, we have had a change of pace in the focus on knowledge and research, and vocational training is given a proper boost and political focus. Now it is important that the county councils, such as school owners and industry, help us to take this potential out through our efforts, get more people to complete and pass higher education and ensure Norway many skilled workers for the future. There is little doubt that the reforms and political action taken by the government towards the municipality of Norway will help build good welfare services, equip Norway for the future and strengthen our ability to adapt. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we contribute to strengthening the local authorities' ability to be for the inhabitants. Our solutions and ideas will make Norway better equipped to meet a future where we need more economic engines, and where we use our tax money smarter, so that we can continue to be sure that welfare systems can be strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1338	Much has already been said in the debate on local economy, municipal structure and the special situation we are in with regard to refugees. I am therefore right on the theme I want to address in my post: the offer of education given to refugees, and the use of the competence of refugees. All children are entitled to schooling within three months of their arrival in Norway. Municipalities shall provide a well-adapted offer to the individual. This means several reception places in primary school, several places for refugees in secondary school, both professional and specialisation, university and continuing education of a more general nature. In addition, the Norwegian education system has other services, such as the national colleges, the study federations and the vocational schools. This whole system needs to be able to provide the necessary professional and linguistic competence, so that refugees are able to get to work and work as quickly as possible. We agree on this – so far perfectly fine. But does that happen? No, no, no. Then I'll take the most seriously first. We are many politicians, and others, of course, who read newspapers and hear personal reports about children and young people who have been here for months without offer. Some receive Norwegian training, but very few — if any — offer school in the transit phase. There are many children, both those who come with family, and the lone minors who are going to stay here in Norway, who are going to be in transit receptions much longer than what is meant. These can and will work well in society later if we do it right now. But if we don't, it can cost you very much. It's urgent, both for individuals and for society as a whole. The government is aware of the problem. Recently, the Ministry of Knowledge went out and was quite clear on the following: first, all children are entitled to school from day one. Secondly, it is the responsibility of the municipalities. Thirdly, the Ministry has now published a list which they will consider, including: that applicants for asylum with learning competence shall contribute. That's a good idea. In an exceptional situation that we now have, it might be tricked. But how is that going to happen? This will assume that there are people who find out who at the receptions are teachers and not teachers. Then NOKUT is the right organisation. They have received money in the next year's budget, which we were in the exchange of replies, but they have also been told clearly that they will not identify those who have not completed their application. I'll tip it off is a good part of those we're talking about here, who are Syrian asylum seekers who are going to be dealing with their application late, and who are just teachers. So now the Council of State, the Red Isaac, should agree with itself to find out whether to map Syrian teachers or not, and whether this is a system we can use or not. It's a shame we're going to spend time on this, because it's urgent. In Hattfjelldal lives Amin. That's where the class struggle has been and visited him. He's six years old. He came to Norway in June, and he hasn't been to school one day. He thinks there is something wrong with him since he is not offered school, and he sees the Norwegian children go to school every day. Why is that so? The reception manager didn't know there were two boys in six and twelve years of age living there, until the class fight told me about it. At the school in Hattfjelldal they didn't know about these guys either. It makes me deeply concerned. Everyone understands that it will take a lot of people to build schools. There may be municipalities that have to hire a lot of new teachers, it might not be enough premises, etc. But that you don't even know about these children – then we have a very long way to go. I don't think that's good enough, simply. A lot of people in this group we're talking about now are going to stay. If they become inactive for a long time – and half a year is quite a long time for a young child who is only six years old – it will be problematic over time. It is an independent goal that as soon as possible start activity as possible with education, schooling, Norwegian courses or work – that is important. The younger the refugees, the more urgent it is to put in place a custom offer. The most important thing now is to give these people something meaningful to do, we're going to succeed in integration. Without Norwegian and without school, these kids don't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1361	Common to many of us is that we have a background from local politics, either from local government, city government or county councils. This is my first period in Stortinget, but I have a long seagoing period from local policy and business, including eight years as rapporteur. Why do I mention this? Yes, because I want to focus on some of the challenges I experienced as rapporteur in a small municipality in the North-West during the period 2003-2011. It was two years of bourgeois government and six years of red-green government. Let me state immediately: I do not remember in the description of the representative Helga Pedersen who came with earlier today about the municipality's operating room under the red-green government. This may be related to the fact that the representative focuses only on the income side of the municipalities and does not take into account the costs. That luxury doesn't have our local politicians. In my eight years as rapporteur, I felt that the tasks the municipalities were expected to do were increasing. I think that's good, as problems are best solved close to the population. But it challenged both the professional environment and the economy of the municipalities. Every year during the budgetary procedure, we felt that we had too little money to solve the problems, even though the macro figures showed real growth in revenue. We had to give priority. As a small municipality, we became very vulnerable to change. Small changes could make a big impact. The freedom of action of the municipality was restricted by increasing the level of rights-holding, new national leadership and objectives and increased the number of objections. Power was transferred from municipality to state. The wear and tear of local democracy grew, because we felt that we had less and less to say, and a random bureaucracy at County or Riksantikvaren could in principle overrun local democracy. Then we would like to spend time discussing the real growth of income, and I am happy that the government and the cooperation parties are following up with a good municipal budget for 2016. But out of respect for local politicians around the country, we cannot do as the representative Helga Pedersen and use most of the contributions to compare revenue in 2012 and 2014 and then draw a conclusion from it. It's going to be too easy. If we are to discuss the area of action of the municipalities, we also need to address the cost growth, changes in the task portfolio, new state requirements and guidelines, bureaucracy related to planning and objections, and other factors affecting the real freedom of action of the municipalities. Therefore, the government’s simplification reform is important in order to eliminate unnecessary time thieves and release resources for service production. Much has changed in the last 50 years, and progress is increasing. Road, track and collective are being built up to make everyday regions bigger. What was previously a long journey is now within what we can call a natural commuter distance. However, there are still major challenges in the transport sector. The government and the cooperation parties implement a historic trade promise where building strong housing and labour market regions is central. It will help to strengthen value creation and facilitate growth and development across the country. Technological developments are taking place at a formidable pace. Norway is one of the highest broadband countries. That means that we can make use of technology quickly. Distance is not only about physical infrastructure but also about digital infrastructure. New technologies provide new opportunities for municipalities and will provide citizens with completely new services and improved quality of supply in the coming years. I mention this because this also matters to the action rooms of the municipalities. Where the Workers' Party reduces this discussion to become a debate on the size of the framework transfers and taxes, the Government and the Cooperation Parties take action that affects the costs of municipalities and the quality of service provision. We are implementing a completely necessary community reform that will mean increased local democracy, more power for the municipalities and increased freedom of action for our local politicians. It'll make a difference. We agree that municipalities should have good and predictable revenues. It has been provided by the government and the cooperation parties in three budgets. But we also need to be able to do the other grips that are important to the action rooms of the municipalities. Unfortunately, the opposition is hanging there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1383	In the fight against the ever-growing and serious unemployment, the municipality can play a very important role – if we want to. But that's where the majority in this room lacks it. Better urban economy provides better welfare services, but it can also provide more jobs, and many compared to what is now happening: cutbacks. A better economy also provides the municipality with more opportunities to contribute to more jobs in the private sector, such as large purchases of many services, and to facilitate business. We usually focus most on the welfare tasks of the municipality – school, kindergarten, health, care, etc. - Of course. However, for increased value creation and for creating more jobs, the local government’s business-oriented efforts are also very important. It requires resources to carry out good land, construction and infrastructure planning and to provide services and follow-up to existing businesses and businesses in the start-up phase. Many municipalities often cooperate in good partnership with the county. Regional development funds are well included. Unfortunately, the bulk of the population has made a big cut. I really think the government will remove the whole scheme. It is good that the Christian People's Party and the Left things to hold back a little – I underline a little. For example, in Møre and Romesdal, the blue-blue government has reduced regional development funds by 40 pst. since they came to power in 2013. ==References== 50 million. Jan Tore has Sanner and co. taken from this state of affairs in such means. There is a lot of money to lose for a county that has had an increase in unemployment since October of 35 p.m. This is simply countering District Norway. At the same time, when the county council gets a tougher economic environment, it becomes more and more demanding to get to the offensive development work you want to do and that so many regions so badly need. The daily life of the primary municipality is also marked by savings in areas by region, and the basic services must be given priority if municipal politicians are not able to carry out these tasks as they wish. It will be smaller for many other purposes, including: to the development of economic activity. Municipalities and county councils can provide work to more people in a short time and in areas where there is a clear need for society. It is not foolish to bet vigorously on the municipality now, not least in the light of the refugee situation. It's time for bruteness, not just to the richest of the country. I hear the representatives of the government here in the debate boasted of the municipal structure next year. It's too bad. The framework for the Community municipal solution must be seen in relation to the enormous use of oil money, which, together with tax cuts, is the trademark of this government. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is number one. The Labour Party has proposed 4 billion. kr more than the government of the municipalities and county councils, as said earlier. It's a good combination, because the municipalities are one of our very best tools in the fight against unemployment – once again, if we want to. The budget of the Workers' Party would provide the county municipality with 600 million. NOK more of the total of 2 billion. kr we have extra in free income. The county council has a concession, so to speak, for the sitting government has not exactly taken care of the county council duties since it took over. It is about young people who need to be guaranteed good and decentralised training, more apprenticeships to have enough skilled workers in the future, roads that need to be better and safer, new roads that need to be built, and much more. Stine Renate Håheim said, "We want to play with the municipalities." The possibility of raising the municipalities has never been greater than now. We could really give them more space for action. Why can't we give municipalities and county councils more armaments, so that they could on a broad front go offensively to work for a worthwhile welfare offer, to invest in children and young people and in the future, to get unemployed people in jobs where there is a great need – yes to promote business development and value creation? This must be far more important than big tax cuts to the richest, those that have the most from before. Have you heard this before? I know I've said it before, and we're a lot of people who say it. And to those of you who are responsible for this error priority: it can't be said too often.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1402	The story of Norway is the story of how we have jointly met the challenges ahead of us and seized the opportunities of investing in and building up — not weakening — the community. What we know today has not come of itself. That is the result of a continuous transition and of good and proper political choices. We're in a time that requires a lot of us. Climate challenges put the world community to the test. Terrorism and war create great fear, sending thousands of millions of people on the run. Where we in the Labour Party set up our policies to best meet and solve these challenges in the context of the community, we have a government that is taking steps to take Norway in the wrong direction, and that meets many of these challenges with wrong medicine – and in part reinforces them. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is number one. High employment, combined with a serious organised work life, is a prerequisite for societies with small differences. It also provides income to the community that can finance education, health care and infrastructure, and gives important advantages to companies competing in an international market. It forms the basis for one of the policy’s most important tasks — to protect individuals and the family. A prerequisite for people's freedom is that these basic social structures work – that people can feel secure for homes, jobs and homes. It's about choosing a social model. We see that the government is pursuing a policy that is moving in the wrong direction – away from what characterises our country. They pursue policies that put pressure on people and families, with more use of temporary employment, with Sunday-open shops, which weaken the balance of work, and make it more difficult to plan everyday life and the future. They give priority to cash support over kindergartens and cottages in the Dad quota rather than making it easier for fathers to get into everyday life at home. This government represents two lost years on the kindergarten front. They started cutting into 7 000 kindergartens. In 2014, we had, for the first time since kindergarten, reconciled fewer children in kindergarten than in the previous year. The cows are growing. The election vow was a continuous recording - there was nothing of it. The majority in this room have also had to force the government to get on the track with a plan for what is most important for increased quality in kindergarten, namely more and better qualified adults. So in the challenges we are facing, with major integration tasks, it's amazing that the government is choosing to free cash support, a system that acts as a direct integration inhibitor, the most exported system. There is a long way to go between talking and practice, including on the part of the Progress Party. If we're to succeed in the integration tasks we're facing, we have to bet on volunteering. The Labour Party has a voluntary package in our budget. It's about taking care of what we value so much. Voluntary activities and sport contribute invaluablely to good growth conditions, strong communities and integration, to building the community. We're going to spend almost 400 million dollars. more than the government of the Children's and Youth's organisations, of the Free Fund, of sports facilities, volunteer centres, etc. The major challenges we are facing in terms of unemployment, climate and refugee situations are only solved by stronger communities. Here, volunteering is crucial – all those who are now in local, learning languages, including in the community, and preventing people from being kept in isolation. Volunteering and sport are the ones we now have to call about, support and give the opportunity to do more. In all these areas, the government fails by only creating increased unforeseeableness and increased insecurity — in politics, but also in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1413	Municipalities are the main provider of welfare services. Therefore, it is so important that the municipalities are rigged to take their responsibilities, and that the means available to the municipality are sufficient to lift the commitments they have towards their people. Then it is alarming that the government does not finance the municipalities so that they are actually able to pay. The distribution between municipalities is also very problematic. In my part of the country there are only a few municipalities that come out a little better than before with government arrangements. The vast majority of people get out worse, and that's why the Workers' Party is adding another three billion. kr on the table of municipalities in 2016, in addition to the government budget. Municipalities have a high level of care, health and well-being obligations. It is too poorly reflected in the policy of government. There's a gap between what you say you want to do, for example. in different sized messages and plans, and how to allocate resources and what money is allocated. In these days, the challenges are particularly great for those municipalities that have been given a rather sudden responsibility for a significant number of asylum seekers. There is reason to praise both municipal management and residents for the way in which this situation has been met, despite the fact that the reception has been done almost overnight and often without the community management being informed. But the municipalities have several major challenges. We know that it's getting older, especially now that the great post-war coals become pensioners, and even though most of us will keep us healthy and fast longer than before, many of the oldest become more fragile, and many become demented. So society in general and we elected people in particular must be aware of where the big money is going, and then we must call about the Community solutions and have good governance tools that can ensure that welfare services come to everyone, regardless of their status and their place of residence. In other words, the challenges in the care sector are many, and I would like to say more about it when we debate the health budget on Monday. But here and now I would like to point out that there are opportunities that can deal with demographic change wisely, and that we have so far not used sufficiently. We like to use the combined term welfare technology for various technical aids and solutions that can improve quality of life and create a safer and simpler everyday life for patients and users. Welfare technology strengthens the individual’s ability to manage in self-contained housing, improves the ability to communicate with the outside world, and facilitates the work of health and care professionals. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has proposed to allocate 156 million. kr to welfare technology. We believe it is essential that solid and targeted action is now taken to implement good and adapted technological solutions in welfare technologies in municipalities. It was the red-green government that showed the way in this field, and I noticed with interest that the government still refers to the Report. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s care, which Stortinget adopted in spring 2013. I can understand – and I am actually very pleased – that the government is inspired by this forward-looking message, which was both innovative and visionary in the thinking of services, and which had suggestions for good, concrete action. But one thing is to be inspired; I am more uncertain about the power of action of the government in this area. We were many who noticed that, among other things. The main business organisation in the health budget consultation was concerned that the roll-out of welfare technology solutions is too slow and that the financial instruments are too weak. The NHO also pointed out that the co-financing of ICT projects proposed by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation is too poor and that the scheme must be made available to the municipalities. Concerned messages also emerged when Minister of Health Bent Höie recently presented the Action Plan for the Research and Innovation Strategy Health Care21, where several pointed out that the plan is weak in particular in the area of municipal health, and that much more targeted action is needed in terms of both the economy and competence to bring about innovation also in the municipal sector. The working party has taken the lead in a commitment to welfare technology and ICT in health and care. We have explained the reason politically, we have put money on the table and proposed important measures in the field. We're going to follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1434	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1437	When I have listened to the debate and the representatives of the government parties, it actually confirms the impression that the government parties often live in an alternative political reality where nothing happened before and now everything is going so much better, where there are no problems anywhere and no criticism to hear. If you open a newspaper, for example. from my part of the country, one cannot avoid reading about cuts in the local economy, and then there is school and care for the elderly that are at risk when the economy is not good enough. In addition, we have a situation where, in particular, the three Nordic states have been given a major task of receiving and integrating refugees. So the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party say that the local economy is not a problem. That is what they say, among other things. in spite of large cuts in the north. And I heard that the representative Gudmundsen from the Right believed that the government is taking action for conversion and is pursuing a responsible economic policy. It was an absurd notion, for what is then the greatest and most important grip? Well, it's a juicy cut for the three Northern Norwegian states of no less than 754 million. kr per year – through cuts in regional development funds, through a new income system. The government is showing this that they don't really understand North Norway. Luckily – may I say – things are going well in the north now. Fortunately, northern and northern policy and industry are so robust that they survive even a few years with the Right and the Advance Party, but it should be worrying that the Right and the Advance Party are now reducing the national divide and the ability of local peoples to rule themselves. Cuts in regional development funds are one example of this. This money can be used by local elected representatives much better, much smarter and much more effectively than if we send them through the State Council of Sanners. In the north, for example, not the construction of NorthNorwegian Travel Life AS or Arctic Race of Norway has been possible without regional development funds. When the representative Øyvind Korsberg of the Progress Party in the media is to defend this cut, he justifies it, among other things. with the refugee situation. I have to say that is an embarrassing explanation. These cuts have long been on the Advance Party and the Right, and they began to cut long before we saw a single refugee crossing the borders of Storskog. Not to stand for what you do is simply political cowardice. And if someone from the government parties is wondering why both I and others with me are reacting to this, it's because it comes to the top of another development where we see a wide range of proposals on centralization and de-employment, for example. in the Fisheries Directorate, the Veterinary Institute, the Food Authority, the Tax Office, plans for the centralisation of Innovation Norway, the removal of universal service, and thus the state budget comes to the top of the whole. If the government parties have not heard the criticism of this, it is nothing less than alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1450	This government understands North Norway very well, and it understands Norway very well. That shows the budget we have for debate today. It is a budget that is inadequate; it is a budget that has ring-fenced effects far beyond the responsibility of this department. It is a budget designed for activity, transformation and work. We see that state-building is actively being used against cyclical policy. 500 million. are set aside for maintenance in municipalities, schools and nursing homes. This government took over a maintenance allowance in prison for about 4 billion. kr. This is what this government is doing through the active use of State Building. It's set at 170 million. in addition to the standard annual maintenance amount in the prison sector. It's going to be the results. The problem is that the level of maintenance in the prison sector is so high that it is disproportionately expensive, and there is a permanent risk of detainment of detention centres. Increased activity in the construction industry also poses a risk to unprofessional operators. There we have seen that this government in this budget is taking active action against such a situation. It'll be easier to be serious. On Monday, there was a notice in the Evening Post that a central authorisation system was introduced from 1 January 2016, where you can see whether suppliers have actually paid their taxes and taxes, and that you will not have to walk the road to a historical tax certificate that does not show the current picture. The refugee situation needs to be addressed through both integration policy and justice policy. The integration policy is duly described in today's debate, but I would like to remind you of a few important actions taken in the area of justice: 371 new police officers until next year to explicitly address the increased flow of refugees, and over 200 million. to strengthen the Police Foreign Unit for better ID control, registration and returns. In sum, the measures contained in the budget of this department and in the budget of the Ministry of Justice are very powerful measures to deal with the situation we are facing, and we already see that the results are reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1463	I continue my post on behalf of the Christian People's Party. We want to give more priority to those who need it the most. There are over 6,000 homeless people in Norway, and the number is increasing most in the group between 18 and 24 years of age. In addition, many people struggle to obtain and maintain housing. Children’s protection is on their way out of institutions and also has problems. The same is true of addicts. Especially for those who have had problems in an earlier phase of life, it will be essential to have own housing and stable conditions. There is a great need for more homes for disadvantaged people today – both in cities and districts – and many are in line. I hope we can get to a system and look at it more closely. Otherwise we have the Husleietvist committee, which today works in Oslo, in Akershus, in Hordaland and in South and North Trøndelag. In the other counties, there are similar cases today before the Conciliation Council. However, a socio-economic independent analysis shows that the legal certainty of the parties is better ensured in the Husleietvist Committee than in the Conciliation Council, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that there can now be an extension of that arrangement. The Christian People's Party recalls that the conversion of the income system for county municipalities was dramatically affected by some district districts, and the distances became large, especially for those with ferry and boat connections. We're glad we got 60 million in place. kr, and is satisfied that the loss compensation is thereby enhanced for these counties and that the 2015 distribution model is extended. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this time the government did not propose to weaken the level of compensation of municipalities for resource-intensive services. We are aware that this number is increasing, and it is a goal in terms of the individual human being and the social economy that a person prevents and reduces that need. In very many cases, this is about real service needs for severely damaged and severely disabled people. It is desirable that these services not be reduced, and one should wish that we also had a scheme for them over 67 years of age. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the budgetary agreement involves a free core-time system in kindergartens. I would also like to remind you that in the budget we have received a supplement for the municipality of South Varanger in connection with the extra burden they have suffered from the situation over Storskog. I would also like to mention that we are particularly satisfied with the apprenticeship grant, which has actually increased by a total of NOK 15 000 in two years. Then it's the county councils, which have got a better income system, which is to be phased in over five years. They have received the loss compensation I mentioned earlier. Finally, I will draw attention to the Sameting. Unfortunately, there was only an index adjustment. We look forward to an update of Saemien Sijte when it comes to revision. There were things we didn't get through, but we're very proud that we got Sami newspapers in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1489	The community health service provides the basis for our health and care services. Prevention among children and young people is particularly important. Early intervention is one of the most important health investments and also helps to balance social inequalities. The Labour Party has visited different health research environments and asked them what is the most important thing we should bet on that will bring the greatest health benefit. The answer was actually a little surprising. It was one school meal every day for all children. It is primarily directed towards lifestyle diseases. Something else that increases is mental illness, especially among children and young people. Low-threshold services are important here. Here, we've also used knowledge. 70 pst. mental disorders occur when children are from 12 years of age until they are a little over 20 years of age, when they are not children anymore. It's exactly in that period that it's so important to have an offer as when children on their own premises. The working party has never been a member of the ear tag. But we're sitting with the knowledge that here in the Stortinget we've allocated significant amounts of money to the school health service, but still we're only halfway on the goal of 430, I think it's, new health sisters, while there's a need of 800. If we had earmarked the money instead, we would have almost reached the goal today. As a big business politician, I have had good dialogue with my municipal representatives in the municipalities that take social responsibility, and there are many of them. I have to say, I am really impressed with the mobilization we have seen in accepting refugees, and in accepting asylum. It is important that we are able to compensate the municipalities that take this responsibility, because there are significant expenditures, especially in the area of health. We have recorded that in the case of tuberculosis on reception, screening works quite well. But we've also recorded swine flu. One must always be in the forefront and use the knowledge that you have, so that the municipalities get to grips with the problem, whenever it comes. I have also received feedback that those who have asylum recipients would like to receive a clear instruction on what minimum information they should provide to the municipalities. It is also relevant with regard to what Marianne Aasen mentioned earlier here today, about children and young people who need a school offer. Of course, I'm worried about those who are going to sit there for a long time. Having an activity offer is essential, including in terms of health promotion for those on reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1502	Work until all are jobs. 1st@item: inlistbox That is the message and objective of the Workers' Party's alternative budget. To achieve this objective, a good local economy is essential. That is why the Workers' Party proposes 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities. Prioritisation of funds for municipalities is primarily important for expanding welfare services — such as school, kindergarten, etc. – but it will also be important to put people into work at a time of increasing unemployment. The government continues to spend large sums of money on tax cuts. Rather, they should use them to combat increasing unemployment and basic welfare services. I have registered today that it is a fight for who has given the most to the municipalities, or who is perhaps the municipality's best friend. I think the numbers speak for themselves. We already knew that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not want to include the tax input – or the missing tax input – in their calculations. This was confirmed as they would not be involved in compensating for the tax failure in 2014. But it's not that simple. For a municipality a krone is a krone, even if it comes from tax, or as in 2014 – when it did not come. Right-wing representative Frank J. Jenssen spoke earlier today about the importance of predictability for the municipalities. It is not very predictable whether the tax entrance fails and it will not be compensated. As a long-standing municipal politician and rapporteur, I know how difficult it is to get budgets into port, and it is tough with tight frameworks. I have also traveled a lot in our county this summer and autumn, and there is no doubt that there are major challenges in the municipalities, regardless of who controls and has controlled. Municipal governments throughout the country are now adopting their budgets for 2016 and the financial plan for 2016–2019. Here's the reality that you don't plan what you're going to bet on and build on. No, the main challenge is where to cut. I recommend both the Sanner Council and the government parties to read the locals, if they haven't, and see what the debate is about today. The government continues its anti-district policy. I have a couple of examples. Regional development funds have been mentioned and cut each year. Another example is the new cost keys of the county. In my home country, Nordland, you will lose $284 million. kr from 2019 if nothing is done about this. So far it seems that there's little willingness to solve this. Another example of the economy is that the government actually freezes the small municipal grant in 2016. Is there anything we can expect as a first warning about the new income system coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1513	In previous articles, I have praised the government for the major reforms in the public sector, simplifying, renewing and streamlining. We politicians in this committee are also working on very exciting policies and reforms that are important to our country. Immigration, integration, municipal reform and regional reform are the main issues, and we are privileged to participate in shaping this policy. What has happened in the field of immigration and integration in the last few months, with a strong political agreement on narrowing immigration policy, is good. It is now necessary to reach a large agreement on integration policy as well. The other major reforms we are working with are also important. The red-green government used large resources early in the 21st century to bring about a comprehensive regional reform. She's still in a solid stomach place where all the visions boiled away in the cabbage. It might be worth remembering when we're now in the process of a municipal reform. The government party and the cooperation party have seen new momentum in this reform work, and it is with great joy that I see that my own home country has seen itself in the driver's seat in order to put in place a large Western region. The last major reform that this committee is working on is the community reform. Our committee may be involved in facilitating a community reform that will help to secure the citizens of municipalities with good municipal services with a high level of competence in the future. It will also help to facilitate local value creation and secure jobs, thus ensuring the welfare of the future. I'm proud of the government that facilitates a community reform based on 'yellow roots' and free will. I think it's crucial to get a good cooperation in larger municipalities, which can give trust and growth power over time. I am also proud of the enthusiasm and offensive attitude of local politicians in this work. These local politicians are entrepreneurs and women who want to control the development itself. For one thing is safe: it does not pass. There is a broad consensus that there must be a comprehensive community reform. Nevertheless, only the government party and the cooperation party are really actively involved in this work, and that is a pity. I can't see anything in this reform that means that the Labour Party can't be involved in this. A nuance of what is coerced is not enough reason to drop this work. There is also not enough reason for the Labour Party to jump from not wanting to contribute to the fact that a government itself is not a part of it, to close it with such a big reform. This requires a national reform momentum, the same as we saw in the past. in the field of police reform. I mean it's cowardly of the Workers' Party not to be involved in getting the municipal reform safely in port. I hope they will use Christmas to reconsider this and join in the important work on a new municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1533	As has been said many times in the debate, of course, the refugee situation poses many challenges for all of us. That is why it has been good with the comparisons and good with the negotiations that are now taking place between the parliamentary leaders. That's good, because this is a national challenge that we can only solve nationally. But now when I take the floor, it is to say that this consensus, which I believe is very important and constructive for Norway, is apprehended by claims that the situation has arisen because of the refugee agreement here in the Grand Duchy of 8,000 refugees. I think that is a clear example of what we have seen in very many contexts, and as we see consistently almost every day – how the Progress Party, which is now a government party, doubles in all contexts. That's why the situation is created, says Njåstad at the beginning of the debate. So he does not take on board the great perspectives that we now have across Europe, with which all countries have a thorough challenge. It is typical for the kind of parties across Europe to try to create a structural discussion out of what is really a moral question. I say this because I want to challenge Njåstad and others to the end of this debate on this Saturday to discuss whether it is not the morality of the issue that is the most important – that Norway should maintain its culture as a humanistic nation – and not make this issue a structural issue. I would also like to ask the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left: do they think it's okay that Njåstad says such things? Do they think it's age-old that he does it? Do they think there's anything to back up about, or are there just people like me going up and making marks on this? I don't think that discussion should end until we know where the Christian People's Party and the Left stand in such a context. Time doesn't allow me to go too far into what Ingerd Schou said, but it's in the same category. I have to say, it surprises me very much that the right goes into such a race. I remind the representative Schou of what her own State Council, the State Council Helgesen, said about what Norway is doing, and the approval we get in the EEA and in the EU in that context. She is in confrontation with Helgesen when she pronounces herself as she does, and I would like to hear that she comments on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1546	There are a lot of things you could think of, but first I need to say a little bit about local economy. We in SV have the strongest municipal economy, in sum approx. 6 B.C.E. kr more than the government, and we also have in some far greater free incomes, so it's very strange when the government council Sanner is talking about that earmarking is a big problem. The government is earmarking money for child protection, e.g. The fact that we earmark money for health sisters is simply because we have seen that money that is not earmarked for this, does not necessarily go to health sisters. SV believes that there should be more health sisters, as this is necessary. But with our proposal, the municipalities would have far more freedom to carry out the tasks they believe are right, for our free revenues amount to 4 billion. kr more than the government. Then it is not useful to say that there are smaller arms with the SV's budget. So to immigration policy: I think it's a very sad situation we see here. The representative Kolberg was a little bit into it instead. It's a refugee crisis that can only be solved by taking responsibility for the whole thing, helping more in the neighbourhoods, not just by saying it at home, but by actually doing it. It is a long way to go until Norway meets the requirements of the aid organisations, until the efforts we should have made there. People are forced to flee, because it is no longer possible to be there. I don't think anyone in this room had been sitting quietly with their kids or grandchildren in such a situation. You'd have gone. And then you have to hear that this is something that rages across us, and that's something really horrible. I would also like to remind you of what the representative of Stine Renate Håheim said, which is the only one who goes up here and reminds us that we live in a safe country, and perhaps the representative in this room who is hit hardest by terror in this country. She's at least one of them. It sounds as if others think we are now hit by something terrible. But it's the refugees who's been hit. What's sad now is that you sign up for a race to the bottom. It is important to tighten up and tighten up – not in immigration policy, but in integration policy, because that is what you do. It should make it worse to get protection in Norway. Denmark does, Sweden does. Everyone's fighting now because you can't find a European solution to it. I miss those parties that otherwise point to European solutions to solve such tasks. We would have needed that now, but instead you choose to cut the refugees and blame those who want to keep up the humanitarian tradition in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1559	I am satisfied with the answer given by the Council of State, Sanner, who gave me a reply, to make everyday life easier with a community merger. Not least in the counties. In our alternative budget, we point to examples in Sogn and Fjordane. Other examples include places where regions within the current counties are bound together. The undersigned has long pointed out and addressed challenges around the county economy. For this reason, we have also further strengthened the loss compensation for the districts, especially for Nordland, Sogn and Fjordane, and not least for Nord-Trøndelag. This sees the Left as essential in order to provide a good offer in higher education. It may not be an objective for students to stay as far away from home as possible. From a district perspective, it is good to mention that I am also very pleased with the escalation we are now receiving from the study support. It is gratifying for students and not least for district youth, who then have the same opportunity as the urban ones, knowing that they are absent. This is a step in the right direction, with evenly adjusted possibilities. Yesterday's answer is not necessarily what is applicable in the context of a community reform. One has to look at regional reform at the same time. The best way to slow down or reverse centralisation is just to focus on regions to achieve balanced growth across the country. This is done by focusing on regional nodes. Today's structure is not strong enough to give a balanced growth in the future. Here's a lot of good examples in that way. Here you can mention the Lottery Authority in Förde, which is an excellent example of a regional place that is a little smaller than the big cities. But, of course, a large enough housing and labour market is absolutely necessary, so the medicine that has been prescribed in the previous years is not the one that should be in force. We need new medicine. The representative, Kolberg, comes with some challenges at the end of his speech. That's not necessarily all that's equally good, I'll be clear on that. It is a refugee crisis we are facing, and the Left has been clear for a long time that there is a common European virtue that needs to be done. As I pointed out in my article – here we need to see the big contexts. It is clear that these are people who suffer, and people who are refugees, and Norway also has to take responsibility here. It can't be that we push this under the carpet, and it's just problematic that we get new people in. We also have to think about our story, when we needed a country to travel to. Then Sweden opened the doors gradually. We also have to think about that this isn't a short term that just goes over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1570	I hear more from the government parties – the Advance Party and the Right – are up here mumbling about the development of nutrition. I understand that they are muttering, because now they are taking away regional development money, a lot of money, which would have just gone into business development, social development, in the municipalities – an important thing that should be discussed and done more. While the government parties say that economic development is one of the most important things we can do, they introduce a fiscal tax that endangers economic development and that only in my own county, Eastfold, puts hundreds of jobs at risk, on a national basis several thousand, and that weakens the development of industry. Talk about changing policies! Talk about talking to at least two tongues! Talk about surpriseing your own voters! The electorate of the Progress Party is as easy as it can be: the Progress Party – now as the Party of Charges for Increased State Fees, the Advance Party – now as the party to weaken industrial development. It probably didn't see the voters of the Advance Party coming. Then I just have to say to the representative Ingerd Schou, has she not understood anything when she goes to the pulpit in the main hall and says that we should grant a work permit before the ID is cleared? I think the representative Schou is speaking against better knowledge. She must understand for herself that people should work in this country, they must have an identification. They have to pay taxes – just as an example. So they have to stop doing that. Then I register from those who belong to the majority of the draft budget, that there is no enthusiasm to trace in defending the document they are behind. It's very labyrinth. They are largely concerned about talking about the things they were primarily for, but to which they did not get, and of talking about the opposition of others. There is no enthusiasm to trace, and perhaps we can trace that to the fact that we find no direction in the draft budget. It's not a whole, it's more about, from the government parties' and the budgetary parties' – to call them that – advocates to defend their own little victories and explain their own losses. It is possible to vote for something else, of course they are not going to do that, but I say once again that the Labour Party's budget proposal would provide greater opportunities for business development, and it would provide a better response, overall, to the challenges we face in 2016 and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1581	My whole main post was that when we're witnessing that fellow humans are in distress and in danger and need help, protection, food, medicine, etc., we're going to set up. We're going to do what we can to help as many of our fellow human beings as possible who need our help. That's when we have to think about how we can best use the resources. There is no doubt that the countries most affected are the neighbouring countries. There is no doubt that the aid comes — and is absolutely necessary — to the neighbourhoods. It's a reality that the majority of people here on Stortinget have come to realize as well. So when the representative from the Christian People's Party thought that I had ridiculed their persuasion to re-examine the cases of these asylum-seekers, that's not right. My point was that when 60 million people are in acute distress – what kind of debates are we having at home, and what kind of attention are we having in the Norwegian National Assembly? The number is not 8,000 or 10,000. The number is 60 million people fleeing, who are refugees. At the same time, we have had a lot of lookouts about and a lot of attention – and many forces have been used – on completely different things than discussing how we can help our fellow people in need. When I hear the representative of Kolberg from this pulpit, it is obvious that it is not only the math that disappeared from the Workers' Party with Jens Stoltenberg, but also the short-term memory. If there's someone who double-communicates, it's the Workers' Party, who at one moment thinks you're sending out too many too quickly, to say that you're going to have direct flights from the Kirkenes to Kabul. It is the Workers' Party that believes that one should be strict and fair. Then you have a national meeting and go away from the concept that you want to receive as much as you can — while you think it's done too little too late. It is the Workers' Party that believes that there is a need for restraints to help those who are actually persecuted, while their representatives propose to grant work permits to people who have not been allowed to stay until things have been clarified – and give a signal to millions of people that it is only to come to Norway and get a job. There are workers’ party representatives who, in this situation – while the Workers’ Party has been in favour of restraints – are promoting representational proposals to almost give amnesty and to go away from existing principles, laws and rules in order to give Norwegian citizenship to 1 000 people originating in Iraq. It is a double communication, and it is a double communication that the Workers' Party has been pursuing for a long time in integration policy. We've seen that around this with a ban on burka. That's what we've seen last week, with a ban on hijab in high school – which has become a fight against high heels and mini-skirts in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1592	When the government proposed a new cost key in the income system for county municipalities in 2015, it became clear that the government was based on major changes in the assumptions, which were poorly investigated and subject to consistency assessment. The new system caused major redistribution effects between the counties, including: Oslo came out best with a win of over 650 million. kr, and Nordland came out with a loss of about 284 million. kr. Sogn and Fjordane suffered the same loss, which has had a major impact on the offer that can be given to the inhabitants. There are several weaknesses in the new cost key, but the conversion of grid-to-sea factors through boat and ferry operations was particularly marked in the negative direction of the coastal regions of the West and North Norway. Already at the time of the presentation, the government recognised this and said they would continue to work with the sector key for boat and ferry towards the 2015 state budget. The government has not done the job they promised. It shows the municipality proposal for 2016. It tells the ministry how difficult it is to establish a cost key that reflects spending needs, and they are now asking for a delay to 2017 to give a new assessment. The majority of the population have accepted this and have provided temporary compensation through the introduction of a loss compensation scheme — and let me underline the intention of the ministry — which comes in addition to phase-in over five years through the income guarantee scheme. I have been given the opportunity to ask the State Council, Jan Tore Sanner, whether he wants to enter the cost key and strengthen the economy of county municipalities with particularly high transport costs. The Council of State argued out of it all by pointing out that the income system of county municipalities has long been up-to-date, since it has remained unchanged since the 1990s. Me and the Center Party have not opposed this update, but we must be allowed to expect that it will be based on criteria that reflect actual costs of operating public transport at sea. Today, I think there are more than one of us in the Center Party who regret that the Stortinget did not take the time for a new review when the municipality proposal for 2014 was discussed. We are now in a situation where the government is constantly asking for a postponement to provide the review requested by the Stortinget. In the meantime, the income system for county municipalities is being tested with loss compensation funds. The fact is that the tender costs for the boat and ferry have increased sharply, and that the coverage of the costs goes down. The government says it will promote growth. Nordland is a state that delivers it. The economy in the county is trading for a three-digit billion, and the forecasts for future growth are among the strongest in the country. If this growth is to be realised, so that we can finance welfare assets in the future across the country, the county municipalities must be able to upgrade and maintain the transport network. It is sad that the government does not represent the business of the Nordic countries and other states with high transport costs. That's what the Center Party wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1609	I take the floor again to comment on some of the claims that have been made on regional development funds, and what is clearly going to be out there for more regional development funds. I hear that cry from state politicians from the Central Party and the Workers' Party. I've visited – everyone was perhaps working a little hard, I'll bite into it – a lot of companies in their own country, and at the top of the agenda for measures to increase industrial development and productivity, are transportation measures. Therefore, rather than regional development funds, we have given priority to spending money on transport and on more rural roads. And we think that's going to give us greater effect. There's no reason to be unclear -- I'll be very clear about it -- because I think it works a lot better, and it's in line with that business itself. More is being asked about innovation, more about industrial research and more about the SkattenFUNN scheme. The government has delivered in several budgets in a row. Then there's an increased investment in knowledge: the government has delivered in three budgets in a row. Ultimately and perhaps most importantly – and what often comes at the top of the agenda when I talk to the business community in my own country – are actually tax reliefs, lower taxes on business, and not least the removal of the special tax that we have on Norwegian ownership. These are the points that industry in my country is giving feedback about. There is no strong call for more and more regional development funds, but on the contrary, after increasing investment in transport, on which we deliver, increased investment in innovation, research and TaxFUNN, on which we deliver, increased investment in knowledge, on which we deliver, and increased investment in growth-enhancing tax incentives – on which we also deliver. At these times, when there is a need to create more activity and more jobs, I am amazed that the solutions of the Workers' Party are to increase taxes on business. I just don't understand that. Some people would have to explain it to me, but I'm still probably not going to understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1618	This debate is taking place in periods such as the debate on the reverse world, at the latest and most clearly represented by the representative Karin Andersen in one of her last speeches: a race to the bottom. Alf Prøysen, from the same state as her, was an exponent for this kind of narrative technique, showing in reverse countries and the story of the Teskjerring are two examples of that. It is not unknown to use that kind of narrative technique in politics, and it has been used here today. The left is quite satisfied that we've had more than 1 billion fought in. to combat poverty. I think Alf Prøysen would have been pleased with that. He was a figure for the weakest in society. I didn't feel that he used it to talk anyone down. Another area where there has been very little talk about here today is measures in municipalities and county municipalities dealing with public transport, bicycles and environmentally friendly transport. For the left hand side, we can sign off with 1 billion. There are also three budgetary negotiations. I think it's a significant growth. To the school health services and health centres, the four batches have increased the budget by well over one and a half billion. kr – The left has helped raise it by 170 million. kr. It is clear that it is a crossroads of thought that municipalities do not necessarily spend all that money on health sisters and strengthen the capacity of health centres. But they go to the municipal sector, and it is the local politicians who prioritise and who know where the shoe prints. So it's a significant reinforcement. This is also true in the school sector, with continuing training of school professionals and more teachers: 600 million. kr is something that is noticed in the municipalities. Then we have to take a little look back at the reformer of the previous government: the regional reform, which never happened, and an interaction reform with which the municipalities are struggling significantly today. One started with the most demanding patients, and it is a big challenge in municipalities to deal with the situation one stands up in. What remains as a clear reform from the eight-year red-green government period is a pension reform. It was absolutely necessary, but it made no big difference in terms of structure and capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1627	I signed to answer a question from the representative Jan Bøhler who is related to the further assessment of R5 and R6. I can confirm that there is a question that the government is considering. There are different perspectives that have to be included in that assessment, not least the question of safety. The second question raised by the representative, Mr Bøhler, relates to the Y block and whether Statsbyggen’s proposals change somewhat as regards the question of the further use of the Y block. The answer to that is no. It's very problematic – I don't think it's possible – to be able to use a building over a tunnel, for departmental construction. Safety and urban space considerations indicate that there is no reason to change that decision. So there are two other questions I will also comment on. One is linked to regional development funds and the other is linked to the income system of the counties. Let me first take the income system of the counties, as the representative Nordlund mentioned. The representative says the government has failed. It's a little strange that it comes from a representative of a party that had the municipal minister for eight years, without doing anything about the county income system. The income system of the counties is based on the cost key from the 1990s. Most of us have come to realize that society has changed quite significantly since the 1990s. That means that injustices had grown solid. This means that a number of counties over several years – yes, in fact a few decades – have received too little money. It's unfair. We have set up a fairer income system, which means that states like Rogaland, More and Romesdal and the South-Trøndelag have been corrected some of the injustices they were exposed to over eight years of red-green rule. We've got a fairer income system in place. So to the representative Martin Henriksen, who complains that a little less regional development funds have been allocated: let me remind you that North Norway has received almost 30 pst. of the increase in the allocation of county roads. This means that North Norway has gained more in increased funding for county roads than in regional development funds. In addition, the government has a big investment in transport in general, which benefits North Norway. Reduced taxes and taxes and investment in innovation and development generate development. Troms has a growth in tax revenue of 8 pst. and a fall in unemployment. That's what counts for a county. Troms, Nordland and Finnmark are in good development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1638	It is good that there are many speakers in this debate who are concerned about how the means available to us can also help trigger increased activity, more businesses, more jobs and more value creation around the whole country. But there is also a distinction between those who take seriously the desire of business to get better conditions, better transport, more infrastructure, and those who sound most like an echo from county houses, and who regret that county councils are being reduced by some of the pot used for regional development – which I think is going to be a long time to find evidence of working better in terms of employment than other measures – although we are still, in fact, I remember, spending quite considerable money on regional development funds. It's absolutely right that there we've done a repriorization, where we spend more of the money on things that we're sure of works better, and that comes to value creation and jobs, and thus people most and our well-being, better for the better. Then it's also that it was claimed that we lived in some kind of parallel worlds, if not the parallel universe – I think it was from the representative Henriksen. No, I'm not sure if we do that, but it's clear that, as always, we probably read the picture a little bit differently. We do not paint our municipal structure. We say it's a good setup, we say it's growth in the free revenues, we say that we strengthen the economic space for Norwegian municipalities for the third year in a row, we suggest in our state budget a greater increase in the economic space than the Workers' Party did when they were in government in their last three years. This is documentation that the Workers' Party has to drive back. The difference, however, is that we tell the municipalities that it still needs to be given priority; it still needs to be made more effective. We provide predictability, we provide robust financial frameworks, but we do not do the beauty that the red-greens did when they sat – and I dare remind you that then the economic space was even smaller, considerably smaller, than it is today. If you don't listen to us, you can listen to us, for example. the working party rapporteur in Porsanger, who, when the budget came, said to the newspaper Finnmark Dagblad: ‘My immediate reaction is that this will make it easier for us’. Or you can listen to the adviser in Moss, as Moss Dagblad said: “I have been a councillor for about 12 years now, and I have never been so satisfied with a government budget before.” Or you can listen to the Address Paper, which summarized it on behalf of the Red-Green Trondheim under the heading «Hilsen and thank you to the government»: «Without gifts from the government, Rita Ottervik and her partners had worn out to get a municipal budget according to their hearts.» [[Ap]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1660	Martin Kolberg challenges the signed and the Progress Party to talk a little bit about the extent to which we see that there is a moral in Norway to help. Now I'm not going to repeat all my colleague Mazyar Keshvari said in an article a little earlier, but it's clear that the Progress Party has always been busy helping people in distress. But we ask ourselves, should we help the most possible in the vicinity, or should we send out a signal and receive as much as possible to Norway and thus not have room for action to help as many as you could if you had listened to the Progress Party this summer? That signal means something, I think we've been proved very clearly. It is not just something we say in the Progress Party, it is actually asylum seekers themselves who say it, that they feel that they are invited to come, based on signals sent out. When it comes to the claim that the Progress Party operates with double communication, Keshvari had a good post where he showed that it's not right, and that the Workers' Party is a master of that kind of communication. What I think everyone should be looking at is what the parties said in April, what they said in September in the municipal election campaign, and what they say today. If one sees what the Progress Party said, one would notice that we had exactly the same approach to the spring party that we had in the municipal election campaign, and that we have today attached to these questions, while the other party can well go in and see if they can testify the same, or if they've changed the alignment. So I almost have to give a little greeting to the representative Lauvås who thinks we're from the plural party muttering about the possibility of driving social development. To introduce a new fee, I have to admit that it is not what we like best, but it is not possible to make fools of us that way at the same time as for example. The working party increases the taxes by several tens of billions of dollars compared to its government structure in recent years. I don't think there's anyone out in the business world who wants to say that we can exchange this extra fee with the Workers' Party's tax package. There won't be any more jobs of it, and no one's screaming for it. When it comes to regional development funds, only in this room I hear there is a need for more of it than road. When I'm in state and talking to business and state politicians, there's one thing they say. It's that they need money for county roads and infrastructure. There are very few who are calling for large regional departments in the construction of county municipalities. It's essentially the opposition in this room that's looking for. The business community is asking for more money to go, and we have delivered more than 1.2 billion. kr more for county roads. So to the representative Nordlund from the Center Party who's talking about the income system. It is clear that we follow closely the boat and ferry criteria. We had a debate last week in this room, and we're going to follow up so that county councils can set the right standards for new environmentally friendly ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1676	I need to comment on a few of the things that have emerged in the debate. Firstly, as regards the space for action in the local economy: it is a fact that the growth of total revenue under the red-green government was 2.5 pst. in the year on average. With today's government, it's 1.7 pst. In the case of Aina Borch as a witness to the truth of the good community economy, I might advise the Right to take a talk with her. She has requested guarantees from the government that the municipality of Porsanger can cover the many additional costs the municipality has incurred for asylum seekers and refugees. She has not received a clear answer. She is concerned about access to employees and not least about whether she needs to cut into basic welfare services because of the asylum recipients that the municipality has received. She had deserved a clear answer. The right-hand side has claimed several times in the debate that the red-green government hopes that there will be extra tax revenue when we made our municipal arrangements. That's not right, it's completely wrong. The red-green government knew that there was extra tax revenue. In 2011, before the red-green government made the municipal bill for 2012, we knew that tax revenues had increased by 1.2 billion. kr. In 2012, before making the municipal bill for 2013, we knew that the tax revenue had increased by 2.3 billion. kr. If we had been occupied with the theoretical space of action like the Right, we should of course have taken this money in and spent it the following year. And then we would have gotten those figures that the government has made in its budget. But it didn't do the red-green government, because this would lead to the welfare services being expanded one year later than necessary. The government we were part of, it seemed more important to develop well-being as quickly as possible than to focus on the theoretical space of action in the budget. In the debate, the right-hand side has presented a reality where the local economy is good, and where the enthusiasm for the local reform is very great. New accusations have been made that the refugee situation is the opposition to the responsibilities of the Storting and that the government could not have dealt with this in a better and faster way. It is a reality that is primarily suitable for film directed by the Minister of Justice, and has little to do with reality. There are many very difficult balances in immigration and integration policy. However, getting enough case handlers on Storskog in time should not have been so complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1689	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1692	When someone knocks on my door, I open up and take them in – and I consider whether to ask them to turn around, or whether to get them in. When the neighbor then says no, you have invited them, I may have reason to be a little offended. When the Progress Party says that we've invited the refugees here, it's just such a situation, because it feels a little meaningless. It was Kolberg who challenged the Christian People's Party on this, and I will answer it. No one wants refugees, and at least they may have wanted them themselves. That's why we have to take the situation and act decently. They're new fluctrates and detonated refugee camps. Emergency and rescue work are needed. I arrived at midnight today from Italy – I have been to a parliamentary meeting. I think they had their eyes up, they'd heard that we had invited these to Norway, as the situation looks in Europe. I suggest that we now make the best of it, and not share a policy of unclear rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1701	The representative Keshvari says, "Let's do what we can." Why, then, did not the Progress Party participate in the negotiation agreement we entered into, about 8 000 refugees – despite the fact that the party is a government party and the government says it is government policy? But Keshvari's party here in Stortinget says no, it's not the Progress Party's policy. Then he stands on this pulpit and tries to tell the Storting that they do not double communicate! I claim here – no one else has said that, so I should say it clearly: that maneuver is the strategy of the Progress Party to have a platform to do exactly what I'm saying: double-communise to create a platform to be able to drive forward a rhetoric that is detrimental to the humanistic development of society. That's what Keshvar stands for. It is this which is the Progress Party in this area. And it's not useful with excursions in such a context – to come up with technical arguments about the Labour Party's policy. This is the reality. And that's what's serious. The Minister of Local Affairs is still sitting here, of course, and I would like to ask Minister Sanner to come up here and answer whether he thinks it is right that his Minister of Finance believes that the municipalities should not accept refugees. Is it okay for the Council of State, Sanner, that the Minister of Finance means it? It's probably not double communication either, I would think – if we were to put in the idea that Njåstad and Keshvari have. The Minister of Finance says: Don't follow the government's policy! It's not double communication either, probably. Well, that's exactly what it is -- that's what's sad. And what is regrettable is that, in the parliamentary situation we have, the Storting accepts that state councils act in this way. This should not be done by the Storting, in my clear opinion. So I want to say about what Njåstad said: I agree with all of Njåstad said in his last post, but he did not specifically answer the question: Is it okay that the party he supports, which is part of the government – the Advance Party – expresses itself in this way in this Chamber? Tskedal was in the vicinity of saying now that he thought it was not okay. He didn't say it quite clearly. I wish he had said it even clearer, for this is, ladies and gentlemen, simply not Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1714	I guess it's just to say to the representative Pedersen's posts that good facts are suitable for film. So it might be that it's going to be a good follow-up, but at least we have something to present in this video. I therefore understand that the Workers' Party does not want to make such a presentation film. But I'm glad I got the floor after the chairman of the Control and Constitution Committee, because it must be a manifest misunderstanding if we were to be in a situation where political parties should not be allowed to have opinions and get those opinions out, but then, in the next round, implement the policy of the Stortinget. That's what this is all about. Although a party in government does not agree with a decision on the size of the stock, that party must contribute to the implementation of that decision on the stockpiling. If not, we will end up in the committee of the representative of Kolberg. That's why I think it's a little strange rhetoric when it's added that this is going to be some kind of political double communication, because that's definitely not it. Government parties are allowed to have opinions at the same time as they are obliged under Norwegian constitution to comply with the Storting decision. So I would really think that the representative Kolberg would be satisfied with such an approach from a government party, for everything else would be unheard of. I also want to say a few words about what the representative Karin Andersen mentioned, who has not been particularly affected in this debate, but which is nevertheless a very important perspective. That is the European perspective. The representative called for initiatives, including: by the government to ensure that one in Europe contributes to the challenge. It's a complicated affair, because in addition to trying to solve what's at the root of the problem, i.e. the conflicts in the neighbourhoods, it has to help those who need help in the neighbourhoods get it. I also think it is important then to stress that Norway has been very active in helping to find those solutions, especially in terms of improving control of the external borders of the Schengen area. It's an important premise and an important premise for us to be able to have a policy that allows one to help people who need it the most and to have that humanity as one should have. It is also important to help in the neighbourhoods. The government has also been very clear that we have supported, among other things. the Dutch initiative, which has been taken as part of the conclusions of the EU Presidency, where one has to look at whether it is possible to create a mechanism that is more similar to the one we have in cooperation with the United Nations in relation to the withdrawal of quota refugees, in order to ensure that those most in need have access to Europe, while a halts migration flows that are welfare-based. It assumes that one has control of the outer boundaries, and it requires that one can return to, for example: ‘hotspots’ or local clays to use the same system as we have in cooperation with the UN in relation to quota refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1727	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1730	It's interesting to listen to the newly inspired Workers' Party that is here today, because when one comes with as much as is completely new in relation to what they had when they were in government, one has to characterize this as a newly showered policy. It is strange that it was not delivered then, and I do not know who will be the director of the film as there is so much talk about here – it is not good to know. In any case, I would like to point out to the Central Party's man from Northern Ireland something about the county income system, which had obviously been in the drawer of the former municipal minister: the Left and Christian People's Party was eager and has put in place a loss compensation. This year alone, Nordland County has received 25 million. Extra kroner because of that. Obviously, these were different things that gave different results. I believe that the system as such is good, but there were some unintended effects on some districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1737	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has just taken up the European perspective on Schengen, but let me also mention Dublin. I have a little visit to SV and Karin Andersen, who is calling for the European solutions: it is very important, but the paradox is that when you reject the national leadership in the area and sign out, you call for the European solutions and, among other things, for them. The EU, which you do not accept, and will not be a member of. Secondly, a small visit to the Labour Party representative Lauvås: For the government parties – I thought it was the same for the Workers' Party – it is fully possible to send people quickly to work, provided that they are 18 years old, have contributed to the clearance of their identity and have carried out the asylum interview. But in the comments from the Workers' Party, the criteria are left out, and you have to go straight to work. That's what we're talking about when we point out the winged policy to the Workers' Party, and when we call for a political leadership that is consistent in the forward and backward policy, which is about being mild and hard about each other, or that has no overview. I can get a feeling that Kolberg's morals are better than mine, or that the Labour Party's morals are better than the government parties. There are several definitions of morality, but morals mean that the norms, values and attitudes you practice are accepted and valid — or are commonplace, with a little popular language. Often it is also mixed with ethics, but now let's stick to morality. Morals must be balanced, enforced and valid in meeting what we have been talking about before today, namely that a good integration policy requires a tight immigration policy. It can't be surprising for anyone here in the Chamber that there are phones in Afghanistan, Syria and other countries, and that the signals we send out from here are reaching. I have not criticised, I am fully in favour of 8 000 quota refugees, but if you start discussing 10,000, or that we are going to tighten up family reunification, or that there are no cash benefits for them between 15 and 18 years, and that the residence permit here does not become permanent, but that there is a greater degree of temporaryity – it is asked – it is the kind of signals that we send out into the world, and that can give hope to those who have to be out there and who do not have the real need for protection that we say, as we mean, and that we are to make sure that we are able to give to those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1748	The representative Henriksen likes to use the term ‘others have not understood’, but I must say that in this case it is the representative Henriksen who has not realized that the county administration is very unfit to pick budding farms in the private business. On the other hand, a county administration and the public much better fit and competent to ensure that what they are really going to do is to ensure that the infrastructure of society is in place, among other things. through road construction, not least in the Nordic region – this long-distance county. How wrong it can really be when a county council kind of starts moving into these particulars, Telemark county council is an example of where you should try to create new jobs. They hired First House, who wrote bills with forks, without creating a single new job. To the representative of Nordlund: I must almost say that the representative of Nordlund, who is now in office as an alternate, is perhaps a little poorly prepared for this debate. If there's anything the government has done, it's betting on the road and renting in the Nordic states. A small introduction, to put it this way: E6 Korgen–Bodø, Urban package Bodø, tunnel improvements on E6 Korgen–Fauske, several bridges on E6, planning new E10 from Tjeldsund to Langvassbukt, power supply and new overhead line on Ofotbanen, port extensions on Myre, Napp, Hovden, Andenes, Reiå and Ballstad. This is actually from last year's state budget, and if the president had given me a five-minute post now at the end, I would also be able to fill it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1757	Of course, the temptation is great, but we have to control ourselves. I would rather give the floor to Mr Henriksen, who probably also has a contribution to make in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1760	A wise choice, President. At least I will give it to the government, to both the representatives of the Rivers and others from the government parties, that they have made a great effort to increase their competences among the local peoples of the country. They're soon among our leading cut experts. Here in the Chamber, together with representatives of the government parties, the Minister of Municipal Affairs goes up and defends the cuts of the Nordic states through the income system and cut regional development funds. Whether this matter is to say that the core is that the Right Party and the Advance Party choose a different political direction in practice than the one they themselves present in their celebrations here in the Chamber, which is the opposite of what the municipality and county in Norway need. What the government parties are doing is taking money, power and influence from the regions. There is thus more central governance and less local governance when you cut regional development funds, when you change the income system, and when you want to change Innovation Norway. Cuts in regional development funds are also cut in Innovation Norway locally, and a company on Senja or on Smøla should, in the opinion of the government parties, argue much more about a central money bag, distributed from a central office in Oslo that sets central guidelines, rather than being the local elected representatives, who know the local situation, and who can provide money and distribute funds to the companies they themselves believe is sensible to support, based on local competence, which does. That's the opposite of what government parties do, which is needed in the regions. The representative Frank J. Jenssen from the Right has a clear message for the Northern Norwegian county municipalities, namely to cut 754 million. kr per year is fine. He also says that there is no evidence that regional development funds are effective. Well, in the Workers' Party we are for a reading, writing and calculating guarantee for Norwegian school students. Maybe we should consider expanding it to also include the Right Magnification Group. The central statistical agency has looked at this and is just saying that regional development funds are one of the most effective instruments we have for economic development locally and regionally. The representative says that the government has chosen to spend money on roads rather than on regional development funds, for example. No, it is wrong: the government has rather chosen to follow the current national transport plan and then spent money on tax cuts. This will include, inter alia: the states of the north mark. You cut, among other things. in the taxes on wealth – it has little or no support from its professional economists. It has little or no effect in the districts, especially in North Norway. In North Norway lives 9 pst. of the country's population, but they only get 4 pst. of the reliefs in taxes on wealth. So it's going to be a transfer of funds out of the country. Transport area: Well, it follows the national transport plan, but cuts in regional development funds and the income system. You give with one hand and take with two other hands. It's an entirely opposite policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1778	I might just confirm, for the record, that the Council of State Anundsen is right that we are not going to make any films like he did. We don't want to make ourselves laugh either. But first of all, I'm going to say something about community mergers, because there's a big discussion around the country about it. These are difficult debates. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that this should happen on a voluntary basis. It's because some of us have experienced community mergers that have been forced, and we see that it's at best quite complicated, and it's at least a long time before the result is successful. Then there are many people who are being provoked – and I am not accusing the Council of State of that – because in some investigations there can be the impression that there should be a desktop theory that there should be 10,000 or 15,000 inhabitants in a municipality. Our Lord has made this country our tuxedo geographically. That means that distance and topography actually have a lot to say, and that one can't just relate to the population. I'm from the municipality of Lardal. There I have been the rapporteur. The municipality of Lardal was visiting – well, last week – the Council of State office and applied to join forces. I think that is a pity, as former rapporteur in the rural area, but I think it is right. I think that's right, because since that municipality was set up, we've got a lot of bigger problems in school, we've got completely new health problems, there's a lot of child-restraint problems, and we've got problems with kindergartens, that's a lot of areas in Velferds-Norway that weren't there when the municipal borders were pulled up like they are today. I agree with the conclusion that Lardal has reached, and I expect the Council of State to nominate my municipality of residence and the council of State of Anundsen to join forces. I am concerned that the processes we have linked to the merger must be democratic. I belong to those who believe that if it's not the case that the voters have the opportunity to make an opinion on this by making the parties aware of their positions in elections, there should be a referendum. But in our case, the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Center Party went to elections on a municipal merger, and I think that's even more democratic, because then the voters who want to put the emphasis on that question can choose it on election day. So sometimes that's right, and with volunteering, the result can be successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1789	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1792	To the representative Frank J. Jensen: We have listened to our trust elected representatives in counties and municipalities regarding regional development funds. We've been listening to the owners out there. But the right says they're spending the money better, and then you can wonder who the representative Frank J. Jenssen has listened to. Then he should not praise his own municipal budget proposal. He's supposed to be happy about that. I don't think he can find so much rose paint in the country that it's possible to get it. I also hear that the representative, Njåstad, no longer likes the Party of Advances. I don't think he's alone in that. I think he gets several of his own members on that statement. But still, I see little pride in the Chamber, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, over their own draft budget. They are still more concerned with trying to blame the Workers' Party for their own proposals than with taking responsibility for the proposals they choose to promote and stand behind. That's weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1799	Today, the debate has gone mostly along two axes. One has been the track of immigration, asylum and integration, and the other has been, to a large extent, the municipal reform. Especially around the municipal reform, I had a certain expectation of the opposition parties. I had hoped to see a little more of the party's vision for the country, for where the municipalities will go for the next 20-30 years based on the population growth we see, when we look at the complexity of the services to be provided. If there is one party in particular that has been completely absent in today's debate on visions, it is the Center Party. Where is the Central Party in this debate? The only thing we've heard from the Central Party today about municipalities and what's ahead of us of challenges is that they're against all the changes that are going to make it possible for the local authorities to deliver their statutory services in the next few years. When we talk about community reform, they're against it. Police reform, hospital reform – all changes are opposed. Why is it that we hear a central party, in such an important debate, say nothing but no to everything called change? Why is it that the Center Party believes that the next 50 years' challenges can only be solved with yesterday's models? I want to challenge the Centre Party and, in particular, my colleague in the Committee to reflect a little more on the solutions they themselves have for how to solve these challenges. I hear they're against the government, but where are their own ambitions? How are they to ensure that municipalities can now provide their statutory services on child protection, school, welfare services? Not least this also applies to integration, because if the municipalities are to be able to live and integrate the thousands of refugees who come to this country, we need to have more robust municipalities. In conclusion, I must say that the Central Party is really absent from both axes of today's debate, both integration and local reform, because they are opposed to any change that can bring us to a point where we can actually say that the country is now more synchronised with the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1810	Where's the Center Party? Well, the center party is where they've always been. They are not interested in centralisation. They are interested in better services for the inhabitants of Norway. We are not interested in structural changes for the sake of structural changes. Should there be structural change, it should be because it provides better services to the population. The centre party is not against the merger, but the centre party is against the coercion of municipalities – just as we have said all along. It's been over 100 years since we did something cross-border in Norway, but I don't hear a cry that we have to do something about it just because it's 100 years since we changed them. We cannot make changes for the sake of change. It must be for that purpose. Frank J. Jenssen has had some readings in the last few days, where the headline is: «Doomsday cancelled». There he tries to refute my suggestion that the government has panicked about the municipal reform, and that the next rice behind the mirror to the municipalities will be strangling the economy in small municipalities. Although they now freeze the small municipal grant, it is possible that it is not the small municipal grant they attack, as I suggested. According to Chairman of the Committee, Njåstad, it is the basic grant they intend to remove. So it's going to be twice as dramatic as what I've been suggesting. Then I think ‘Doomsday cancelled’ is a very precise heading. The government has today confirmed that they will remove subsidies to municipalities that, following the reform, are voluntary small, as they call it. If the municipal framework is reduced by 20 pst, there's not much volunteer left for these municipalities. My theory is that the two supporting parties that wake up around the barrier line may not support this when it comes to the Stortinget, and that it will not have a majority. I think they need the voices of the small district municipalities when it comes to the 2017 elections, and that this will hardly have a majority here in the Chamber. The Council of State has also confirmed that some municipalities use resources in outlaws, both financial resources, administrative resources and political resources, because the Council of State will coerce some municipalities despite local decisions that the municipalities themselves want to exist as their own municipality. I think local politicians will ignore whips and carrots and that they dare to rely on their own assessments. They know that there are elections in 2017, and they know that any red-green majority in 2017 will reverse such abuses against local democracy. I'd like to ask the representative of Skelstad, these $50 million. kr that will give approx. 500 metres of road, must bind municipalities, and they must bind regions together. I would like to have an example of a project that is crucial for whether the municipalities choose aggregation or not, and which has a cost framework of this size.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1825	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1828	I take the floor by reference to Mr Anundsen's speech and his briefing on constitutional matters. I can assure him that I am a very strong adherent to the functioning of democracy and that people say what they mean. But Anundsen is in a Norwegian government. His party is in a Norwegian government – a Norwegian government that in the context we are talking about, the refugee agreement, does not accept it in Parliament. If we're going to talk about the constitutional consequences of that, referring to what the Minister of Justice says, the Progress Party should be out of government. But they don't because they're covered in the Storing of the Right, who obviously can do this, and by the Left and Christian People's Party, who can do it, for general political reasons. That's okay. It's not constitutionally wrong, but it's of course critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1833	Over the past seven to eight years, we have witnessed one of the most profound and serious financial crises Europe and the world have ever seen. Unemployment has increased, millions of young people are literally without a future, hundreds of thousands lose their homes and are unable to support themselves. Now it's turned in too fully over Norway, and we're approaching 130 000 unemployed, which is not as serious as we're looking at the continent, but still serious, and the danger signals that it's getting worse are obvious. Common to all financial crises is that some look for scapegoats. In the 1930s, it was the Jews. It's been gay. It's been feminist. There have been groups in society that have been a minority, or that have been an alternative, there have been space people who have been reviewed. It was about attitude and morality. In such situations, both Norway and we as individuals need clear and good leadership, and then I have to say that it is amazing that we have a prime minister who goes out and criticizes heavily indebted municipalities that have been run by the Right and the Advance Party for the past 20 years, in order to receive refugees in sports halls, while mentioning the situation of Norway as a ‘crisis’. She mentions it as a crisis, but we have no crisis solutions, there are no crisis measures, and there are no crisis packages. This is where negotiations in Stortinget are enough. When I went out of Stortinget instead, I saw that SIAN, Stop the Islamization of Norway, demonstrates, we see week after week that asylum recipients are on fire, and in my own county there is tagged crosshairs in schools with the inscription «Send them back». The time for politicising this crisis must now be over. People are in danger of dying, and people are accused of attempted murder after starting asylum. The situation of government and where signals sent at the National Labour Party meeting are claimed to lead to a wave of migration across Europe must now stop. Now both I and the rest of the Workers' Party expect action and action – not only for Norway, but also a settlement with this debate. Four years and four months ago we said 'never forget'. We also said that after World War II, and had veterans who fought as for Norway’s freedom – but also for the freedom to be themselves and the freedom and the right to be different – experienced this debate today, I think they would have reacted strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1844	I would first like to thank the State Council, Mr Sanner, for the answer on the Governmental Quarter, where he confirmed that the use of R5 and R6, where eight departments are holding up today, will come up with a fresh assessment in the government. This will mean that the New Government Quartet project will be reduced by 60000 m2 in scope compared to the whole of today, i.e. approximately. One-third. It will give much more room to shape a successful project that will be able to get wide open and be built we can be proud of both the state and the capital. It's going to be exciting to follow the way the government does that process and what you're going to do. It is also important that, in the future, we can have a further discussion in Stortinget about the most important construction project today, both for state and for the capital. So I thank you for that in the first place. Another important issue for the capital is the area initiatives. First of all, I am very pleased that in the budget provided by the Ministry of Local Affairs, we have a more comprehensive presentation of what the area initiatives are about. We've asked for that before, and now we get a picture of the bets that make it easier to discuss it. I am also very pleased with the broad upturn that is about the bets, and that we are going to go further. It's about long-term planning. Those who work with this around the city areas work in the four-five-year term – making projects, investigating them and finishing them until the funds come – so it's a long-term job. And the discussion about extending the bet for another ten years, after 2016, began already a few months before the 2013 elections, around the turn of the year 2012–2013. And when you simultaneously reduced the provisions for housing, urban and area development – first by 8 million. kr last year and then 5 mill. NOK this year, so that what was in the past was 50 million. NOK 36 million. kr – when you are in position, you should understand the opposition, when you see these reductions and it takes 2,5 years from the start of the discussion on extension, from the end of 2012 to a few days before the selection now in the harvest. On August 31, the government and the then Oslo City Council responded that they would be involved for another ten years. We're very pleased that we're getting the Groruddalen bet for another ten years. I hope that we can also get the same process around Oslo Sør-Betingen and the bets in Bergen, Trondheim and Drammen, on how to extend them further, and that there will now be good negotiations between the new city council and the government to design the bets so that they will also be good over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1865	We have some challenges in our country, challenges that require some people to take responsibility, but the government parties in this room are once again, today, most concerned about debting the Workers' Party. When the Progress Party first claimed that the refugee flow was due to the Workers' Party's national meeting, I drew a little bit on the smile band – populist, cheap rhetoric that we're used to from that edge. But when representatives of the Right started with the same accusations, I think it's hacked more seriously. The image of the Right as a decent batch has got some serious scratches. The representative of Schou is here in full seriousness and says that 8 000 refugees were quite fine, that was good, but 10,000 were a signal that all the refugees would come to Norway. It's not on your fingertips. The situation requires someone to take leadership. The government, with the Prime Minister at its head, is calling for the right of residence, and the Minister of Finance is calling for the boycott of virtue. It's not leadership. This situation requires action. I can understand that the criticism from the opposition may not bite so hard at the state councils here today, but when the NRK wrote on 6 November this year that 13 of the 18 measures for which the government received a majority, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, two years ago, were not completed, the representative André Skkelstad said: ‘This is about enforcement, and it is clearly deficient in getting this out of life.’ The situation requires that we give priority to integration, but the government is still concerned with small cuts in Norwegian education, proposes to cut the school offer for asylum children, and they do not understand that it is the municipalities that are going to do the integration work. I had expected more of the Right in this debate, but that the accusations that the flow of refugees was due to a speech by Jonas Gahr Støre at the national meeting in the Workers' Party – that is low.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1880	It is with a little surprise I heard the representative from the Left answer to a question from Kolberg, where he characterized the Workers' Party to be newly showered. It's a rather serious matter we're talking about, where Left tying to the kind of light rhetoric when it comes to whether the Left is convenient with the Right and Advance Party rhetoric and the political choices in this matter. The right-wing and right-wing representatives have adopted today, and also in other public contexts, the rhetoric of the Progress Party that the Labour Party has invited and is responsible for the situation. It is also an expression of a political choice of value. The statement by the Minister of Finance, who is our next minister of state, expresses a clear choice of values: Do not live in need, after they have arrived, after they have been assessed in relation to international conventions and agreements, and after national values to help people in need have been assessed – do not accept them. I do not understand that the representative Kolberg says anything about the morals of the Workers' Party being much better than the morals of anyone else. But what we see, is that Right with open eyes and clear thoughts, I'll believe, support, by not taking a distance, and continues a rhetoric based on the values of the Advance Party: Not settled. We have to ask the question: is it that if it had not been for the Labour Party's policy, the situation would have been different? Is that what the Right is trying to make us believe, that it is the Labour Party's policy that makes this government unable to govern, or that it is the Labour Party's policy that requires the Right to take the values they take? Or is this an expression of a real reversal from the Right's value base to embrace the value base of the Progress Party in asylum policy? That's the question that's raised. The representative Schou pointed out in his reply to the Workers' Party representative, Helga Pedersen, that – this is not a quote, but it is taken after memory – the Labour Party's policy was not only strict and fair, but it was also humane. Yes, think about it, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1893	I think I owe the representative of the Rivers some clarification. It has been said that the undersigned is the County Council for Transport in Northern Ireland for a day-to-day period. Asking questions about whether the representative is able to debate traffic in the Nordic countries and the income keys is well to draw it a bit far. I have not criticised this government for fulfilling the national transport plan provided by the previous government. On the contrary, I have said that it was a correct and necessary plan, and it is good that the government has followed up. What I've asked critical questions about is that when you start on the backbone of the government, and so far also from the previous government, you don't see that food transport, especially in North Norway, starts by a county road, it doesn't help, and we don't get full socio-economic impact if the trails are left on an island or in the ditch on a bad county road. I think someone will soon have to explain to the representative Njåstad that when the Minister of Transport enters and benefits in the context of the free income from the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, there will not be automatically and suddenly much more money for transport in some states. The frame is as big as it is. When changing the cost key and its distribution, based on the criteria of the income system, it becomes effective around the counties. It is no wonder that some states feel they have been neglected, when they get such big changes overnight. It has accepted a total accumulation when you have entered into a compensation scheme in addition to what was in the guarantee scheme. I note that the Council of State still believes that a better and fairer system has been created, and that one does not want – as far as I can understand – to follow up what the Stortinget has said, namely that one has to look at these keys again when it comes to ferry and boat traffic. It is wishful thinking and press release reading that makes it suddenly perceived that there is much more money for transportation. Moving forwards that have real income declines, when, in previous years, real income growth has actually been in effect for a long time, and then saying that it is all of a sudden to invest in business and to facilitate transport that is necessary to get the goods off the coast and to the market, to me is a contradiction that is not interrelated. It's not that the change necessarily gives these results when you take one hand and, as the representative Henriksen said, hand out with two hands. We get a situation where we don't fully exploit the potential of business, when we don't have the ability to invest in other infrastructure as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1906	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1909	That there should be something worse moral to think that one should use all the resources, all the time and all the forces to be able to help as many people as possible who are in need, I cannot grasp and understand. That's what's been our approach. When we see that what Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany and others are using on the asylum system, far exceeds the budget of the entire UN High Commissioner for Refugees, it is no less moral to say that we should want to spend more time, energy and resources to help as many people as possible in need. Secondly, the Labour Party has suddenly become very indignant that politics actually has something to say, that political decisions produce some results. Well, when we introduced the contractions and there was attention around this field, it went down. Turning attention around and taking other decisions went up. That's the reason many of those who came over the Great Forest, stated themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1916	Then I just have to first thank Jan Bøhler for bringing up the debate on the government quarter. It is entirely in line with my thinking that we should have a public and open debate on such an important project in the middle of Oslo. Then I can confirm to the representative Nordlund that the Council of States naturally follows up what a majority in Stortinget says about cost keys. Unlike the previous government, I have not planned to let it go 20 years before the income system is updated again. I must admit, however, that I am amazed that there are representatives from the Nordic states who use the strongest words. We are in a situation where unemployment is rising in South and South Western countries, where oil and gas industries are falling, where businesses are bankrupt, where people lose their jobs, families and communities. There is a need for more action in order to achieve activity, work and change. Looking at the Nordic states, Troms County is experiencing a growth in tax revenue so far this year at a total of 8 pst. Unemployment is falling in the Nordic counties. Here, of course, there are a lot of issues involved, but you have a government that is playing with North Norway, a government that is betting on North Norway, on infrastructure, on knowledge and facilitating it. It's because it's important to make sure that we have a strong business life that is the basis for housing, and there's cross-political agreement on a necessary North Norway bet. I must also point out that for 2016 all municipalities in Finnmark and Troms will have expenditure-adjusted growth in the free revenues equal to or above the national average. This means that in the local economy too, there will be a good development for next year. The representative Martin Henriksen says that the government is doing the opposite of what the region needs. The government is stepping up the appropriations for state roads, North Norway has received 28 pst. of the growth in the allocations of county roads. Government spending more on other infrastructure, more on knowledge and development. It shows that there is a government that plays along with the Nordic states and not least with industry, which is the basis for both growth and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1931	The representative Kapur of Oslo is very bold on behalf of the Right. That's good. But when it is said that the Central Party is absent in the debate on refugees and municipal structure, we can take a little greeting. Firstly, the right is ideologically opposed to any border control, which is absolutely crucial in solving the refugee issue. The right is in government with a party, the Advance Party, which opposes the settlement of refugees. The center part doesn't have much to learn. The center party includes. In my county, Buskerud, Hemsedal – Senterpart-steered Hemsedal – is one of the examples of how to approach and accept very many asylum seekers. So to the claim of the municipal reform: it's interesting that right-wing people in the municipalities are becoming more and more alert to asserting government policy and now only exceptionally dares to show their flag – in particular to show their flag – to their local followers. Why? Indeed, the whole point of the community reform is the centralisation of power – centralisation of power, which in consequence leads to the centralisation of activity. And when a centralizes activity, the opportunities for private business to develop become dynamically less, because it depends entirely on a strong and clear and competent municipal sector. People don't want this boosted centralization, neither in the city nor in the city. More and more – including in Oslo’s neighbourhoods – experience that the other face of district policy is rising against the growth of the press areas. The centre party is not absent in this debate, we are very pleased with what is happening. But what's important is to look at how we organize the municipal sector. Organisation, culture and management – this is where the big challenge lies. We need to draw attention to the meeting between teachers and students, between health professionals and those in need of care. It is the meeting that must be made effective, and then we must give professionals greater responsibility, we must have fewer Glava teams, fewer leaders, we must spend the money where they are going to be spent, namely in the meeting with ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1940	The representative, Helga Pedersen, said that the Workers' Party prioritised expanding well-being as soon as possible. Yes, what we thought was going to be 12,000 new places in the care of the elderly by 2015 was 567, or approximately. 5 pst. on the way to the target. In the evening post on 13 January this year, the Workers' Party's Health Policy Spokesman, Torgeir Micaelsen, admits defeat and takes self-criticism on behalf of the Workers' Party. He acknowledges that the instruments were far from strong enough. The Kjersti Toppe of the Central Party, a member of the Central Party for health policy, referred to it as a ‘supervisory wave’ and that it was a political ‘ham change’. The response from the Workers' Party is now stronger government governance, in practice a distrust of the municipalities. Is the answer, then, stronger or weaker municipalities from the Workers' Party today? In the next few years, we're going to be 200,000 more than 80 years old. In a few years, 50 pst. Of all 18-year-old boys, choose the health profession. We are fantastically far away from that reality. It is now, until 2020, Norway has a room for action and can prepare for the future and use resources efficiently. We have the economy, we have the capacity and the competence, but we lack the structure to get it done. The representative of Lundtigen spoke in previous articles about centralisation. Yes, we have to talk about that, but there are several ways to do it, and it's no better to collect taxes and establish state jobs in central strata, as we saw a strong tendency in the previous government. We have to distribute resources in a better way, and then it actually happens that the private initiatives out there are better than in here. So far in three budgetary negotiations, the Left has contributed to a green tax shift. That's led to $9.5 billion. kr in green tax conversions. It's more than twice as much in three years as the red-greens did in eight years. So it's possible to make green-looking changes in the tax system. It is also possible to use it in the direction of the districts. The representative Greni traces that Left Father out in 2017. No, we stood for municipal reform in 2009, we did it in 2013 – we are far past that opportunity. In the case of top-level financing and 50 million. kr – yes, it has to – and more – both on the road and on the broadband. There's a lot of possibilities here, and the municipalities out there want it. Only in our region are Valdres on the stairs to figure it out and what to demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1955	Let me first say that I agree with Andersen's representative that an information film from the Workers' Party would soon become ridiculously bad, but it should not frighten us as long as the content is good. With regard to the representative Kolberg, it's not in any way meant to be a teacher, but I just don't agree with his interpretation of the constitutional relationships. The conclusion of the representative of Kolberg, who is now head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, is that the Progress Party should leave the government because they are opposed to a decision taken in the Stortinget. If you were to take that into account, the Workers' Party would have had to leave the government very often for the years they've been in minority government since 1961. Of course, they have not. That is why I find it strange that the representative Kolberg says this is not a constitutional error, but it is a critical one. It must be based on a misunderstanding, because it has no constitutional dimension. This is a purely political assessment of the extent to which a Party of Governments is going at all times. It is a political assessment – not a constitutional assessment. I dare remind this House that the Socialist Left Party was part of the previous government. They stood in the lawn outside this house and demonstrated against their own government. But they continued to sit with the Workers' Party. I think it's important to clarify that a desire can be political in disagreement, one can have different political assessments of what kind of consequences should be drawn by a given situation, but to claim that it has constitutional dimensions, I think it's to draw it too far. I would like to address the debate we have seen now, relating to whether political signals and actions are working or not: when the Stortinget negotiated measures, something happened to the influx to Norway – not only when we negotiated, but also when an action was implemented in parallel. This happened not only in Norway, but also in Sweden and Finland. In Sweden, the influx of asylum went down by 52 pst in the weeks 46–49. In Finland it decreased by 66 pst in the same period, and in Norway it decreased by 86 pst in the same period. It is clear that measures and signals are working.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1966	The representative, Frank J. Jensen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1969	I also have to say that I am amazed that representatives from a part of the country – North Norway – how much is going well, where municipalities are getting more revenue next year, and where the availability in many contexts is lower than elsewhere in the country, are still the most busy talking down their own part of the country, because you are most concerned to score political points, I think, on a government you disagree with. That's the one. I would also like to say that I am proud of the municipal structure proposed by this government, which we stand for today, which increases the space for action of the municipalities more than the proposals of the previous government did. But the fact that it's almost ridiculous that I don't want to paint and repaint the situation because we want to be honest with the local politicians and say that it still has to be prioritized, I think it's some kind of debate technique that I don't really like. It probably says more about the person who stands for that kind of debate technique. The central party's doomsday prophecies and allegations about this government's policy have not turned on and will not turn on in any context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1978	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1982	First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the centre party is going to vote in favour of proposal No. 18, from SV. In its alternative budget for 2015, the central party financed the growth municipal grant with fresh funds, so we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox The representative, Njåstad, said here earlier that it was only the centre party that screamed at the regional development funds, and that everyone else was completely uninterested in them. Then I must almost be allowed to quote from the setting, where among other things. The Left and Christian People's Party, the government's supporting parties, say the following: «remarks that in its draft State budget the government has made a significant cut in this area. The majority will strongly warn against weakening regional policy instruments.’ So it's not just the Center Party that believes this has an impact, and the SSB says that regional development funds are the most effective tool for industrial development. I also wonder whether the representative Njåstad heard poorly after we were around on committee trips, because it is something that has really been pointed out, that is the lack of regional development funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1996	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e1999	It's tempting to say that if the mayor is surprised that representatives of North Norway are using the strongest words, I have some Rorbua TV posts in the 1990s that I would like to recommend to him. The Minister of Local Affairs is quite clear himself: North Norway has today received quite clear notice of 754 million. kr i cut this year is not only okay, but that it is also more effective that the money is managed and sent via Oslo. It is also worth noting that the Minister of Local Affairs is setting up the Northern Norwegian states against the counties of the South and the West. Then I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has proposals for both a larger package of measures to combat unemployment and to reverse the cuts to North Norway. It is possible if it is willful. Finally, in the case of the refugee rhetoric of the Advance Party, it is only to say that if a country’s decision from a Norwegian party has such an impact that it can affect the world situation, it is necessary to bring this unusually powerful party back into government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2010	The Progress Party has said every year that if they just came into government, the asylum figures in Norway would collapse. Then, of course, we who are in opposition now could have said: See what happens when the Progress Party comes into government – there have been ten times more asylum seekers to Norway. There is no decent politician who would ever have thought of saying, because we know that the refugee situation we now see in the world is not due to the Norwegian government. It's because it's warriors in the world. But the government of Norway says the opposite. They say that the refugee situation we see now is due to signals coming from the national meeting of an opposition party. That's why hundreds of thousands of people have been driven away, and some of them have come here to Norway. The first time I heard Keshvari say it in this room in a big debate, I hardly thought my own ears. I hardly thought it was possible to make a rhetoric that the refugee situation in Norway and the world was due to the National Assembly of the Workers' Party. A few weeks later, I heard Børge Burnde say the same thing at Aktuelt. Now we heard Ingerd Schou say much of the same in his first post. Later she was challenged, and then she answered: 8 000 people are completely in favour, but 10,000 is the signal that sends hundreds of thousands of people on the run. The 2 000 that are the difference between what was decided in the Storting, which all parties – apart from the Progress Party – stood behind, and the 10,000 that Jonas Gahr Støre spoke about in his national meeting speech, are responsible for the entire refugee disaster. You have to be a communication adviser in the Progress Party to go to the rhetoric that Ingerd Schou got to use. It surprises me to hear that the Right People I know, who are decent Right People, still use that kind of rhetoric, and it can't be very comfortable for the Left and Christian People's Party, who have this as one of their heart matters, to sit in the hall and listen to this. I am in favour of convergence between the policies we pursue in Norway and those pursued in other European countries, but I do not agree that Norway should be the least attractive country. It's politicians in this room who use 'human' almost like a shell word. Signals are busy, but we have to remind ourselves that year after year Norway has been designated as the world's best country to live in by the United Nations. Someone might say that it's sending a signal to the rest of the world. In that case, it is a signal that we should not be ashamed of. It's a signal we're going to be proud to share in sending out. That's something we're going to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2023	I notice that the representative Frank J. Jenssen says that the arguments of others are a debate technique he doesn't like, and then he ends up calling other people's opinions doomsday prophecies. It's also a form of rhetoric. It's been an interesting debate. It is important that the representatives of the Centre Party from the Nordic countries have developed some of the practical implications of the redistribution of the distribution keys for individual municipalities in this country. It is important – and I hope that all the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party will bring it with them in those states. Then I am a little surprised when you use the increase in county roads and transport as an argument that North Norway is still coming out well. However, this is because there has been a loss of a differentiated employer’s fee, and the means of transport were an attempt to compensate for it, not a discussion about the distribution keys. Nor was it the case that the distribution keys were a discussion of the crisis in the South-West. Then it wouldn't be Oslo that definitely came out best when it came to the distribution keys. But I actually took the floor because I am amazed at one thing in today's debate, and that is the rhetoric of asylum policy. I might not have expected anything but that the Progress Party would put itself on a rhetoric where they are trying to turn the issue of the number of refugees and asylum seekers to Norway into a question of the National Labour Party meeting. But I hadn't waited it from the Right. I have to say that. I had not expected the Right to go into that kind of argument in this debate. It is sad for a debate that now requires us to make a broad compromise, that we have a certain leadership, that we gather on something that is also long-term decisions on the part of the Stortinge. And yes, we have negotiated, and we agreed this summer on 8,000 refugees. According to VG, the progress could extend to 7,500. At its national meeting, the Labour Party adopted 10 000. We agreed on 8,000. We have adopted a settlement in the autumn that has been about tightening up, and we are in the midst of negotiations on a settlement that also concerns integration. But we're in a situation where the Storting is required to take responsibility for the situation we're facing, and I have to say I'm almost ashamed when I hear that this is reduced to a fairly cheap rhetoric from the Right and the Advance Party towards another party here in the Chamber. I think we should be too good at that – especially from a party that considers itself a seaman as a state-bearing party. For the sake of debate and for what is required of the political parties in the future, it is sad to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2036	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2039	We have now spent a lot of time on what has happened in the autumn, and that has been absolutely necessary. But there is reason to recall what is now before us, that refugees and asylum seekers should be settled and integrated, that is a formidable job for the municipalities. We have time to prepare for this and to equip the municipalities for it. The influx of asylum seekers in the autumn came very quickly. Now we know what's coming, and then we expect the government to show a completely different leadership than they did in the harvest. Successful settlement and integration are about a lot of things, but we don't get away from the fact that local economy counts heavily, and here, unfortunately, the hall separates layers, the bulk of the population from the opposition. A tight community economy is a very bad starting point for solving a problem that we basically have very good assumptions for doing in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2046	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2049	So at a time when half the government seems to have moved into the House of Commons in the lawn here, we're going to discuss whether there were any S.B.G. representatives who were listening to a demonstration in the last period. I see representatives from all the parties there in a lot of situations. This is serious. I think this big business is now most concerned with its seas and not with the big challenges that are in the world. There is a need for at least one country to take initiatives to solve this at European level, or at international level, to take initiatives towards the UN, to take initiatives towards the EU, towards Schengen, towards Dublin, in order to put in place a system that will enable us to do so, and that we are able to deal with those refugees who obviously need protection. The problem now is that all countries are in a race downwards. I say this to the Left, who obviously misunderstood, that this is about everyone making a policy now so that no one should accept the refugees. I really didn't think that was the Left's position on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2056	The reason I asked for the floor was the answer given by State Council Anundsen to Martin Kolberg. The Council of State said that it is, of course, that one can disagree politically, that parties must stand for their positions, but when decisions are taken in the Grand Duchy, the government must follow up. I agree. The government council, Anundsen, elegantly jumped over, was that the question was that the council of State, Siv Jensen, in opening the election campaign in Ålesund, encouraged the municipalities to help ensure that the decision of the Storting could not be followed up – long after the Stortinget had taken a decision – I underlined: long after the Stortinget had taken a decision, and after the government had begun to follow up by another government council that actually encouraged the municipalities to set up. That's what's serious about the situation. So it was Anundsen, who compared that when we were in government, at least completely at the beginning of the reigning period, it happened once that SV was in the lawn. I think there is a very big difference in the seriousness of some – a minority of the big business representatives – demonstrating against the government, and the fact that a government council demonstrates against the decision of the Storting. That's actually the situation. What is perhaps the most serious thing about this matter is that the government's parliamentary basis, not to mention the Prime Minister, is allowing it to happen. Then the Council of State and the members of the government must expect questions from the opposition. In fact, the role of the opposition is to point to the fact that we have a Council of State which, after a decision has been taken, opposes the decision of the Stortinge. Then I have to say that it was liberating to hear the last posts of the representative, Marit Arnstad, that we might soon start taking some responsibility for being in a situation where this country is facing major challenges. We agree on those who do not want to stay in Norway. I think most people agree that the war in Iraq is a major cause of the flow of refugees than the National Assembly of the Labour Party. What we should be together about is taking some action so that those who actually get to stay in Norway should not feel unwelcome, but be integrated into good citizens in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2067	The idea that the left side imports people into Norway to strengthen itself is a hard nail in the world of conspiracy theories. Often it hangs closely with that hatred against the Workers' Party which often pimples to the surface of the more dark sides of the Internet. There's some kind of hatred and some kind of conspiracy theory that there's reason to remember was involved in the worst acts of violence in Norway after World War II. The idea that Jonas Gahr Støre should have triggered one of the greatest crises in recent times because of a speech he gave at the National Assembly of the Workers Party has its origin in this thought universe. Some might think – and recall – that the regime in Eritrea, the collapse of Iraq, the violence in Afghanistan, and not least the mad attacks on ISIL and Bashar al-Asaad in Syria may have recorded that large numbers of people are now fleeing to Europe. But even in the face of a historical refugee crisis, there is no reason too great to play petty domestic politics, right-wing populist games here in the hall. I'll give state council anundsen right in one thing, and that's that political signals have something to say. It is a new recognition from the Progress Party that political signals have something to say. I would like to get a comment from the Minister of Justice on what kind of signals the following headlines in the media may have given: ‘Or I would like them to be cut into pieces and used as dog feed by some people.’ ‘Muslim-free Hedmark’. [[...]] "They smell and beat their young." “Sees that he is so-called dark skin. Then he probably comes from Africa and one of these South Seas islands as the father of Pippi was king." "Personally, I don't think the niggers are able to run their own country." There are statements that there is a need for a new crusade, which the current Secretary of State of the Minister of Municipal Affairs said in the previous bigotry, or to embrace opinions such as ‘much people from a dungy country’ on Somalis. Yes, it is even said from this pulpit: ‘We are digging our own cultural, ethnic and religious graves in Europe, and in fact some should wake up before it is too late.’ These are all statements by politicians, members and trust-elects of the Progress Party who have been quoted in Norwegian media. We're used to that. What we're not used to is that the Right has taken the step from unambiguously condemning that rhetoric to picking up rhetoric that originates in the same horror. It's unacceptable, and it's unacceptable. The Foreign Minister's soul has settled at this level here in the Chamber. I believe many future conservatives in Norway will read the minutes of this big harvest and be horrified.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2097	The representative Ketil Kjeseth said in his post that he thinks we lack structures out there to accommodate the good care of the elderly, and that the answer to this welfare challenge is like in many other major structures. The same pronounced councillor Höie in Stortinget in the past in the fall. During the treatment of the primary health notification, the Council of State stated that he looked at the primary health notification, which has now been adopted by the Stortinget, and municipal structure cases such as Siamese twins, i.e. inseparable, cohabited: one cannot obtain good services out there in the municipalities without larger municipalities. The question is, Is it that a person can only get a better care for the elderly by getting a larger municipality? Where is the best care for the elderly today? Is she better in Bergen than she is in Radøy? Is she better in Oslo than she is in a smaller municipality in Austland? We have no answer to that. It's in the smallest municipalities people are most happy. Parental care is a public responsibility. No other public provision is more local than just the care of the elderly. There's a whole service in the bedroom for people. One looks at them at night, one helps them in the bathroom with personal care. The government will strengthen this offer by making the responsibility governmental. 171 million. until priority is given to the State budget. It is the State that should do this better. So one should disenforce the municipalities in this important local matter. It's the Center Party's strong against it. Clearly, care for the elderly must be a municipal responsibility. When Stortinget dealt with the cooperation reform in 2011, the Left, Right and Progress Party said exactly the same thing, they said that this was completely impossible if one did not get larger municipalities. Looking at the interaction reform and at which municipalities were the most early to implement the new tasks, it was the small municipalities. It was the small municipalities that were best to receive the ready-to-print patients. It was the small municipalities that first created places for emergency help. There was nothing to suggest that it was the small municipalities that were not going to do the new tasks – it is actually the big municipalities that are following. I mean we from this pulpit have to stop talking about the competence and care that are in the small municipalities. Municipal structure may be the answer to something, but at least not to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2110	With reference to the representative Serigstad Valen's posts, I just want to say that I think it was a sad post. I think it brings the debate down to a level that it does not deserve to be. I don't want to comment on it any more. With regard to Aukrust's posts, he said something such as that it would be inappropriate if someone claimed that it was a consequence that the Progress Party was in government, that someone had now received a triple of the asylum flow. I agree with that, but it was precisely what the representative Helga Pedersen did in his reply to the chairman of the committee earlier today, when she indicated that there were changes in the policy of the Progress Party that should have led to a very different cost of asylum policy now. But I appreciate the approach that Aukrust has, and we'd better put the political rhetoric aside. When it comes to representatives Dag Terje Andersen's posts, I have to say that I understand his point, but I still disagree fundamentally. What Andersen says is that a party leader cannot express himself as a party leader if he is also a State Council member. I have to say that is a strange approach to a democratic issue. That, in addition, it would lead to some constitutional challenges or similar, I think it is completely unreasonable. I think we should expect our politicians, especially the party leaders, to be daring and afraid to stand for what is the politics of the parties, while not undermining their job as members of the government. This has always been the case, even when the Workers' Party has ruled. I think we have to give each other that flexibility. At the end of the day, I just want to thank the Committee for good cooperation. It is approaching inexorable Christmas times, and I wish the committee a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2121	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2124	I take the floor to comment on Karin Andersen's last post. The starting point was what she said about the race towards the bottom, towards zero, with which the representative concluded. Norway has so far received 30,000 migrants, refugees and asylum seekers this year. Sweden has received 160,000 and Germany 1 million. It's not like this is a race to zero. We can start with the fact that SV in the government basically managed to keep up with 500 quota refugees per year, while it was negotiated with 500 per year, and before the refugee influx, we were up to 2,000. There's been an agreement this year to accept 8 000. SV has left behind it. This is rather a race to take responsibility, not a race to the bottom. To the representative Toppe and to the stronger municipalities: it may also be about having a smaller country. To date, it is the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that will have State care for the elderly. The others have to discuss how we should enable the municipalities to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2135	I fully agree with the Council of State Anundsen that my post was a sad post. That's the whole point. It says everything when the Council of State believes that a reading of quotations from the Council of State's own party spheres brings the debate down to a level that does not deserve any comment. He's quite right about that, but it's now that the Council of States is right to say that political signals have something to say, what signals we give from this hall, have something to say, and what kind of arguments and theories about reality we give legitimacy to in this room, have something to say for the outside world. On that occasion – although the Council of State will not hesitate to comment on my statement – I would like to ask him something else, and that is on what basis Prime Minister Erna Solberg said to TV 2 on 18 October this year that there is no reason to fear asylum-trafficking in Norway, and that was with reference to fire-inflictions of asylum-seekers in Sweden. The Prime Minister said to TV 2 that there is ‘no reason to fear the same thing at home’. The reason why I'm asking is that three weeks earlier, there was a play from the police security service, which says they're afraid of increasing the threat from the right extreme. They said that on 24 September 2015. It is silent from the Minister of Justice about increasing right-wing external rhetoric in society and the extreme right-wing violence we have probably seen in the West. And before the Minister of Justice rejects any comment on this matter that it is a matter that is under investigation, etc., I can remind the Minister of Justice that two of his members of the Progressive Party in the government have recently commented on the ongoing case against Mulla Krekar on social media, so it may not be that difficult, but there are perhaps some things that are more unpleasant to comment on than others. What I'm asking is, why does the Advancement Party insist on being the only party in Norwegian politics that does not draw up a clear limit to the extremes on its wing? Just as in SV we have a completely solar-clear responsibility to strike down the hardest on anti-Semitic statements on the left side of the Palestinian movement, so the Progress Party has a responsibility not to legitimize conspiracy theories, not to legitimize hate rhetoric against the Workers' Party. That is not the responsibility of the Progress Party. That's what's sad. That's what makes us have an unworthy debate in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2146	The fact that many asylum seekers have come to Norway puts us on a major test of inclusion and integration. What makes this discussion and the job extremely difficult is, as many people have been involved, not least the progress of the party. After the decision was taken by the Stortinget, the party leader of the Progress Party invited non-governmental elected members of the People's Party to oppose the settlement of asylum seekers and refugees who have been given temporary residence, and we are well aware of the fact that this call is being followed around the local government. It helps to make difficult situations in a number of municipalities related to tackling the fact that there are a number of people who have applied for asylum and who will have temporary residence in Norway. There are many here from the Progress Party who have said that it is quite fine that party leader Siv Jensen, who is also the Council of State, has said this. Unfortunately, Siv Jensen is not in the Chamber now, but the Minister of Justice is, and the Minister of Justice, as far as I know, has not clarified his own position on this issue. I would ask the Council of State to come up and clarify to people whether the Council of State of Anders Anundsen agrees that the elected and elected representatives of the Progress Party should continue to agitate in order to prevent us from working towards the settlement of asylum seekers who are given temporary residence in Norway. There is a need for a clear response from the Minister of Justice, so that we can at least clarify whether the Minister of Justice agrees with his Council of State and its party leader, Siv Jensen, or whether the Minister of Justice loyally follows up the government's policy, as it is otherwise presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2161	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2169	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-11, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 12, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 13-19, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 20, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–17 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a special grant scheme to establish housing offers for the homeless in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a national loan scheme for municipal and county building similar to that of the Municipality of Oslo to phase out fossil oil firing.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a financing mechanism for local climate action to support municipalities and county councils in implementing climate-friendly conversion processes.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the necessary State co-financing in the municipal framework to enable the municipal sector to achieve its greenhouse gas reduction target and to make the necessary climate adaptations.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to demand competence in the climate and environment of municipal administration.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals to the UK for enhanced work for the space population, with particular emphasis on the children’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2229	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to provide a conversion of the growth grant to the municipalities concerned, without any features in the income of all municipalities.» The centre party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2246	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the criteria for the award of housing aid in order to open up housing for residents of book collections.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2263	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the draft budget for 2017 for the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation provide a comprehensive presentation of the proposal for the allocation to all Directorates.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start the necessary investigations to implement all the measures in ‘Simple to be serious’ and that this is done as a tripartite industrial cooperation as part of a comprehensive strategy against labour crime’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to reverse the changes in the start-up loan regulation, so that young people are once again a target group for start-up loans.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e2290	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5 and 8–11, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive plan for the use of common ICT solutions across the public sector, across agencies and levels of government.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that public procurement is used as a strategic tool for administrative development, for increased innovation, for achieving environmental objectives and as a tool in more climate-friendly business.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose differentiated basic grants to municipalities with asylum recipients so that the host municipality grant takes into account whether the municipality has one or more asylum recipients.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a regulatory framework allowing the House Bank to be flexible with municipalities wishing to use the grant for the rehabilitation of temporary rental dwellings.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the criteria for the HBS loan so that energy loans to the disadvantaged can become part of the start-up loan scheme and, where appropriate, other appropriate loan arrangements.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to determine and present in the budget for 2017 different models of lower and/or differentiated interest margins in the Husbank, the purpose of which is to use released funds for housing policy investments.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The size does not support a recalculation of the house-banking rate at present and asks the government to carry out a comprehensive impact assessment before any proposals are made for changes to the model for interest-rate calculations in the House Bank.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that municipalities which take merger decisions after 1 July 2016 are also entitled to cover non-recurring costs and reform aid.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e5510	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against Framework Area 1, I, Framework Area 6, I, and Framework Area 18, I.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e5523	Other Roman numerals shall be added to the list of Roman numerals under the Framework Areas 1 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e5533	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 20, from the right, from the front of the party, from the Christian party, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to allocate the allocation of 2 million. krones proposed for sale in Prop. 1 S to «Activities for particularly exposed immigrant groups», under Chapter. [[2015-2016]] 821 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants, entry 71, Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities, between the following organisations: Church Urban Commission/Primary Medical Workshop and MiRA — Resource Centre for Immigrant and Refugee Women.’ [[PMV]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-12.ana.ud2332e5651	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
