ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e26	They called the alternates, for East Agder County Lene Langemyr, and for Buskerud County Laila Gustavsen, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e44	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Solvency Horne and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main question, which is from the representative Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e51	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance said in the autumn that the state budget was well adapted to the economic situation. The working party meant from the signals we received, among other things. by the social partners, that was not the case, and we followed up with our own budget packages aimed at the labour market and for growth throughout the country. Since then, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly assured that she is following developments in the labour market. Unfortunately, it has not been enough to follow closely. Now when we write May, we see that unemployment passes 4 pst. for the first time in ten years. The most serious thing, in my opinion, is the alarming increase in youth unemployment. The unemployment rate among young people is ten times as high as for those over 54 years of age, and in the 1st quarter of 2015 it was measured at 9.4 p.m. That should make the Minister of Finance very concerned, because we know so well that for young people who stay out of work, the way in is often terribly long. If we're going to be able to avoid getting laid, we're going to have to meet youth unemployment with proper measures, and we have to do it before it snaps to an too high level. My question is really quite simple. I wonder if the Minister of Finance can answer where in the revised national budget we find the measures that show that the Minister of Finance is taking the increasing youth unemployment seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e60	There is a broad consensus in Norwegian policy that we should facilitate both high employment and low unemployment. I can assure the representative, Mr Marthinsen, that of course this is high on the government's agenda. That is why, in the autumn, we produced an expansive budget. I also remember what the Workers' Party said when they commented on the state budget in the fall. They thought it was too expansive and proposed to cut down on the use of money. They thought tax relief was unnecessary and suggested raising taxes by over 10 billion. kr. And if there's anyone who thinks that the answer to the situation in the Norwegian economy now stands, is to cut the use of money and tighten the taxes, I disagree with them and the Workers' Party in it. Rather the opposite. When you travel around and talk to the country's businesses, there are two things they specifically want. One is competitive framework conditions and the other is good infrastructure. Both are areas on which the government is offensive. Then there is every reason to follow up on the leave estimates carefully. There's a lot of uncertainty. Now there's a gap between the AKUs and the Nav numbers, and I think we should follow that closely, but a little over time. It's a little too early to say what the actual outcomes are. But there has been a desire for two measures by the social partners this spring. One has been a reversal of the permitting rules. It provides the government with the revised national budget. The second has been more action places. It also delivers the government in revised form. In addition to that, there is a broad consensus about reality, namely that the Norwegian economy is entering into a transformation, which is going to require a lot of us. But it's like for those who now experience losing their jobs, this is brutal. In the short term, the strength is that we have good welfare arrangements that allow us to maintain good quality of life pending a new job. But everyone who experiences losing a job has one goal: to get a new job. Therefore, we need to facilitate the creation of new growth-intensive jobs and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e67	Without going into a new property tax debate, it is tempting to point out that I doubt that the property tax laws, where 60 p.m.. help retired people, helping a lot for the unemployed. I also record with some concern that the Minister of Finance is so clear that she will spend time, that she believes it is too early to launch measures to meet youth unemployment. Of course, we are pleased to reverse the legislation on the permitting. We called for that already last year. Then we didn't get a pass on it, but it doesn't help the people who are already in line. A thousand more action sites are also something that the Workers' Party will support, but the reality is that there is a cut in labour market measures in the revised national budget because it has not been possible to realise the action sites adopted last year. My question was specifically about action against youth unemployment, so I'm trying to find a new question. How high does youth unemployment have to be before the government does anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e76	I totally disagree with the claim. It's not like the government's not doing anything. The government is doing something both through the education system, by investing more in research and by facilitating the transition that Norwegian business needs, so that we can develop and establish more new, promising jobs. So whether you're young and unemployed or you're an adult and you're unemployed, it's one overall goal for all of us – it's getting a job. That must be what is at the top of the government’s agenda, and hopefully also the Stortinge agenda – how do we facilitate business so that they can turn their investments towards new, exciting jobs. That's what creates growth in the Norwegian economy. But, of course, it is important that we step up efforts throughout the education system. In the case of young people, the option of leave is at least to take more education. But it's ultimately about how many new jobs we have available. That is why it must be at the top of the agenda, and the government intends to step up its efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e81	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e84	We know that youth is the first to be affected by recession. It's the ones that first have to go down, and it's the ones that get toughest frame when the companies no longer add new ones. Then it's important to have good arrangements that limit these effects. And that's where the government fails. To reverse the perms rules would be true to say nothing but lack. The bet on labour market measures is nothing to write about at home, and temporary additions are no longer available at work. The proposal for a revised budget is without action against unemployment. Labour policy spokesperson in the Progress Party, Erlend Wiborg, writes in Dagbladet that more measures are not necessary – it is not right to give full gas because the situation in the labour market is good, compared to other countries. Does the Minister of Finance agree with that? And does she think that such a wait and watch attitude impresses the many thousands of Norwegian youths who are not getting a job now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e95	Once again, I will reject the claim. There's no waiting and seeing attitude. On the contrary, a budget is staggered by good measures to increase the involvement and activity of Norwegian businesses. It is about investing record appropriations in infrastructure, both on the road and on the track, which is one of the means by which industry over the whole country demands because it reduces costs, thus strengthening the bottom line of our businesses. So the sum total provides the government in all the areas where the business community as a whole has been asking for action. There are tax reductions, there are competitive framework conditions, there is more funding for research and education, to mention the main areas — in addition to transport. This is where we deliver. So there's no waiting and seeing attitude. But what is real in relation to the unemployment trend we are seeing now, especially in the South and the West, is related to the oil and gas sector. That is the reality. It's a development that we've known for a long time would come. Then it is important that we meet it with measures that create new, promising jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e102	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e105	I want to get hold of the last Council of State said, because it is absolutely vital that one succeeds in creating new jobs, and that one manages to secure the jobs that are. The basic industrial policy with a good framework for business, investment in infrastructure and the focus on research and education is the policy that needs to be pursued. And that's where we're doing a great transition. It will be a demanding transition. But as the council said, a lot is connected to the oil and gas industry. A halve of the oil price also makes it extra demanding. But the Council of State points to special regions, the South and the West. It's clear that those regions notice it extra hard right now. One thing is to bet on the basic business policy that needs to be there over time, but right now there is an extra demanding situation. That's why the Christian People's Party is going to fight for, for example. several action places in the revised negotiations. But does the Council of State see that there is an extra need targeted at the regions she herself mentions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e115	It is at least the way that those who now experience losing their job have a hard time. That's why it's important that we have a good safety net through our welfare systems, which ensures us at a time when we're out of work. But then it is that the unemployment rate in both the South and the West has also been very low compared to the national average, and has now risen on the national average. There has been a very broad consensus between the social partners – all the actors who are sitting and doing calculations and views on the Norwegian economy – on what is the reality picture, what challenges we are facing, and what we need to do in the short and long term to overcome the transition challenge we are now facing. We don't have a crisis. We still have a high level of employment and low unemployment, but we need to take action to avoid increasing unemployment. I think that matters to all of us. This involves both the fact that we have now been reversed, which means something to the core competence of some of the shipyards and the tipping skills around the coast, and the fact that many of them with the core competence – thank God – are now getting jobs in other parts of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e124	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e127	Many have become unemployed, and that is dramatic for the individual, for the family, for everyone around and for the local environment. It is serious what we see, and it requires action specifically directed at young people. But it's not yet very dramatic for the country as a whole. One of the main factors that has gone better than you can imagine is that we have our own currency and crown, not euro, that we have had a large fall in the krone price and have increased competitiveness in Norwegian industry and in Norwegian business in general. Erna Solberg said earlier: ‘Another argument that is becoming more and more important to me is that in EU membership we can also join the euro cooperation. This would be a great advantage for many Norwegian enterprises’. So the governor of Öystein Olsen said in his year speech this winter: ‘Without a currency of its own, the situation would be more challenging. The social partners had to do the job alone. Experience from other countries in Europe shows that it can be demanding’. What opinion does the Minister of Finance most agree with?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e144	There is no debate going on, as far as I know, in Norwegian policy to replace the crown with another currency, so I am not quite sure if I understand the question of Battle Violence Vedum. What I agree with Mr Vedum's report is that it is not dramatic for the country as a whole. Rather, on the contrary, much is going very well. One of the reasons why large parts of competitive business now have a stronger competitive advantage is that the crown has weakened a lot in the last two years. But these companies also know very well that a floating dollar price gives a good payoff in periods and a little less good payoff in periods, precisely because the dollar price is floating. It's also a consequence of us being a small, open economy, dependent on oil price developments. But with the sharp fall in oil prices, we have also seen a positive trend in terms of the krone price, which strengthens the competitiveness of very many of our companies, and we are going to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e149	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e152	Some of the reasons why we are in the current situation are that Norway is going through a difficult transition — from being extremely dependent on a raw material production to creating a new business. The green shift has been delayed for a long time, now we really have to start. Many who now lose their jobs are highly skilled workers who should actually be easy to convert into new industries, into new industries, into new jobs for the future. Now they have to be rigged, and then it's important to focus on the changes that the Minister of Finance spoke about, but it's also very important to focus on research and development in order to be able to use the knowledge of a new business that we're going to be with and create for the future. Does the Minister of Finance appreciate how important research is to be able to make this change, how important it is to bet on the kind of forward-looking knowledge industries that we are now going to convert our high oil competence to in order to get to the green shift that we know we need to go through?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e161	Yes, the Minister of Finance understands that. That is why the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has just strengthened the research effort – because we know that it is important. It is quite obvious that the transformation of the Norwegian economy is now about reducing the division, creating greater growth opportunities in other parts of Norwegian business, but I think it is important to stress that oil and gas-related business will be an important part of the Norwegian economy in the foreseeable future. What's behind the curtain is that we've known for a long time that this industry would be a little bit smaller than what we've been waiting for over the last few decades. It will give less growth impulses to the Norwegian economy than we've expected in the last decades. This means that we will be able to free highly skilled workers, as the representative Skei Grande talks about, who have been heavily sought – not least engineers – to other parts of Norwegian business and public administration. It is a transition that is now taking place to the benefit of those who have called for competence, but it is obviously a challenge for the industry that is now disembarking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e168	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e171	In the languages of the throne, the King said, ‘The oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth. And we have to adapt to the Earth's carbon emissions." In practice, we see little of that in government policy. The need for conversion is great, as the Minister of Finance himself has been involved, but government medicine seems to be more of the same and makes Norway even more oil dependent, not turning investments, as the Minister of Finance said instead. Where does the Minister of Finance think it is most important to spend the big money now? Is it for new oil expansions in the north, like the Castberg field, or is it for the green industry on land, new technology and our green industries, that provide new, safe jobs in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e181	It is possible to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. We need to facilitate good, predictable, long-term, competitive framework conditions for a very large and important industry such as oil and gas-related business is and will be in the foreseeable future. That's what the government's planning to do. In addition, however, we provide a competitive framework to enable Norwegian businesses and others to make new, exciting investments in other types of business in Norway, which can be exciting and promising in the future. I do not agree with the representative Serigstad Valen that the government has not done anything. Firstly, we have turned investment towards infrastructure, tax reduction, research and education, which are the three most growth-promoting measures in which we can invest. Secondly, it is raised beyond doubt that this government has delivered more on the climate and the environment side than the red-green government did in its eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e188	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e192	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The Christian People's Party is concerned that families feel that they have a real choice when the child becomes a year old. Then it is important to have a high enough cash support, and it is important that there are kindergartens available in the municipality when the family needs them. That is why we fought in the 2015 budget for several kindergartens, so that even children who were born at the time of ‘error’, i.e. after 1 September, could have the possibility of kindergarten. In the budget agreement, there were strong increases in the funds for kindergartens, and it is now set at 307 million. SEK to 3,400 new kindergartens in 2015. There is a broad consensus that there is a need for greater flexibility in childcare and, in addition, for high-quality care in all kindergartens. I expect the Ministry of Knowledge to follow closely the rate of expansion, but the question is: How does the Department follow up that the money is being spent on the kindergarten sector, and how many new places are now being developed, or are already being built in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e199	First, I would like to say that I fully agree with the representative, Mr Becquerad, that this is a joint effort for the cooperation parties, but that it was the Christian People's Party that received a significant increase. We had added 100 million from the government. kr to new kindergartens. After the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, there were 233 million. kr to there. This makes it possible for municipalities to build 3,400 places, and the intention is very clear both from the government and from the Stortinget. We want a more flexible recording. We say that in and of itself there is full child care coverage, but there is a date stamping there. We want municipalities to use this money to give parents access to kindergarten, not just those who are entitled to it. So it is still the way that that money does not come with a strong earmark. That is, we don't force the municipalities to use them only in kindergartens, so the municipalities have an opportunity to use them on anything else, even though the Stortinget, the majority of the parties, the cooperation parties, have been clear that there are kindergartens for which we have allocated this money. The final phase of how many kindergartens we get will come at the end of this year. That is when the municipalities officially report. But we're already in the department with a round where we call 15-20 of the biggest city municipalities to check what they've spent the money for. I would also like to say that it is worth noting to the municipalities that Stortinget's intention, and the intention of the cooperation party, by granting this money, was that there would be more flexible admissions, more kindergartens. Now I'm not going to wonder what might come in the future, but it's clear that if it turns out that these funds are largely used for completely different things, it might be the Stortinget that will have to be even more specific in the future. But there'll be speculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e208	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the 2015 budget agreement continues to provide for the continued strong expansion of the kindergarten sector, and that several one-year-olds are offered a children's playground. It is important to reduce the waiting time of the parents who want children’s playground for children born on or after 1 September – that is the date stamp the Council of State refers to. We all understand the difficult situation a family experiences when there is a need for kindergarten, but the offer from the municipality is waiting. The question is, what does the Council of State think is the key to ensuring that all families throughout the country will experience the presence of nursery facilities nearby when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e217	Three brief points: the first is that we had discussions in this room about a year ago, where the government had done a calculation of how much we should have of the kindergarten framework in connection with cash support conversion, which meant that a lot of parties – and a lot of municipalities – said that now we are losing a lot of money to kindergartens, we have to reduce here. It went into place, and then it went over 300 million. NOK 3400 for new kindergartens. I expect those municipalities that said they have to reduce because they thought there was less money, plus on when there is money with such clear intention from Stortinget. So point two: I think our goal is clear and clear, and that is that we want flexibility in the recording, and that as many municipalities as possible go away from a kind of date stamping. So the government's opinion has been that the best solution is through good local solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e224	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e227	The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the strong increase we received in the kindergarten sector through the year's budget. That's why it surprises me when my own municipality, according to Fredriksstad Blad, says they get 3 million. kr less to kindergarten in 2015, because, as the Council of State says, we have added leadership in the year's budget to increase it. We also had a discussion here last year, as the Council of State says, regarding the technical adjustments around the expected use of cash support versus kindergartens. I expect this to be coordinated if this fails. How does the Council of States follow this up, when we get such signals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e232	Now I must honestly admit that I do not remember what is the home municipality of the representative. It is tempting to ask for the rapporteur's phone number, for example, and then it is possible to call and hear what is the reason they cut down on kindergartens, if that's what they do, while the Storting and the cooperation parties have allocated money to 3,400 new places. There is a clear message in front of the municipal elections, a clear message to the voters as well: Ask in your municipality, do not accept the excuse that less money has come from national teams, because it does not. More money has come to more kindergartens – 3,400 places – and everything is at the disposal of increased local flexibility, i.e. more kindergartens that allow parents to have room when they need it. So there's a more general question: how much do you have to force the municipalities to do that? There has been the government’s attitude – I know that the Christian People’s Party has had a slightly different attitude – that the best solutions are found locally, through local priorities and local arrangements. We know that in e.g. Good bourgeois municipalities such as Drammen are now being selected in kindergarten to all from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e239	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e242	There are 8,300 children in kindergarten queues, so the government council is probably happy with the additional appropriations that came to the Storting in kindergarten. What we're hearing here is that there's no certainty that babysitting money is used for kindergartens. My question is therefore: why won't the Council of State give parents the security it would be to be guaranteed a nursery place by legislating two admissions? It had actually made the parents sure that the nursery was there. Now it's going to be a game of chance, as the Council just explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e249	It'll surprise me if this is the first time the representative of Aasrud hears that these funds are not hard-brained, that is. that the municipalities are not legally entitled to use them for anything else. So this also shows that the job was not finished. It was representatives of the former government who said that we had full babysitting. Well, the situation shows that a lot of parents have to wait, they have to wait, and that's exactly why the collaboration parties have given money to 3,400 new places this year, which gives greater flexibility. Then there's a discussion about having a centralized system instead. I think a centralized system would be more bureaucratic. I think it would be more difficult to implement. In addition, I believe that those municipalities that have invested well in kindergartens, who have invested in flexibility in the recording, will also benefit from having more seats, and that not all funds are directed against those who have not done a good enough job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e256	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e260	To say that there is a strong expansion would well be to take a little hard in, sail if there has been an intention on the part of the government to fulfill a desire for more kindergartens. Now it's the way that if you're going to have a real freedom of choice to choose whether or not your kids are going to go to kindergarten, it's important that you have a babysitting place when you want it. There have been proposals for two kindergartens in the past, and there has also been an explicit target for the Right. At the same time, we have become aware that the Right operates with a little bit of high thinking if they want to remove the child's pension and spend the money on the free kindergarten and the SFO. I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge what other ways he sees himself in order to achieve his own goal of giving everyone who wants to do that, offering kindergarten space rather than making it mandatory for all kids to go to kindergarten and cut child welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e269	I think the technical description of what the Right is doing is a discussion of politics, at the beginning of the programme process. I have not registered that someone in the Right has proposed that kindergarten should be mandatory, but there has been a proposal from a sample working in the Right that it should be “free”. In this case, it is strictly not free, it is tax-financed, which is what – at least most – we call ‘free’ in Norway. I believe that there will be more places, is an important element. There may be other things in the legislation that also make it possible to gain more flexibility, but the main point I think is that we are increasing the appropriations – 3,400 new places that municipalities have the opportunity to build this year – as well as that we are reversing what several municipalities thought was a miscalculation from last year. This should provide the best basis for municipalities to say that they need more flexibility. Based on our calculations, it's 30 pst. several 1-year-olds who will have kindergarten. It will be an important contribution because many will have room earlier than they have the right to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e278	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e281	One of the reasons why it is important to develop kindergartens is that parents should have the opportunity to work and to have a day-to-day life that they themselves want. Another reason for expanding kindergartens is that the kids have a good time in kindergarten. There's a lot of important learning going on there, and it's important given what I often call 'early effort'. It's a challenge that many of those who should have gone to kindergarten don't go to kindergarten for different reasons. Many had enjoyed it very well. For example, those who come from a non-Norwegian home as their main goal, like kindergarten as their only language training arena, and that is why it is very important. Now we're doing free core time to make it possible for those who can't afford it. But what other measures — in addition to free core time — does the Council of State see that we can get those who need kindergarten into the nursery?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e290	The representative has limited his time, so she doesn't get everything the cooperation parties have done. It is not only free core time, it is also a reduced price – ensure that all municipalities have reduced the price for those who have poor advice – in addition to the 3,400 places. As for what we have to consider in the long term, I have to take a different approach: in the Groruddals project, where there has been a free core time, they have actively recruited the nursery. They didn't just say, "Here's an offer, it's free." They have been actively involved, for example: Mosques and saying, "We want to work with you." They have done this both to break down prejudices against the Norwegian kindergarten system and to make it very clear to those who have a minority background — perhaps they have children who start school without being able to Norwegian — that if they send their children to kindergarten, they get a better starting point than they would otherwise have. In this way, with the combination of low prices – which the cooperation parties have now ensured – and the active introduction of children into kindergarten, it has been possible to raise the incidence of childhood participation among some of the children who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e297	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e300	I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for the question and at the same time say that I am a little surprised that the question came from just a Christian People's Party. The first government party – together with the partners – did when they came into government, was to cut about 600 million. kr for kindergartens when it comes to both price and admission. And now it applies to patching up this situation. One might wonder what kind of kindergarten policy the government in general has. One has cut at the average kindergarten price. A person does not want to perform a higher level of competence for children. The Council of State has also announced that they will not support the proposal from SV that 50 pst. the pedagogical competence of the pedagogical staff of the pedagogical staff shall be exercised. My open question to the minister is: What is the message from the government to all the parents who want better and more spacious kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e309	The message is, first of all, that there are 3,400 new places this year. The message is, on the other hand, that the maximum price for those who have a decent income has increased a little. That means it's back on – I don't remember exactly – the 2008 level or the 2009 level, but at the same time, we provide cheaper kindergarten for those who have bad advice. What was the situation before was that it was a law for this, but 15 pst. of the municipalities had no moderation arrangements. In other words, for many years, people with good finances would have paid exactly the same thing from year to year for kindergarten, rather than ensuring social policy measures aimed at those who need kindergarten the most. In the case of quality means for kindergarten, they have doubled in two years. We spend more money today teaching more kindergarten teachers. We spend more money today to give several assistants the opportunity to take kindergarten teacher training. We spend more money today on educating rulers and on further training them than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e318	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e321	Last Wednesday, half an hour before the Group meeting of the Progress Party, the Labour and Social Affairs Minister Robert Eriksson presented a settlement in which the country's retirement pensioners came out with lost purchasing power. So the pensioners get less purchasing power with this settlement than they do now. But in the evening post we could read that even if the social security settlement was done half an hour before the group meeting, there was a well-prepared note in place from the social security fraction of the Progress Party in their group meeting – a note where the members of the Advance Party had cleared the opportunity with the department to overwhelm their own government council here on the Stortinget, and were calculated that it would cost 276 million. kr if pensioners are not to have a real income decline. The same note also explained that the proposals for improvements will not be adopted. Let me quote from the note of the Progress Party: ‘The likelihood of this proposal being downgraded is relatively high, but then we have shown that we take the country’s pensioners seriously and made sure that the responsibility for the loss of pensioners lies with the parties behind the pension agreement.’ Such a game doesn't take the country's pensioners seriously. Politics, social security, pensions for people are turned into a political game where the main point of the Progress Party is its own uprising, not pensions for people. The people of the People of the Advance Party on the Stortinget manage with the people of the Advance Party in government to run a scheduled double game. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Was she aware that the Progress Party on the Stortinget had cleared with the Government Progress Party that more money should be put into the social security settlement here on the Stortinget than the State Council of the Advance Party and the Government proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e335	I can assure the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, that social security schemes are important, including for this government. But I might then remind Battle Violence Vedum that the rules of social security settlement are governed by law through a broad settlement in the Stortinget that all the parties except the Progress Party were behind. So it's going to have to change the law before you can change the rules. The initiative of this government is to review the principles of the annual regulation of pensions, and the whole purpose of reviewing the principles is to avoid a trend over several years where pensioners are at risk of losing purchasing power as a result of moderate wage settlement. The fact that we have a moderate salary bill this year is good for the competitiveness of Norwegian business. However, one consequence of the pension agreement entered into by the other parties here at Stortinget in 2011 is that there could be a long-term impact on the low-purchasing pensioners. That's what this government has taken seriously. That is why we have invited all the parliamentary leaders in Stortinget to talk to to help us avoid such a development over time. I think this is a good initiative. I believe it is an initiative that takes the pensioners seriously, and I hope that it is an initiative supported by the Centre party, despite the fact that they are part of the pension agreement adopted by the Stortinget. Then the representative asks me to refer from internal discussions within the Progress Party Group. I'm not going to start with that. The party leader in the Progress Party does not do that, either from the Stockholm pulpit or in other forums. If there is anything the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is wondering about the big group of the Progress Party, I think he should go and talk to his colleagues here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e347	I understand that the leader of the Progress Party and the country's finance minister are trying as hard as possible not to answer the question I asked, because the answer is quite unpleasant. Either the answer is yes – the Minister of Finance knew about the planned double game – or the answer is no, the Minister of Finance says that she does not have control and an overview of what her own people in her own department do, and what her own big group does. So, yes, I know the planned double game even though I'm the next head of government, or: No, I have no control over what my own group and my own state councils are doing. So I repeat the question: was she aware that the Progress Party in the government had cleared up with the people of Stortinget that more money should be put into the social security settlement here at Stortinget than the Progress Party government and the government suggested? It's a simple question: Did the council know about it, or did she not know about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e356	I don't think this is the least unpleasant. On the contrary, I am very pleased that this government has taken an initiative to review the principles underlying the pension agreement. This means, in the situation we are now, a moderate wage settlement at the bottom – which is good for the competitiveness of Norwegian business. But it has the consequence for all the country's pensioners that they get reduced purchasing power over time. The fact that we have taken that initiative and have engaged in dialogue with the other parties on the Stortinget to see how we can fix this is good. I hope that also means that we get a majority in the Biggest behind such an initiative, just to make sure that the pensioners in the future get better purchasing power than they'll risk if we get more years to come with moderate wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e361	It is open to follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e364	Whether the finance minister and the party leader knew or not, there is no beautiful sight when one of the government parties' open-eyed group chooses to fail its own government and, through a speculative game, tries to mislead both the voters and the pensioners. ‘A shameless double game’, wrote the Evening Post in its comment. And a double game is that when the party stands for one thing in government and something else in the Storting. It's deliberately speculated to be a government-frp and a big-frp. It'll be the kind of manoeuvre that doesn't trick anyone in the length. It is still possible to make changes if the Progress Party considers this to be serious. The proposition has not yet been made and it is possible for the Progress Party to make changes to the proposition submitted on Friday. It would also have been possible for the Advance Party to take hers in government, which sometimes does when one deeply disagrees with what is proposed. Why did the Progress Party not choose to take this one on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e373	I just want to distance myself from the claim that this is a speculative game. It has been known throughout all years that the Progress Party both in opposition and in position has a real commitment to the country's pensioners. That's precisely why, in a situation where we government on the basis of a pension settlement, the Progress Party has not joined – but accepted as a prerequisite for being in government – we have taken an initiative by the government and have entered into dialogue with the other parties on the Stortinget to see how we can in the future ensure that the purchasing power development of pensioners is better than it will be if it continues in a time of moderate wage settlement. I believe this is an important signal for the country's pensioners, and I hope that this is a problem that the Centre Party is also taking seriously – the Centre Party was, after all, involved in the pension agreement the Progress Party was not in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e378	Truls Wickholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e381	This weakens confidence in the whole system, and Battle violence Vedum describes it well. The Council of State is negotiating with the pensioners. At the same time, the Ministry, on behalf of the Advance Party, calculates how they can overwhelm their own government. The note is calculated, written and delivered to the bulk of the Progress Party. Is it that there is no notification to the Minister of Finance, to the party leader from the Secretary of State or political advisers in the Ministry of Labour? Is she really not familiar with this? – I have a hard time believing that. It's not just the opposition that thinks this is alarming. Arve Kambe says, "I thought the Health Declaration was in place. Trond Helleland says: I hope this never happens again. But here stands the Minister of Finance and more or less defends what has happened. Can she finally confirm or deny that she and her party have been involved in a double game in government and big business?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e388	I do not think at all that this weakens the trust in the system – rather on the contrary. It is that the system we have is regulated by the law of the Storting, and it is also that once the government has taken the initiative taken by the government, it is based on a recognition that some of the assumptions in the pension agreement can be put on the challenge of the country's pensioners over time by reducing purchasing power at several years of moderate wage settlement. It's a fact. The fact that the government has now taken an initiative to discuss that issue with all the parties on the Stortinget, I think it is good, because in the future we can provide a system that ensures a good purchasing power development for the country's pensioners, even if we were to have several years of moderate wage settlement. I guess it's also a problem the Workers' Party should be concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e393	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e396	It may be a bit demanding to know which signals to deal with, but I agree with the Council of State that there is something set out in the law of the Storting, and that this is the basis. And then we see that an initiative is being taken to see if the next year might possibly be refundable for the five-apple of the month on average as it might seem that the pensioners are getting less purchasing power for the current year. It's a discussion that we're all interested in taking. However, when the Minister of Finance is so clear on the different estimates, and perhaps especially as the head of the party of progress, some analyses or calculations have also been made on future prospects when reference is made to the fact that there may be several consecutive years of reduced purchasing power, and possibly what it will have of proceeds. For I expect that the pension reform, which makes substantial savings for the coming generations – i.e. lower pensions if you don't work much longer – will also be a zero-end game, which the Minister of Finance is particularly concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e403	I am not quite sure if I understood the question to the representative of Ropstad. But let me repeat what I have said several times now, given a situation where we get several years of moderate pay settlement, and it may well happen in view of the change in the Norwegian economy. We know that this year's settlement has an impact on the competitiveness of large parts of Norwegian business. But one consequence of that is that the purchasing power development of pensioners is being weakened. It is regulated by the pension agreement. If this development continues, it will in reality mean a somewhat more demanding economic situation for some of the country's pensioners in the future. Therefore, the government has taken this initiative – because we believe it is reasonable that pensioners too have a purchasing power development that allows them to keep order in their own economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e409	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e412	The reason for this government's existence lies in the cooperation agreement and the Sundvolden declaration, where the Progress Party Group has agreed to govern on the basis of the pension agreement. The fact that a currently on its own website announces that it is ‘uncurrent’ is something I hope the Minister of Finance looks at as a pesky situation. But I'm going to do a little more concrete work. The proposal announced by the Group of the Alliance of the Progressive Alliance represents an increase in the cost of 276 million. kr. My first question to the Minister of Finance is still in the bets of the government one think one should cut in order to find room for the new bet from the big group to the Progress Party. My second question is: Now it's late, but the government will have to come up with a recommendation for the year's social security. Would the Minister of Finance recommend that the Stortinget follow the recommendation of the government or the proposal of the Progress Party Group?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e419	It is quite right that the basis for this government is laid down both in the cooperation agreement between the four cooperation parties and in the Sundvolden declaration, which is the government management tool. Then the bodies of the Progress Party concluded that we should govern based on the pension agreement we were not part of back in 2011. The initiative taken by the government on the occasion of the case is to challenge the Storting – invite the Stortinget – to a discussion about the long-term consequences of having several years of moderate pay settlement, which will give the impression that pensioners will experience reduced purchasing power. I think it's good that the Progress Party has an honest and real commitment to the country's pensioners. We're going to keep having that. But it is raised beyond doubt what is the government's governing body, and it has joined the Progress Party's bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e426	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e429	I don't think the retired people are particularly impressed by the exercise we see here now. It is clear that the government knew that this verdict came when they were in the social security negotiations. What the government did then was negotiate on the basis of the legislation that was, and then come to the Stortinget and say that maybe we can do something to next year. What in the world is the reason why the State Council of the Advance Party and the Government did not come to the Storting and said that here is a verdict that we don't really think nobody will accept? Because I don't think anyone really thinks it's right that the pensioners should go down in performance. But the government didn't. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: if the government had come to the Grand Duchy now and said that here is an effect we don't want, we will make a bill to ensure that no pensioners go down in pay – which parties does the Minister of Finance think would say no to such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e436	It's hard for me to answer, all the time, except for the Progress Party, that's behind the pension agreement, including SV. So when we first find out that a moderate wage settlement can have the consequence over time that the pensioners get reduced purchasing power, I think we should do something about it. That initiative has been taken by this government – this government, not that government SV was part of. We have taken that initiative because we believe it is important, and I hope that SV will also agree that we can look at these criteria, so that we ensure that the pensioners also get a good purchasing power development despite moderate wage settlement in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e441	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e444	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In City of Old Oslo there are two schools, Tøen and Vahl, which are located in approx. 500 meters apart. They have about the same type of students and the same type of parents — the schools are quite the same. But at Vahl School, 43 pst. by the students in the SFO, while all first-class students in the Tøen are in the SFO. It shows us that it is an important offer, it has potential, and the price of the offer has something to say about whether one gets all the students in the SFO offer. If we look at the country as a whole, SFO has quite major challenges. And many of the feedback we get is that there are some pretty big differences in the quality of the offer given on the different SFOs. Many also react a little to the fact that it is relatively expensive to go to SFO – at least if they come from kindergarten with a maximum price, which is a full-day offer, and then go to SFO at almost the same price, or perhaps even more expensive, for many less hours. Many parents think they are living in a bad time: the children have a whole day at school, and then they have many things to do afterwards. The room of opportunity we have within the SFO, enables us to put in physical activity, homework, cultural school and follow-up for those who needed it. Right Kristin Vinje has this week had a play on free SFO and free kindergarten. Unfortunately, that debate has to a large extent been about being in favour of or against child protection. It is clear that the free SFO has a price, but I wish the Council of State could say something about the opportunity we had for knowledge development if we had put in place free SFO for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e457	It was the economist Milton Friedman who said, ‘There’s no such thing as a free lunch’, that is, there is no such thing as free lunch. It is worth remembering here that ‘free’ – as I said – is tax funded. It's a re-priority of the resources we take from the citizens through tax. That being said, there's a big difference in SFO. There are large differences in price – from zero in some municipalities to over 2,500 in other municipalities. There may also be large differences in content. Oslo has an activity school, AKS, where they are trying to do just part of what Nybø points to: provide homework – which we have, and which has been paid by the state – and activities, so they try to have it organised more. Others do not — they feel more like a school leisure scheme, with some adults looking after it, but no more than that. I believe that the SFO should remain the responsibility of the municipalities. I'm positive that the municipalities are looking at how they can make SFO better, how the offer can strengthen and build up under the learning that takes place at school, and that maybe you can get more leisure activities and volunteer teams and organisations into the offer. All of that I'm positive. But the most important school initiatives for this government are not to erase the distinction between what is school day and what is school leisure. Our main school initiatives are the teacher's bet, the knowledge school's bet, and the real science strategy. And here there is so much need in the ordinary school, within the usual hours, in every subject – from art and crafts to mathematics – that I believe that we should not have a big and massive stake in the SFO until we have solved the challenges we face in our everyday school life. That doesn't mean that SFO shouldn't get better in some municipalities. Neither does it mean that the school day can't be any longer, but then there must be science, knowledge, and qualified teachers who are the leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e466	I understand the Minister of Knowledge there that in terms of knowledge efforts, it is in today's school day that we are going to do it first, but getting a free SFO in addition to all the professional one can fill the SFO time with, will also make you think a little bit about children's and parents' everyday life and the disposal of time. There's been a development. When I was a kid, there were very few in my class – I think there was one student – who used the SFO. The rest of us went home. But today there is a much more common offer, and many more want to make use of it. Every day to people is also different. Some of the feedback we get is that we need to adapt the public system to the everyday life that people have, and to the challenges that they have. I think it is positive that the Right, by Kristin Vinje, is now raising that debate, which allows us to have a debate on how to set up the public offerings. And even if the Minister of Knowledge wants to invest in school knowledge – is the Minister of Knowledge involved in the discussion on how to organise children and parents' everyday lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e473	To quote the Minister of Finance: I think at all it is not uncomfortable that this discussion is coming. I think it's an exciting discussion as well. Parents’ everyday life today is different from that of a relatively short time ago, for example. when the representative Nybø and the undersigned went to school. It also imposes other requirements on e.g. the school leave scheme. SFO is experienced by many parents as a relatively expensive offer, especially if you have more children, and you want to get back to high quality. That being said, I believe that the school obviously has to school for what happens in the family life of people, that more have both parents out in work, and that many are in time together. But the school's most important mission is not to contribute to reducing the clutter of time at home. The school's main mission is to teach the children what they need. My main bets are still going to be school day, trades and teachers, even if I like to join a discussion about SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e481	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e484	One of the school's most important tasks is to balance social differences and give all children equal opportunities, no matter what the start, so I want to follow up on asking the Minister for Children, who is responsible for combating child poverty and ensuring that we have a society with equal opportunities for all children. In Kristin Vinje's proposal, there was also a suggestion to cut child-responsiveness – one of the things that really matters to those families who have really bad advice. This is also about the fact that free kindergarten and free SFO would give a great opportunity to the families who today have poor advice, and who may need the places of all, most of all. So I want the Council of State to first assure us that they will not take child welfare from the poorest, and then that we must look at kindergarten and SFO also as an important part of the fight against poverty and the fight for all children to have an equal start in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e491	I am very pleased that I can assure the representative Skei Grande that we will have good welfare arrangements for families with children in the future as well. It is important that we have good welfare arrangements that ensure families. It is especially important that we have a safety net for those families that fall outside. I am very pleased that the government, along with the cooperation parties, has now promoted a strategy against child poverty. In this context, we will set up a sample to look at all welfare schemes that include families, including child welfare. There's a sample that the government is now about to cut down. I agree with the representative that both kindergarten and activity school are important for those with a minority background in particular. And the scheme of activity school that's at Mortensrud School shows that there's an increase in attendance at the activity school. There's something that needs to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e500	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e503	I also use the opportunity to ask questions to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, because I have to say that with regard to the proposal that the representative Kristin Vinje has raised, it is quite surprising for the Christian People's Party that the Right considers managing the family's economy by removing the child's pension and assuming that the child has to go to kindergarten or SFO to get these funds. It's very governing and really the opposite of freedom of choice. It's also very radical possibly to remove the child's fear, which has been a scheme for 70 years. One should think carefully before removing such a universal system that is so important to so many. It has also been pointed to its smoothing effect and its importance in terms of poverty. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister for Children and Gender Affairs of the Progress Party thinks about this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e512	I am very pleased that we can have political discussions in Norway where the parties can have a debate on new policies. I see that there are several parties that have spent the last year on, and now it is the Right that has raised new thoughts. What's important to put in place is that child-restraint has been a universal system that we've had since the early 1970s. It has not been increased since 1996, and it is only the Progress Party that proposes – now I see SV proposing the same thing – to adjust the price of the child. There are no other parties that have been called for. That's why I'm very happy that we're now putting down a sample to look at all the welfare arrangements of the small children's families, including child welfare. There has not been a 20-year review of child welfare, and a lot has happened to the families in the 20-year period. Therefore, it is important that we go through the welfare systems we have to ensure that families have good welfare arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e519	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e522	:I want to ask the question to the Minister of Knowledge. I have understood that this is preliminary policy developments, as the Council of State pointed out earlier – from a sample in the Right. It's always interesting to discuss new policies, seas whether child welfare has been an old and universal order. But like the Christian People's Party, we in the Center Party are probably also seeing that these are a little bit of new tactics from the Right, because as the Center Party, the Right Party has also been concerned with the freedom of choice for the family. At the same time, we know that the cost of children from 10 years up, in their teens, is also very demanding for very many families. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if he believes it is right that there are children from 10 to 18 years who have to pay to finance the introduction of the compulsory kindergarten and the SFO for all small children, which has previously been opposed. And I say'mandatory' because it's going to be a forced control of kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e529	It's not going to be mandatory. I do not agree with the proposal. I believe that there are very good arguments to do as the government and the cooperation parties have done: to lower the price for those who need kindergarten the most. I'm more than happy to be open to a discussion about SFO. I also believe that it is relevant to take a discussion on child welfare. Because child welfare has been quiet for so many years, it's so awfully expensive to increase child welfare for everyone, and it means little to families with good finances, but very much to those with bad finances. But it's not very focused, it's just too low for those who need it the most. I think there are two disadvantages to the proposal. One is that introducing so-called free kindergarten and so-called free SFOs will be primarily a support to parents who have good finances; it is not a targeted effort against poverty. The second is that at the same time, if you take away child welfare, you take away one of the incomes that caregivers with poor advice actually have to dispose of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e538	Øystein Langholm Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e541	The representative, Nybø, is asking an interesting question. The working party is also concerned that there is high participation and low price both in the SFO and in the kindergartens. However, we are surprised that the government's right-wing knowledge committee assesses measures as a free nursery at the expense of child welfare the same month as the government proposes an increase in the rates for kindergartens for families with income above NOK 476,000. I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge: what makes an income of 476,000 kroner, which does not qualify to be referred to as a high income, qualify for a higher payment for kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e549	The most important reason is that if you want to have lower payments for those who have the worst money, you have to set the limit somewhere. It's true that the maximum price is increasing for others, but that means that actually, if you take inflation and price rise into account, the nursery price is back where it was in 2011, so some particularly dramatic increase I don't think you can say that it is. Nor should it surprise the Labour Party that there is much discussion, for example. what to use child welfare for. Not many months have passed since a sample in the Workers' Party proposed using the child benefit to finance school food. After all, the Labour Party, or the New Workers' Party, which is now not so concerned that the policy is to be linked and what is left of income and expenditure, ended up adopting both parts, to have both school food and to keep child welfare, i.e. an unfunded promise. It goes into a lot of the Party's school policy, where politics is very little about school, and a lot about a lot of other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e556	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e559	I'm a little confused with the government's position, that the government doesn't want to do anything with the SFO until you've solved the challenges in the school. It's actually a sequence decision that I think is very strange. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, Imagine that the Minister of Transport will not solve the challenges on the roads until one has solved the challenges on the railways, or that the Minister of Justice will not address societal preparedness until one has tackled the challenges of refugees. It's absurd that the government has seen SFO 'on the cold', that one doesn't want to do anything about this – God knows how far ahead of time. For SV's part, we want a framework plan for SFO, so there are limitations. We want to ensure a content, a scale and a price that is for everyone. We also want to extend the school day, which will also be eaten by the SFO. My question is, will the government not take any initiative towards SFO during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e568	I am not going to rule out initiatives around the SFO, but I believe that it is essentially the present system where the municipalities have a great responsibility for the school leisure system. This means that there are local differences – there are differences between municipalities and municipalities. Some municipalities are very good, others have more low-threshold services, at least on the content page. I think that's the starting point for SFO. So it's right that there's a disagreement. And it's not just a disagreement that gives rise to the need to prioritize resources, the disagreement lies simply in: what is the great promise we need in School-Norway? The big plan is that the big promise should be about almost everything else than content in school — everything other than the knowledge school. It's about school food, it's about school leisure arrangements, it's about a longer school day, where you can't guarantee a longer school day with qualified teachers, but rather a kind of half-way school that erases the difference between the knowledge school – the hours, the subjects, the teachers – and the other. My priority is on the first, SV's priority is on the second.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e577	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e580	My question is to the Minister of Finance. Why does the government think it is right to give increased purchasing power to millionaires and less purchasing power to old-age pensioners and thousands of disabled people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e585	I'm not sure if I understand that question. Since its accession, this government has been committed to reducing the overall tax burden in Norway. So far, we've reduced taxes and taxes by 12.5 billion. kr. It is important above all because it strengthens the ability of business to change in a demanding time, and it is the most important basis we have for creating new jobs – what, after all, is the most important thing for most of us, namely a safe job to go to. In addition, of course, we can strengthen the purchasing power development of very many through some tax reductions, which this government has carried out many of them since we joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e592	That the Minister of Finance boasts of 12.5 billion. kr in the tax code, explains why I asked this question, because most of the money goes to well-meaning, rich individuals and some well-fed pensioners. But for the rest of the pensioners, and for thousands of disabled people, it's worse. There are many misdemeanors who lose more than NOK 6000 per year, for example, without any compensation from the government. I think I have to repeat my question, because the fact remains that the Minister of Finance has approved a policy, and is implementing a policy, where rich people are getting more purchasing power, and where pensioners and disabled people are getting less purchasing power. So why does the government think it's right to give increased purchasing power to millionaires and less purchasing power to old-age pensioners and thousands of losers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e599	I am not surprised that SV is still against making any reliefs in the property tax. The Progress Party and the Right went to the elections to reduce the strange wealth tax because there is a strange tax on capital, which is not on foreign capital invested in Norway. That discrimination is not good, especially in the situation we are now facing, where it is essential that we facilitate Norwegian capital investment in new Norwegian jobs. Then I want to remind the representative Serigstad Valen that the malformation to which he refers was adopted under the previous government without transitional arrangements. When this government was going to implement and implement the decision made by Stortinget in 2011, we discovered that there were distortions in the system that we had to do something about. That is why we also presented the scheme together with a transitional arrangement that would facilitate the situation for many. In addition, in the revised budget, we have now adjusted this so that more people will improve on the further improvement of the transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e606	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e609	It's not just the pensioners who experience cutbacks with this government, it does, for example. Lonely caregivers. It may not be so strange when the Party of Advancement sits in government. Many of these lonely caregivers have a very high risk of ending up in poverty. That is why we have had the transitional aid, and it has worked well. Fafo has examined it, and it's the line of work, so it's useless -- people can qualify and get a salary they can support themselves and the kids on. But what does the government do? So this is the second time you're proposing a big cut in this system, and the same week that the government put forward a bet against increasing child poverty, so they cut out the transitional benefit to single-parents of 250 million. kr. Then we know that fewer people will come to work. How can the government implement such a cut when they know that it leads to more child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e619	I am very pleased that this government has presented an action plan to combat child poverty. It is an offensive response, an offensive response with a wide range of interventions — targeted ones — to help reduce and not increase child poverty in Norway. This government has, after all, had a somewhat more sobering approach than the SV had when they were going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. It's not as simple as that, and I think SV also recognized during their eight years in government. But now we have put forward an action plan with a wide range of comprehensive measures that may be targeted primarily at those who experience it as most unpleasant, namely the children – the children who, in very many situations, are in a defensive position to cover up to a demanding economic situation. Therefore, it is important that the government strengthens the budgets, so it is important that we reduce taxes, so it is important that we look at sound welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e626	Truls Wickholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e629	What the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen asks about here is, of course, social security. To go back to the previous question: Jensen boasts that she is proud of the initiative she has taken, but here Jensen mixes two things. One thing is to boast that she has taken an initiative to change the pension rules in a future zero settlement; another thing is that the Progress Party’s big group does when they stab the government in the back with their proposal to add to the framework here, make a note of their own. And here we see it again: the party of progress speaks with two tongues. In this room, the Minister tries to give the impression that these two things are the same, she gives the impression that parliamentary leaders are invited to discuss the initiative of the Progress Party, but there are two initiatives – one that undermines the government in the back, and one that takes the initiative in how to resolve future settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e634	I do not feel that the Progress Party speaks with two tongues. Our commitment to the pensioners is as honest and real now as it was last year and year before there. Therefore, we have taken an initiative towards Stortinget to look at how we can strengthen the purchasing power development of pensioners in a situation of many years of moderate settlement, if that would prove to be the case. What we do not understand in this discussion is what the Workers' Party believes about the matter. After all, the Workers' Party backed the pension agreement back in 2011, and I still have the good news to hear what the Workers' Party really thinks about a situation towards the pensioners, if it turns out that we're getting more years of moderate pay settlement. We've taken an honest initiative. I am very happy that we have taken that initiative, because it shows that we are aware of the situation, and want to do something about it. And I sincerely hope that this is a situation that the Labour Party is also aware of, and intends to contribute to doing something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e646	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e649	I have noticed that Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has needed to say very many times that she is so honest, that she is so real, and that the game that the Progress Party has put up in this year's social security settlement is an honest and real commitment. After all, the Minister of Finance is also the next head of government, and has a great responsibility, and the party leader, and we have tried several times now to get an honest and real answer to whether the Minister of Finance – and the Vice-Chairman of the Government – knew of the note that the Group of the Advance Party dealt with half an hour after the social security settlement was in place, which was cleared with her own Minister of Labour. Did the Minister of Finance know about that note? I want an honest and real answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e654	The Minister of Finance is in charge of the Government's policy, and I will repeat what I have now said several times in this Questionnaire: We have taken an initiative towards the Storting in order to prevent the sustainable development of weaker purchasing power for pensioners, given that we are getting several years of moderate wage settlement. I think it is a good initiative, and I hope it is an initiative that brings together broad support in the Grand Duchy. And that's what this is really about -- what kind of regulation we're going to have of the future social security arrangements in a situation of moderate pay settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e659	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e662	My question goes to the finance minister, so it was a short break. I know people and business in the West well. Changeover is something we're good at. We know what this is about. We've done it before. I have noticed that the Minister of Finance is happy to use the word ‘conversion’. Today there is no exception, but it is a little unclear to me what she puts in that word. When we talk about change in the Labour Party, we talk about change that mobilizes the community, where we meet new times and new challenges together. That is why we come with our own packages in the state budget targeting the labour market and for growth across the country. When the Minister of Finance talks about migration, no action is being followed up. It's classic thatcher right-hand side policy not to have faith in community. I guess that also applies here. The message for over 100,000 unemployed people is: Go home and convert yourself. For what does the government actually do? The main bet of the government is tax cuts for those who already have the most. Even the Ministry of Finance must admit that the impact on the economy is absent. In the revised one tries something rather clever. First, take away the permit code. Then reintroduces the old law of permacy and calls it a bet. It's a little bit like taking kids' pocket money, so give them the exact same thing and call it an increase in pocket money. And see another: the Minister of Education was the great loser in the state budget. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left were forced by an increase. Transport is being brought forward by the Minister of Finance, but the level is the same as was agreed by us. So I would like to invite the Minister of Finance to give the word 'conversion' a content. The wealth tax comes at the bottom when business leaders in the West list their challenges in the Western survey. People and businesses I'm talking to in the West would rather have increased apprenticeship grants, technology transfer and innovation. Does the Council agree that there is a need for measures that contribute to conversion rather than for additional tax cuts that have no dynamic effect? Can the Minister of Finance here and now put the tax cuts on waiting until unemployment is on its way down again?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e677	I very much agree with the representative, Tvedt Solberg, that in Norwegian business in general, it is very good to change. It is about being able in challenging times to turn their business and resources around and invest in new and perhaps more promising markets. A very good example of this was the shipyard industry in the 1980s, which many predicted north and down, but who managed to change, turn around, because they were cunning and used tools to get it done. There are many other examples, but then it's about us having to use a long chain of tools to get it done. I think it is a pity if the Workers' Party should now, as it were, get in the way of an ideological fight against tax cuts. It is possible that the Workers' Party listens poorly when they talk to businesses around the country, but I still have the benefit of hearing a single company say that they would like to have increased taxes. All the businesses I'm talking to point to two broad tools. One is competitive framework conditions, including lower taxes. The second is increased investment in infrastructure to reduce the cost of transporting goods around the country and out into the markets. Both parts deliver the government. Then I have also seen that business managers have been asked to rank different tax types according to the urgency of doing something about the different taxes. It's about corporate taxes, it's about property taxes, it's about the general tax burden. However, overall, at least it is beyond doubt that the existence of a competitive tax code is contributing to the survival or loss of Norwegian companies. It is helpful whether they are located in Norway or outside Norway. There is one of the most critical things we can do, if we have as our overall objective the creation of more new jobs in Norway. That is why we are going to continue with an offensive tax policy, because it benefits Norwegian business and thus the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e686	I find that the Minister of Finance is struggling to give the word more content than just tax cuts. One talks about the chain of instruments and about the yard industry, but forgets that there were solid yard packages that stood behind, that is concrete, solid measures. The only measure I now hear the Minister of Finance talk about is tax cuts, tax cuts and tax cuts. There is no response to new measures expected by industry in the West that can change this. That was just one answer. It was more tax cuts. But I'm going to try again and be a little more concrete, because I heard earlier that the finance minister said that she had only heard two demands from the social partners. At the hearing on the revision, several requirements were mentioned, and what was repeatedly highlighted was the introduction of rolling permitting legislation that we had during the financial crisis. It is a solidarity scheme that makes fewer young people lose their jobs and that more companies retain valuable skills. Will the Minister of Finance consider looking at some concrete measures in addition to the tax cuts, such as rolling permitting legislation, so that youth unemployment does not exceed 10 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e696	As I said in my previous answer, not only is the answer to tax reductions, but it is an important answer, along with increased investment in infrastructure, along with research and education, along with labour market measures and a wide range of other instruments that will safeguard us in both the short and long term. I think we have to be able to do several things at once. But what I said in my previous answer was a reference to meetings outside the individual workplace around Norway, where we are talking to business managers in both small and large companies, pointing to the need for competitive framework conditions and for a redeployment of investments in infrastructure such as the two main instruments. Then it is that the social partners have asked for two things in relation to the revised budget of the year. That's what the government has delivered on. One has been the permitting rules. The second has been labour market measures. I can assure the representative Tvedt Solberg that having close and ongoing dialogue with the social partners is absolutely crucial. We have to catch up before it happens so that we can get the right tools at the right time. At the moment, we have a budget well adapted to the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e703	It opens for follow-up questions – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e706	The government likes to talk about conversion. There is a need for this situation, especially in the maritime and oil and energy sectors. But the government also says that there is a long notified conversion, we have to wait and see, there are good engineers switching pastures, and we have to follow the situation carefully. It is a thin and poor answer for those who wonder what the government intends to do. The Minister of Industry says that you should be concerned about what is said in the companies. Then it's good to think that you have two ears and one mouth – maybe you should listen even more than you talk. And then when you just have thin threads to come with, which definitely don't become a durable lifeline, I think it's important to sit down and have a good dialogue with the industry. What is needed to get to the transformation we're going to enter into in the green sector? If you want to go from more oil-related to wind – have boats in that regard – it is important how to do it. [[President clubs]] How is the conversion to take place, and what responsibility should the government take for the conversion? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e713	The number is out. State Council Siv Jensen – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e716	It's absolutely right that the government is talking about conversion. It's simply because the Norwegian economy is in the middle of it. We have to take that seriously, and I hope the Labour Party does too. But we talk equally about the need for security, predictability, long-term competitiveness. It's important keywords for a business that now goes through a transformation that they seem to have would come. What are we going to do? Well, we have to make sure that those who are entrepreneurs, who are business owners, who create jobs on which the Norwegian people depend, invest in new, promising businesses. It's the most important job that the government has. That's why we can do multiple things at once. This is why we are focusing on research and development and on a wide range of targeted activities, because that is what industry is asking for. That is why we are focusing on the development of knowledge. That is why we are placing a broad focus on research. That is why we are focusing on transport, and that is why we are also focusing on a competitive tax system. I still have the good news to hear the Workers' Party do other than blackmail the situation. I'll warn you against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e727	We raise a follow-up question to – Pål Farstad, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e730	The special thing about the growing unemployment that we're seeing now is that there are very many people with a high level of competence, long-term education, who are losing their jobs. It is an additional challenge to re-use this competence in the Norwegian labour market as quickly as possible. For this group, there are no more response areas, but the possibility of using their skills in new areas or using it to start up new businesses, new businesses — in short, contributing to the green shift. Therefore, I and Left believe that there are two things that have to be done. One is to invest heavily in R & D and in development in existing Norwegian businesses. The second is to better facilitate more people to become entrepreneurs, to be motivated to be so and to start for themselves. My question, therefore, is what the Minister of Finance will do to encourage more of those now unemployed to use the skills they have to start new businesses, new businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e737	I very much agree with the representative of Farstad in the description of the reality he is drawing up. This is precisely what we see in many places too, that highly educated workers lose jobs in oil and gas-related industries, but thank goodness very quickly experience being recruited to other parts of Norwegian business, which have long sought that kind of competence, but have not managed to compete for it. This is very good, because it indicates that we have a flexible labour market. We should be very pleased about that – in a transition situation that is challenging for everyone affected by it. So we can't give with that. If we are to succeed in establishing new business structures and new areas of activity for Norwegian businesses in the future, it is essential that some people are willing to dry up – bet their own savings, bet their own skills, bet their own ideas – to get this done. Therefore, good, competitive framework conditions are important. I feel that in the four cooperation parties we talk well about every single occasion we have, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e744	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e756	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Mr Q. Raja to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. Question 4, from the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister for Industry, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e780	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e787	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘Avinor’s recommendation to maintain four airports in Sogn and Fjordane is well received. But warn off the regional airport network of 100-150 million. However, kr annually is a cause for concern about future air services. The councillors of the party, Frank Willy Djuvik, announced on 21 May this year to NRK Sogn and Fjordane bridge between Anda and Lote funded by airport release funds to lower the airport at Sandane. Does the Council of State work to put in place an airport release mechanism and, where appropriate, when does it arrive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e801	Thank you for the question. I think it's nice to hear that one has accepted Avinor's recommendations for all four airports. I wanted one to also look at the possibilities that it brings, instead of constantly finding new things to worry about. We've done far more than the skeptics thought. We've secured a good flight offer. In addition, we have accelerated some road projects in the county. That gives you possibilities. In our work, we are committed to seeing the whole of the transport sector by looking at what's happening on the roads, up to what's happening on rails, airports and ports. In some places, there are many different alternatives — some have a few. But seeing it as a whole is the approach that we have, and that I'm sure the previous government also had when they worked with the National Transport Plan. We are concerned that we should make the best possible use of taxpayers' money and expand the infrastructure in a context so that those living in different regions and communities get the best possible travel every day. That means that if we can make investments in some forms of transport, which means that one reduces the need for others, and comes out positively, then we're willing to make those assessments. There is also something one did during the previous government, when a made investment in Hålogalandsbrua, which is now under construction, precisely because one could save operating costs at the local airport in Narvik. In Avinor’s investigation of the airport structure of the short-haul network, presented on 20 May, the availability of alternative airports is a crucial criterion for assessing how each airport is assessed. As you know, Avinor recommends to maintain all 17 airports covered by the investigation. For several of the airports, the conclusion is that the road network is too poor or too underdeveloped to allow travel time to alternative airports to be acceptable – so it is too sloppy to get to alternative airports, and we will keep the one that is. If the road standard improves, it may be appropriate to look at the airport structure. Several places in Norway, however, are also doing so, with the input and involvement of the business community. When one sees that one can get larger airports, to which others have access, a better offer – not only more departures at today's destinations, but also more destinations. This can make sense for business, for the community in general and for tourism in particular. In addition, it is important that we look at how we operate the airports that are. We've told them to be maintained. At the same time, we have to see if there's any chance of saving costs, so that one makes them more profitable and, therefore, with great probability, ensures them an even longer lifetime. Whether you're going to sit directly and say that you're going to have an aerodrome redemption scheme, where money goes from Avinor to roads, or if you're doing it as part of the total assessment, is one of the things we have to look at when we're working with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e820	I thank you for your answer. When a former state leader, who is expected to have a rather close dialogue with the party and the party's trustworthiness in the government apparatus, goes out as clearly as Frank Willy Djuvik has done in this matter, one may well expect that there is something more behind than just seeing from a random local politician. Therefore, I would like to ask again: is there any plans in the Government's portfolio of an aerodrome termination scheme at present, like what one has now done with holiday termination? I want to boast to the government that he's got it in place, because I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e827	We also believe that the ferry redemption system is important, because it means that a lot of places, where one today spends a lot of money from society, can get a better offer by building a bridge, rather than financing ferries into eternity. Frank Willy Djuvik I know as well as party traps. He has been very offensive and visionary about what he thinks is possible in Sogn and Fjordane, if one got a better infrastructure overall. One should see different transport modes in context instead of a container one way and one and one airport isolated when looking at the use of money. It does not surprise me that he vents the thoughts he has had for a long time, namely, to look at how one gets the most back for the money in total. That doesn't mean he's a government messenger or from the big group, but he's an important contributor to that debate. As mentioned, we look at the whole of what we're doing. What means we want to use to finance the different things remains to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e834	Thank you again for your answer. In Sogn and Fjordne it has now been so that a lift flag when you can keep the services you have had for many years. Previously, a flag and jubilee occurred when you received new services and new offers. Now it has been so that if we keep the Fisheries Directorate in Måløy, cheers on, and if one gets to keep the airports, cheers on, even if it is to be cut significantly when financial means are involved. The Council of State says in its first response that one has advanced many road projects in the state. Yeah, but one has a cut, too. Among others on the E16 over Philly, a cut has quite significant in the budget. Left bridge is not a advanced project. There is a project that has been a doctor for quite some time. The same applies to E39 Bjørset–Skei in Jölster. Which project does a actually advanced project compared to the plans in NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e845	With regard to Sogn and Fjordane, I can mention that when we took over the government, there was a very big discussion about where the new E39 was going. There was no choice of the previous government, despite the fact that one had had had several years on it. Over the course of a decade, we went on tour, we discussed this with local politicians, businesses and residents, and we made a crossroads – what we were not able to do in the previous government. Then the previous government could say that they had also planned to build a new E39, but I find that they were unable to make the decision. E39 Bjørset–Skei was a project to be implemented in the national transport plan and in the Vegvesen action plan a few years in advance. Now we've accelerated it, and we've already granted money. It's true that much of what's happening is thoughts that the red-green government also had, but we're making sure that funding comes faster than what was planned, and so you can start building earlier than what was planned. I think people will lift flags because they get more than they would otherwise get.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e854	The representative Rasmus Hansson would have asked question 3, but he does not seem to be present. Then we go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e868	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e875	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Many young people experience getting sick from mononucleosis, or the kissing disease it is called on their mouths. For the lucky ones, the course of disease is uncomplicated and passes quickly, but some become very ill, and it takes a long time to recover from the disease. For many, this happens in a life phase that forms the basis for further education and work, and long-term absences have major consequences. Does the Norwegian authorities have an overview of how many are severely affected by the disease and does the Council of State consider that sufficient efforts are being made to prevent long-term disease?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e882	Mononucleosis, often referred to as kissing disease, is caused by a virus, the Epstein-Barr virus, which can attack the lymphatic system of the throat, glands, liver and spleen, but rarely other organs such as: the brain. At the age of 20, 90 pst. by the population of antibodies in the blood indicating that they have undergone the disease. The disease may be without symptoms, especially in the younger and older. About 5 pst. of which there may be complications such as inflammation of the liver, spleen and brain. At a rare time, the disease can be fatal. In Norway, the disease is most common at socially active age, i.e. in teenagers and younger adults. In low-income countries, it tends to suffer younger and with less symptoms. Most cases are diagnosed and followed up by the prescriber, as reliable and rapid tests are available. The results of these tests are not monitored and therefore the authorities have no information on the occurrence. Most patients suffer from severe throat inflammation, some also from stomach pain that may make the follow-up of inflammation of the liver and spleen necessary. A few patients need hospitalization. The disease may be long-term, up to three months of reduced general condition is not uncommon. As it affects young people and young adults who are often in education, the consequences can be quite large for some. There is currently no preventive or therapeutic measure that makes it rational or cost-effective for health authorities to introduce disease surveillance and disease burden for mononucleosis. The disease is not monitored in the Infective Disease Notification System as it is common, usually not serious, and because there is no prevention measure, for example. vaccine, or special treatment. The burden of disease can therefore only be established by targeted studies. The important thing is that the sick person is diagnosed quickly, so that a single person can take into account his condition and reduce the risk of infecting others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e899	I thank you for your answer. The reason why I take this up in Stortinget is that I feel that this disease is getting quite little attention even if, as the Council of State said, it affects in particular one age group — young people and young adults. There is no treatment as such for the disease, as the council says. But what's very important is that you take care of the disease when you first get sick. Once you have been diagnosed, it is extremely important to take it easy as quickly as possible. It is very important to rest a lot, and it is very important not to drink alcohol. In addition, some claim that healthy diets are important. But first of all, I'm thinking about whether it's possible to do something on the information page -- that all Norwegian schoolchildren should be aware that it can hit them. Is there something you can do to inform more, so you get to test it in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e908	As the representative understands, this is a serious situation for the small part of those who get this disease that gets serious complications, and it happens at a time when a lot of studies and other things are going on and it's likely that this goes beyond the progress of it, and can therefore have consequences. It is also important that a seeker sees a doctor when he has this disease, receives the test and takes into account the information that a sheep has. I think the most effective way to do information work on this is through the school health service, which I am also concerned about strengthening. There we reach all the school kids with health care and with information. Then it would have been relevant for more surveillance of the disease if we had preventive measures or vaccination options, but unfortunately there is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e917	I agree with the Council of State that monitoring does not necessarily have any meaning when there are no measures that can be taken, for example. vaccination. But I think that's the potential for school health, from high school and high school -- that everyone, both parents and young people, is informed that this disease is most likely to hit at least two or three pieces in a class hard, so hard that if you don't take it easy, it can have serious consequences. It's a well-known thing -- it's possible the government can elaborate on this -- that in some young adults who have ME, i.e. chronic fatigue syndrome and that kind of suffering, it's started with kissing because you haven't taken it easy, and because you haven't done what you should do to deal with the disease. Does the Council have any comments on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e924	This is a disease like – as I said – 90 pst. 20-year-olds have had, and that's about 5 pst. of which again have symptoms which make it more or less serious. So it's quite common, and it's important that they seek help, but this is a disease that most people have, but without serious symptoms. I'm aware that several people who have ME have a clear view that it has come after this disease. Support is now also provided for research into ME treatment, which also has a link to having an infection, which is part of the focus on research on the disease that this government has suffered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e931	Then the president records that Rasmus Hansson has arrived, and we go back to question 3, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister of Culture, who is answered by the Minister of Health and Care on behalf of the Minister of Culture, who has left. The President makes it clear that we need to deal with the timescales for the questions. Here you go, Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e940	Thanks for waiting. I was in Syria negotiations, and it's also important. The question to the Minister for Culture is: 'The Member States have contributed 40 pst. the financing of voluntary centres. Now 400 voluntary agencies warn the government against transferring responsibility for funding to the municipalities. In Report. [[2014-2015]] Article 14 states that ‘the voluntary centres play an important role in the interface between civil and public activities’. Poor local economy can lead to the ageing of volunteer centres. How will the government ensure that the central role of volunteer centres is not weakened in poor-economy municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e949	On behalf of the Minister of Culture, I will answer that the government wants to shift power and authority closer to the inhabitants. We want stronger communities and municipalities with more tasks that can provide citizens with better services. Voluntary centres are local meeting places connecting people and organisations to create a good voluntary environment, good activities and cooperation with the public in the local environment. Volunteer centres shall be locally anchored and operated on the basis of local conditions and needs. Local authorities know the local environment, opportunities and challenges best, and therefore it is also natural to shift responsibility for granting grants to the volunteer centres from the state to the municipalities. The scheme of State grants to volunteer centres started as a pilot scheme with 90 centres in 1991. In 2015, the appropriations for the volunteering centres amounted to 125.4 million. kr. The Ministry allocates operating grants to around 400 volunteer centres divided into 330 municipalities. It is a prerequisite for State grants that municipalities have issued an opinion on the establishment of the central bank and that local funding is available for the operation of the central bank. When the state grant to the volunteer centres is transferred to the municipalities, power and authority are moved closer to the inhabitants. Voluntary centres will be able to further develop as part of a comprehensive local voluntary policy. This could contribute to increasing the importance and relevance of volunteer centres in promoting volunteering in areas such as culture and leisure, integration, public health, care services and other areas, in line with local traditions and the need for provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e958	I thank you for your answer. The Greens fully agree, of course, that local democracy is an important priority, but we are therefore concerned about the removal of instruments that provide predictable arrangements for local involvement. The volunteers are a cornerstone of what the government itself emphasizes as visions of local democracy. They deal with community tasks that do not give direct expenditure to municipalities in the short term and that keep costs down in the long term. It is obvious – and it must also be for the government – that volunteering becomes a balancing item in a municipality of Norway that now has a growing debt burden and reduced revenues, and the question is: is it not a point to secure basic funding for local involvement, precisely on the basis of the weight of government spending on local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e967	Therefore, the government also strengthens the finances of municipalities – most recently in the context of the revised national budget. It's like the municipalities are the closest to their communities. Using earmarked state grant schemes is not something that we have principled counter-representations against, but it is often wise to do so in a build-up phase where a person wants to expand an offer. However, once the offer is established, as it is here, with more than 400 volunteer centres, it is advisable to transfer responsibility to municipalities – to give municipalities greater flexibility to adapt the offer according to local needs, but also as an important tool to reduce bureaucracy. There is no need for us to have bureaucrats in the Ministry of Culture dealing with applications from 400 municipalities within a well-established offer, which there is a broad political agreement to be there. And the municipalities get money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e974	Thank you for that follow-up response. Now it is the case that the government has promised better framework conditions for volunteering, and the Health Declaration mentions volunteering no less than 39 times. And the government’s voluntary declaration promises that ‘the interaction with the voluntary sector will be marked by predictability, transparency, trust and availability’. So 400 volunteer centres have warned about this measure. At the same time, we know that neither Freewill Norway nor the owners of the volunteer centres have been asked by the government about the consequences they think will come from the reform that the government believes will have such a good effect on volunteering. The question then becomes whether the Council of State considers that the competence and experience of the volunteer itself is not relevant in this discussion? And the question is also, has the government actually checked what are the likely consequences of this measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e985	The task report is now under discussion in Stortingen, so the Stortinge determines this question. A great many of the different sectors of society that are municipal responsibilities call for earmarked state resources. If, as national politicians, we should have listened to that Council every time, we could in reality have abolished municipal autonomy. I think it's pretty obvious to most people that there's something suitable for the municipalities to handle locally, so it's just how they set up the organization of their volunteer centres, all of which are now well established 400 places in the country. I think the wit is equally distributed in the country. We're no wiser in Stortinget than those who sit in local government, and I can never imagine that someone will deprioritise this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e994	Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1001	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘There has recently been a lot of attention on health damage from local air pollution to residents in Oslo and other metropolitan areas where the limit values for, in particular, nitrogen dioxide, NO2 and fine particulate matter, PM, are regularly broken. In this context, it is also important to look at the health effects for drivers who are in long queues every day. Few studies and little research are available both at national and international level. Will the Council consider launching studies on health effects related to driving for drivers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1013	The clear link between air pollution and health has been established in countless studies. We also know that air pollution is exacerbating existing lung disease. We also know that long-term exposure to particulate matter can increase the incidence of carbon. That asthma can worsen when exposed to air pollution is also confirmed. However, there is no clear evidence that exposure to long-term air pollution leads to an increased incidence of asthma. We have also gained better knowledge of the relationship between air pollution and increased mortality. It is true, as the representative of Bohemia points out, that there are few studies on the health impact of air pollution on drivers in automotive queues in particular. However, there are many studies that deal with the time when drivers are using queues, the exposure they are exposed to, and the impact of driving patterns on air pollution. The time spent in the car accounts for a significant proportion of how much air pollution we are exposed to in total. This level of exposure increases when the queue is en route and when the queue is moving at uneven speeds, compared to free traffic flows. The more queue it is, the longer time you spend in the car. There is reason to believe that cycling can increase the risk of health effects from fine particulate matter and oxides of nitrogen. Negative health effects can be further enhanced by generally negative health status. In comparison, it is assumed that the net health benefit of cycling is positive in any case, because the health effect of physical activity exceeds the harmful effect of air pollution. Such an advantage does not have the drivers. Both internationally and in Norway, we have good research environments in air pollution and health. Health effects related to driving for motorists are part of this research. When it comes to initiating Norwegian studies on health effects related to driving, relevant environments will be able to apply for research funds in the usual way. This is the best guarantee of good research.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1030	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a very important public health issue. There is a large proportion of the population who drive cars or are passengers, and who sit quite a lot in queues, especially when living in larger urban areas. I asked the Swedish Research Department if they could give me an overview of what is available from studies, and they pointed to the last review of this in Norway. It was made by Ronny Kleboe at the Transport Economic Institute in 1996, where he pointed to the danger of accumulation in tunnels under particularly unfavourable topographical conditions, particularly towards cities. It was also highlighted by the investigation section that Belgian researchers had gotten 62 people to drive a car with appliances to measure the level inside the cars. It turned out that the values were up to five times higher than those recorded in residential areas exposed to pollution. So I'm going to ask the Council of State if he could imagine taking a little more active initiative than he suggested. The last review was in 1996.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1037	As I said in my answer, we have a lot of studies, and when one puts them together, they give answers to the question that Bohemian is concerned about. We have prominent research environments for this in Norway, and if there are some research communities in Norway that want to have specific studies related to this, the best way to do it is to seek approval of their studies with the means allocated to this. That is what ensures the best quality of the studies. This is an effect that we are aware of, and therefore it is important that we focus on measures to reduce particulate matter, because we know about the health damage of it. We are implementing measures in several areas, both directly with measures against particulate matter and with measures to reduce the number of cows, through this effort of this government on transport, and the efforts of this government to facilitate the use of bicycles and public transport. So it's healthy to bike, so if you feel sad and lonely in the queue, a hive can get on the bike.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1044	I thank you for the additional reply as well. As indicated in a report referred to by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in this respect, the World Health Organisation (WHO) report shows, in particular, that short-term exposure to constructed pollution, particularly for carbonised particulate matter and also for NO2, as we mentioned, can lead to health damage, especially for those affected by respiratory diseases who have cardiovascular diseases. And as I mentioned in an interpellation before Christmas, the State Road Administration has done a study that shows that the rate of death for people with these diseases increases significantly after days of high levels of pollution. I would like to ask the Council of State if he does not see it as important to get more active information to drivers about the damage that may come from driving queues, so that they can make more qualified choices in choosing public transport and other means of delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1056	I think we very much agree on the health damage of this and the importance of getting something done about it. I believe that the main means of actually implementing measures to reduce the level of particulate matter and to strengthen alternative offers, both to reduce driving queues and to strengthen the supply of public transport and to facilitate cycling activity. So it might well be that we also need to look at measures to get information about this. This is an area of responsibility that is also under the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Transport, but the Ministry of Health is very clear on our concern about the health damage caused by particulate matter. It's an engagement that we have in Norway with the other departments, but which we have also lifted internationally, through the World Health Organisation, where Norway, not least, has been a driving force to get binding decisions in this area internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1067	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: «'New start to working life' has been run for 13 years by Varodd in Kristiansand. Never before have there been as many prints for jobs from there as in 2014. 66 pst. got a follow-up to the job they kept over time. Participants are mainly prisoners to be resettled. Employees are now afraid that the measure will be deleted through the tendering procedure if it is not exempted. Will the Council of State show action and ensure that this action can continue, and that it is not deleted in a tendering round, so that more people come to work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1076	Let me first thank the representative Henriksen for the question. The government made important changes to labour market policy last year in the field of action when we combined two clarification and two follow-up measures to become one, which we then put out to tender. I understand that the question from the representative Henriksen is whether I am willing to make exceptions to the provisions concerning the offer in Kristiansand. I think it's going to be very unfair, very wrong, if a government council and a department are going to start making exceptions to the rules that have been introduced for individual municipalities. I think that's very unfortunate and a very strange way to tackle the problem, especially given that there are 67,000 action sites to be managed by 456 different Nav offices. So I think, how are we going to make sure that the good offers get to live on? How are we to ensure that where you have good results, you still have good results, so that people who need help get back to work get the help they need? I believe that the grips the government has done by merging these measures are a strength. We're not talking about erasing, we're talking about letting more actors go, so more people can get better help. As for the offer of Varodd in Kristiansand, they provide good services, of good quality. I would also like to remind you that in the previous arrangements it was that one of the follow-up measures was on offer, and one of the clarifications offered was on offer. Attractive assistance won most of the tenders, which shows that where you have good services, you win. I feel sure that the offer at Varodd, the good effort made at Varodd, will also survive the new response system and will receive the tasks you want as long as the quality is as good as it is, and as long as the results are at the level they are at today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1089	Thanks for the answer. There has been a trend towards a debate on what might be called the tongue of the Progress Party – at least more tongues have been spoken in the Chamber earlier today. It looks as if the State Councils of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are in good tradition. In 2010, Robert Eriksson said: ‘We do not want tenders in return, because I believe this leads to a worse and narrower offer.’ My question is not about excluding Kristiansand, my question is about offering good offers to a vulnerable group – a very vulnerable group. Will the Council of State take action to address the concerns of employees more effectively, so that they can feel confident that their offers will not be eliminated by a postponement of tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1099	First of all, it's Nav who buys services and chooses which services to buy. They naturally buy enough of the best suppliers to deliver to the community mission. As long as Varodd delivers, and is best to deliver, I see it as quite obvious that Nav will still choose their offer, because you are busy helping as much back to work as possible. It's not about erasing. I record that the critics who have opposed the outsourcing of these services – which is not new, because we have had tenders in the past – say that it is terrible that this should be deleted. There's nothing that suggests that this is being deleted as long as the services are good enough. What we see is that there are more actors coming in, more good solutions are being created, and more people are being helped. I think that's good, and that's what's important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1104	The answer to the Council of State is quite obvious, but I do not think it is a particular guarantee. Cooperation between Nav and prisons is to be strengthened, according to the Ministry of Justice’s budget — precisely because prisoners have extensive problems requiring a broad range of measures, long-term rehabilitation and good predictability of the services to be provided. The commercialization of such a problem despite that 90 pst. We in the Workers' Party believe that a poor solution was a bad one. With regard to prison and Nav bets, I wonder if the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs can tell you what efforts he has put into the budget for this target group for 2015. The Minister of Justice's term leads to cuts in positions, including in prisons. How many employees are leading to an increase in the budget of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and how much is that in dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1113	I cannot quantify the number of posts on a tight arm. In that case, I must come back to that. Of course, I don't have that number in my head. We give a grant to Nav, so Nav, based on the letter of assignment and the control signals they get, can use the funds in line with that. The prison project is something other than action sites. I myself have been around and visited this. It's about early work and starting a career path for criminals so that they can have a good life afterwards and a life where they can participate in the world of work. I was, among other things, in Trondheim prison and looked at the offer there. That was excellent. It's a bet that I want from my side – that we're going to get a good prison project. I want to follow up on my side in a good and correct way. Finally, I would like to say that I have not been using any tongues at all. But I believe that every state council, every politician and every person must base their decisions on what works best. Who is most important – are the people who need the services or those who provide the services?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1122	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-27.ana.ud1956e1135	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? That hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
