ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e26	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen, has taken a seat. The request for the extension of the authorised permit of the representative Elin Rodum Agdestein is submitted to the Right-Collection Group until 30 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Erik Føan, still meets during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e49	The representative, Mr Micasen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e52	I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative from the big business representatives Tove Karoline Knutsen, Freddy de Ruiter, Karianne Tung and myself on extended HPV vaccination.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e57	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e69	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Elisabeth Aspaker and Torbjørn Røe Isaacen will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e76	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The government has initiated the sale of Norway. A number of Norwegian state-owned companies are to be sold out. Foreign companies, investors and funds are in line to buy lucrative shares, the government is considering privatising the forest, and the agricultural concession law is to be abolished, which will open up to non-resident owners there as well. In the fisheries sector, more and more resources are concentrated on fewer and fewer hands. The Government Platform states that fishermen are to be allocated everlasting quotas. During the last year, the Ministry has adopted several regulations that provide for more structuring. The government has now created considerable uncertainty about the legislation ensuring national ownership of fisheries resources. The government gives the impression that they have a considerable urgency and that they do not have time to assess the consequences, which has become a repeat for the government. The sale of the property of the community before knowledge and clarifications resist, and in some areas also retreat. The Minister for Fisheries has notified the Stortinget as a follow-up to the position of the Tveterås Committee. What political direction does the Minister for Fisheries now see that she wants to put forward further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e87	Fisheries and aquaculture are one of Norway’s most important industries. At a time when we see the importance of oil being returned, it is all the more important that we have a fishery and aquaculture industry that is equipped to tackle the global competition of which this industry is part. That means that we have to work systematically to improve the framework conditions here at home that enable the industry to compete. We export 95 pst. of all that is taken up by the sea, whether from mermaids or wild caught fish. That is why it is so important for the government to implement what we think is important in this regard. And it must not be surprising to the representative Botten that, although we have now received a NOU report that goes into many key areas of the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry, we cannot park the policy for perhaps a year and a half until those changes can materialize in a way, because the NOO notification will only come at the end of this year. We went to the elections on some improvements to the framework conditions, that was part of the election campaign, that was part of our program, and we're doing it. However, I believe that with regard to the consultation we are now having, which is to go all the way out of April – this is a major and important matter – we will take time for the thorough debate, but we cannot put the policy at risk, even if the opposition disagrees with some of the proposals that are now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e94	The government showed yesterday that there is no shame in turning around. We saw this about the sale in the Kongsberg Group and the sale of the Flytrain, where the Christian People's Party and the Left have put on the brake. People don't want to sell Norway, they don't want to sell natural resources. But now there's no doubt about what the government wants about ownership, it wants to sell, and the question we can ask is how much responsibility the Christian People's Party and the Left must take to repair the different issues. The government has announced the removal of a number of laws, including: the law of participants. It has been written by the Minister of Industry in a press release in the New Year on behalf of the Minister of Industry and the Minister for Fisheries. The Minister for Fisheries has said several times that she wants to turn all the stones in the fisheries policy and has raised considerable doubts about the future of the law on participants. Will the Minister for Fisheries continue to turn back on the foundations of Norwegian fisheries policy, or is it perhaps time for her to turn around herself?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e101	I'm very happy to get that question. We have said that we need to simplify, renew and improve, and if you read that list to my colleague in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, the law of participants and the law of fishing is under the category of laws that should be modernised. Nor should it be surprising, because if you go to the government platform, we have said that these are laws where there is actually a basis for making simplifications and adjustments. So that's the intention. Then I just want to say "sale of": it was the previous government that provided for a sales authorisation on Cermaq. The price was not good enough when Trond Giske wanted to sell, but now the company is sold. It was the previous government that signed out EMUS and sold the feed company EMUS. So I think it's a little elephant in a glass house when you stand here and almost claim that this is a policy that this government is alone about. In fact, the Workers' Party has initiated several of these sales that have now been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e108	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e111	I record that neither this time will the Minister for Fisheries respond to what she wants with the Act of Participation – she just says it should be changed. I also register that she easily takes on the anchoring in Stortinget. Both of them think I'm serious. The Participation Act contains both nationality requirements and activity requirements. The activity requirement means that, as a general rule, only active fishermen can own fishing vessels and obtain fishing quotas. Now we see that the Tveterås committee has challenged the activity requirement by proposing industrial quotas. The fishermen have to live along the coast. They cannot be bought up by non-residents, but the industrial companies do. As a result, fish quotas are likely to fall on foreign hands in practice. This shows that when you start rocking at the core wall of the Norwegian fisheries policy, it is at risk that the entire construction works will collapse. Has the Minister for Fisheries reflected that when she wants to give market forces more control over our common fishing resources, could it be that we are at risk of reducing national sovereignty over the resources we are going to live on when the oil comes to an end?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e118	I thank Helga Pedersen for this question, because it actually gives me the opportunity to clarify the following: if it turns out that the changes in the participant law proposed by the NOO Committee lead to the need to state the nationality requirement, it is completely inappropriate to make those changes. I announced in a speech on the Seafood Days on Hell last week that we have now started a work to review the legal process around the very assumptions that the NOU Committee has set up, and that will also respond in a way to what the Workers' Party has been told at the Swedish Research Department of Storting. It is clear that Norwegian fishing resources are to be owned by Norwegians, which is in the law today. I remember: there is access to a certain ownership on the industrial side with non-residents, and there are some connections today between industry and fleet. However, Norwegian fishing resources should not be under Norwegian control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e127	Knut Espeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e130	As we have heard, the Tveterås Committee has made a number of proposals for the liberalisation of existing legislation to strengthen industry profitability. Hardly did it violate the law on participants. Given that the law intends to ensure that Norwegian resources benefit Norwegian coastal communities, I, like the Labour Party representative, note that there is a concern about whether the fisheries policy is now being proposed to be released from the rural policy. How will the Council of State ensure that the social part of the concept of sustainability, namely the consideration of districts and the benefit of resources to Norwegian coastal communities, is also safeguarded?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e136	The NOU committee's investigation has been conducted at as much as four months' hearing. I would like a good and thorough debate on all the proposals put forward by the Tveterås Committee. But I want to say that over a long time – and there is a selection of 100 percent agree – there has been a profitability challenge in this industry in Norway, so continuing as today is probably the biggest threat to maintaining this type of job. I am now meeting that even those who disagree with things are putting alternative suggestions on the table. So, when the hearing is closed by the end of April, we are starting to work on designing the government's proposals for what will be the future fisheries policy. I want to underline, and I've said it before: I want the widest possible majority behind the changes we're going to make, because the industry is so important in so many places, and big, heavy and important investments are being made. Then it is important that we manage to bring together the largest possible majority of the Grand Duchy behind the policy to be followed in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e141	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e144	Coastal turmoil is linked to both the simplifications outlined by the Council of State in relation to the Act of Participation, in the light of the report of the Committee of Tveterås and the modernisation of the Fisheries Sale Act. It is not clear how this simplification is to be done, so my question is: can the Council of State clarify what kind of simplification she sees and will the Council of State take seriously the concerns of coastal communities when she presents her assessments for the new fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e149	I am very serious about the turmoil that is taking place, and I am listening intensively to the debate that is going out there now. But I think it's important again to stress that just going on like today and stabbing your head in the sand and pretending that the problems aren't there, is actually the biggest threat to what could be and be the big and important industry along the coast. I have not, as the representative claims, outlined any simplification. What is now being consulted is the selection proposal, based on a mandate given by the previous government. I have not sat in the sample, and I have not taken a decision on a single proposal, but I have said that we will now do the job to prepare the reason for doing a good and thorough job even after the hearing is over. However, the nationality requirement must not be questioned: the fish should be owned and controlled by Norwegian society in the future as well. I see and hear the alarm, but I also ask that you listen to what I actually say – not to what others claim that I mean in this case, because I do not mean anything in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e158	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e161	At the same time as the Minister says that these are only suggestions from a selection, a government has already started a work where one has looked at the legal framework around national ownership of this. So it's not an entirely independent job, to say it like that. Along the whole coast there is rebellion against this work that is now taking place in the government in connection with the Tveterås selection. Tveterås has himself stated that this could seriously affect coastal communities. That's what he said. It is, of course, impossible to ask whether the Council of State will be free of coastal communities, for one will probably only get elusive answers to it. But when we talk about fish and fish resources, is there one thing that is the big question: Should the fish be able to move freely into the open market? This is where the government is very unclear. My simple question, which is perhaps the decisive question in this context, is: does the Minister mean that fishing quotas should be eternal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e170	The fish belongs to the Norwegian community. It has over time been possible to move allowances and collect them on fewer boats. It has been part of the development of efficiency and productivity in the Norwegian fishing industry. It is a success that we have an industry that is so attractive that it is still being recruited to the industry. Without the fact that we had a fleet link that was profitable and attractive to operate in, the fishing resources would have been worthless, because we hadn't got them out of the sea. There can be no doubt that Norwegian ownership will be guaranteed. We're not going to present a single bill in Stortinget that challenges it – and that's exactly why we're doing the legal job now to clarify what kind of room of action we have. So the Storting, when we present the big news of the New Year, will see what the government is actually going to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e177	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e180	My question goes to the Council of State Sanner. Yesterday we marked both in Norway and many other places, not least in Auschwitz, International Holocaust Day. I think it has made a big impression on many – both the speeches that were given, and the markings that we have witnessed. In my childhood, there was a book at school that made a special impression. It was the book «It also concerns you» by Herman Sachnowitz, who was one of the eight who came back from Auschwitz after being sent from Norway. In Auschwitz yesterday, one of the speakers, Roman Kent, said that he wanted it to be an 11th commandment, and that it should sound like this: you shouldn't be looking at. It also fits well with Sachnowitz’s message in its time. Antisemitism did not come with Holocaust and has not ended with it. It has a long history in our own country as well. What is alarming is that it lives to the degrees today. The HL centre study shows that a total of 12 pst. Norway’s population has ‘expressed prejudices’ — that is, the term used — against Jews. And one out of five agrees with the following statement: "The Jews of the world work in secret to promote Jewish interests." It's a very high number, and there are pronounced anti-Semitic prejudices that come out here. My question is, how will the government follow up what is being said, in action?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e191	I want to start by thanking the representative Syversen for a very good question, but also a frighteningly topical question. By January, French Jews were hit hard during the terrorist action in Paris when a Jewish business was one of the objectives of the terrorist action. It's true, as the representative Syversen says, that anti-Semitic attitudes are also a challenge here at home. I think one of the first things we have to do is to recognise that this is a problem, recognize that even in Norway, anti-Semitic attitudes are a challenge that needs to be addressed. The other important thing is that we are clear that the Jews should not stand alone, that we are clear that discrimination, hateful expressions, are not the minority's responsibility to take a settlement – just as it is not the responsibility of the Jews to make a settlement with anti-Semitism. It's our responsibility. It's your responsibility. It's my responsibility. It is the responsibility of the big community to settle with that kind of attitude. The representative Syversen and I, together with the Left, also had a good meeting with Ervin Kohn from the Mosaic Religious Society just a few weeks ago, where we just expressed support for Norwegian Jews, and where we also discussed measures. I think that one of the most important things is building up knowledge and building down prejudices. We are now discussing, in cooperation with the Mosaic Religious Society, how we can contribute to the dissemination of knowledge, for knowledge is our foremost weapon in the fight against prejudices and degrading attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e198	I thank you for the answer, for which I am very pleased. We, on the part of the Christian People's Party, have proposed an action plan against anti-semitism in this Chamber. The size has largely agreed that there has been a need for action, but did not adhere to the plan itself. I will leave it in itself, because through budgetary cooperation we have put in place some of the measures that are important, not least work against the school and to ensure that we preserve the Jewish heritage in Norway, among others. through the Jewish Museums. In the HL study that I referred to, which really deserves much more attention than it has received, because it is simply frightening in its conclusions, it is recommended something that I want to challenge the government, among other things. to strengthen school knowledge, to obtain a new study to support actual development and to record, for example: hate crime motivated by antisemitism. My question is: how will the government follow the recommendations contained in that report, which we all think is serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e210	We are committed to following up on concrete measures, and I will give the Christian People's Party credit for having addressed this issue, not only in situations where this is a topical issue and is high on the political agenda, the Christian People's Party has had a long and strong commitment. Therefore, some necessary measures were also put in place in the 2015 budget agreement. I agree that knowledge building in school is an important measure, but it cannot stop there. In addition, awareness-raising measures are important – also targeting us adults. We must be very alert to the fact that hateful statements, discrimination and bullying can reach our minorities, can reach all people, at any time, anywhere, day by night. With the new technology, there's no clearance. Then it is important that we work with attitudes, and I agree with the representative Syversen that we also have to follow this over time to see how it develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e217	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Anders Tyvand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e220	I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Minister of Knowledge: Anti-Semitism is still living in our society, even in school. We've heard of students who don't dare to be open about their Jewish identity, and we know that 'Jew' is a common shell word in many schoolyards. At the same time, perhaps the knowledge of the Holocaust among the students is not good enough. State Council Sanner said in his reply that it is important to build up knowledge and build down prejudices. In the state budget, some money has been put into action against anti-semitism in schools, and some of these funds have, among other things, been spent. has been used for a 1-year project, a collaboration with the Mosaic Religious Society to carry out information and awareness-raising work at school. In order for this to produce results, I think it is important that there be continuity in such projects. My question to the Council of State is whether the government is interested in continuing support for this work, and what the Minister of Knowledge otherwise thinks can be done to combat anti-semitism in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e227	Thank you very much for your question. I would first like to say that antisemitism in school is – as the representative is quite right – well documented and based on the same characteristics as antisemitism in general. There is a reason why we are talking about both «racism» and «antisemitism»: it is not about current events; it is not about what Israel as a state is doing; it is about prejudices based on centuries of stereotypes, summed up in the idea of «the eternal Jew». You even see it in the social debate, where some of our so-called leading intellectuals also promote that kind of distortional image. So we do a lot in school, but we can do more. It is important to gain knowledge of both Holocaust and anti-Semitism – in the history and RLE disciplines. For several years we have had an action called Dembra, which is a programme to combat both racism and antisemitism in school. The Wergeland Centre works actively with follow-up, and as I said, we also have additional funds for information measures this year. Unfortunately, if they continue, I must return to the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e234	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e237	My follow-up question goes to Sanner. I just want to say that there is a very important question that the Christian People's Party is raising here. We see that it is the municipalities that are in some way facing some of the main challenge here, considering how to now go into and fight the radicalisation environment, to call it that, and I could imagine asking the Council of State if he now has any good thoughts about how we can help the municipalities in the important fight they have to do against radicalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e244	I agree that there are many who have a responsibility here. What is the advantage of the municipalities is that the municipalities are close to the inhabitants, the municipalities are responsible for kindergartens, schools and non-governmental organisations. We have also made this clear in the Action Plan for Radicalisation, which was presented on 10 June last year, that it is important for municipalities to create platforms for good dialogue with different environments. This has also been addressed and challenged by the Prime Minister. And we now see that there are many municipalities that invite you to the very kind of dialogue meetings, so that you get knowledge of each other, and that the municipalities thus get a platform to discuss this further. I am in contact with the KS and discuss this, and we also discuss how they can help the municipalities in the work they are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e249	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e252	It's scary that 70 years after Holocaust there are still so hard fronts and so much hatred for a crowd as we see. As the Council pointed out, we saw what happened in France not long ago. And today we can read about Jewish hatred in Sweden, in Malmö, where people repeatedly drew the star on the door of a resident. It is not possible for the police to find out who did it. It's quite challenging for us to want to contribute to society being good for everyone, to experience that this is still happening. So my question to the Council of State is, how will the Council of State define the individual's responsibilities in the face of anti-semitism and other forms of discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e259	We live in an open and liberal society where freedom of expression is a fundamental right, and I am pleased that the vast majority in Norway joins. At the same time, it is also important in an open and liberal society that we stand up for the values we believe in, and not least respect for individuals is a crucial value in our society. Respect for the individual – regardless of belief, regardless of background – is crucial. So one of the most important things, I think, is that we don't appeal to indifference, but we also use our freedom of expression to protest. It is obvious, at least to me, that we, as political leaders, have a considerable responsibility to stand up for important values, and that we also go ahead in our everyday lives and show that respect for individuals is crucial to the good community we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e266	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e270	Antisemitism has a long and ugly history in Europe, and Holocaust must never be forgotten. With regard to the emerging anti-semitism that is now emerging in Europe, it is important to combat it with action plans. The school is especially important. But with the threat that is actually there, it is important that Jews know the security of the exercise of their faith. In the case of schemes around e.g.: the synagogue here in Oslo, there have been some temporary security measures for many years. More permanent solutions and plans have been developed. Then my question becomes: will the Council of State also contribute to its action plan to provide more permanent solutions that look better, but which also have the same function as the temporary ones? And he can also contribute to other aspects of exercise, for example. at the Jewish Museum, to see if you can get an extension of your premises?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e275	I agree with what is at the root of this question, namely that Jews should also be able to feel security in everyday life and when visiting the synagogue. It is not natural to engage in the dialogue that is around security measures, but I can confirm that there is a problem that we have dialogue about and that we are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e280	Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e283	The report «Antisemitism in Norway? The Norwegian population’s attitudes to Jews and other minorities’ were presented in the spring of 2012 and show alarmingly high levels of antisemitism. Combating this is a responsibility that can never be defined – it has to be worked in many fields. The red-green government coordinated this work, among others. through the Action Plan to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination, while the then Minister of Knowledge, Kristin Halvorsen, launched various measures to combat antisemitism in school. My question to the Council of State is: What concrete action does the government now take to ensure that anti-Semitism work is not sectoralised and that all relevant departments are held responsible and contribute to this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e290	One of the most important things is that the Prime Minister has a strong commitment to this matter, and that she has also taken the initiative for meetings where this has been a topic. Among other things, we had: one before Christmas, where hat talk was on the agenda, and where different representatives of our minorities, among others. were invited. I think that kind of meetings and arenas are important. It is vital that we also get acquainted with the individual stories and learn how racism and antisemitism affect both groups and individuals. So this is a topic that is high on the government's agenda, and the different departments are also working on concrete measures. As I have explained, we are now following up on what came into the 2015 budget, in our dialogue with the Mosaic Religious Society. Knowledge is then one of the important instruments — how we can build up knowledge and build down prejudices, among others. at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e295	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e298	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. It is approaching the deadline for universities and colleges to notify the Ministry of Knowledge of – and, in the case of whom – they wish to merge. We know that there are more people waiting anxiously for what the NTNU government is doing, among other things. Today, and also ruled in Sogn and Fjordane. There are several institutions that have concluded that they will be best served to continue on their own. After he first invited all the institutions to consider what they are best served with, and possibly find a partner to merge with, we can read in several press releases that the Minister of Knowledge warns that he is not a stranger to use coercion, and merge colleges that do not agree with him and the government: ‘I am not unwilling to decide on structural changes if necessary.’ [[...]] The fact that the Council of State visited the Højskulen in Sogn and Fjordane at the latest yesterday, before they were supposed to have their board meeting today, gives the impression that the college there was also going to talk in place. When the centralisation reform was launched last year, we criticised the Council of State for starting work behind. It's quite eye-catching, we think, that the government is starting a large-scale, far-reaching reform without first defining what it is a will, and what its purpose is. Since the Council of State has not said anything about what he means by quality – other than that at least there is something very big, I understand – I therefore ask: can the Council of State guarantee that he will respect each institution's own assessments, or will the government force through mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e316	I – the Council of State – can guarantee that I will take my job as Council of State for the most part. The coercive theme came up with a direct question from a journalist. I think it would be strange if both the government and, in and on its own, the Storting – although this is basically the government's decisions – were to exclude the use of the government's government's authority when a process is initiated. That being said, of course, there is no point in coercing institutions together. If we wanted to, we would have sat down a year and a half ago and drawn a new map – and then completed it after a month. We have instead chosen to have a large, open process. We've asked all the institutions. Part of it was also that I was at a meeting in Sogn and Fjordane yesterday, in Sogndal – not a closed meeting, but an open meeting with approx. 150 people present – to discuss exactly the future of the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, in a changing landscape. It's not that this discussion is new. In 2008, the report of the Stjernø Committee came, and both before and after it, there have been repeated peer reviews and reports. The previous government also stated several times that one of our problems if we're going to get higher quality is that we have too small and too fragmented professional environments. That means that in many places we get too bad research and too little research. And that means that many institutions are unable, we believe, to cope with the major challenges we face, both in terms of getting enough people into our welfare professions – the nursing profession, the teaching profession – and in tackling major societal challenges, as the green shifted. We don't start with a map. We start with quality as a leading star, and we have an open process. That process should also be part of the Storting, through a big message coming to spring. The quality criteria will also be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e327	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. So we can see that this reform will also force us: we will open up an open process, and if you do what we mean, that is right, if we don't force you together. We are concerned about the basis for this reform and that it will weaken both the social missions of universities and higher education institutions. It seems that the government is in the process of falling into its own ambitions against the delivery of the staging message. It is desirable that all institutions pursue international research funding and carry out excellent research at the end of the day. It seems that it is more important than ensuring that the whole country has qualified kindergarten teachers, teachers, nurses and engineers, thus ensuring the needs of regional employment and business. I would like to ask: does the Council of State believe that the quality of nurse training and access to nurses in the country will be higher if the Gjøvik University is merged with NTNU in Trondheim, and will the quality of Sogndal improve if management is moved to Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e336	A prerequisite for this reform – we have said it all the way – is that we should maintain, secure and strengthen not only a decentralised and strong regional education provision, but also cooperation with business and working life. My answer to the question is: Yes, there is good reason to believe that part of our weakest professional environments, for example. In the field of nurse training, they can become stronger by joining a larger institution — decentralised study services, of course, but which form part of a stronger institution. The starting point here is that the analysis has been ready and confirmed for many years. The Star Island Committee has done it. There have been 27 different fascinations of Norwegian research in recent years, and 13 of them point to small and fragmented trade environments as a main cause for us to struggle with a lack of quality in part of our joints. That means we have to do something. Then we cannot continue as the previous government, as the talk, made a diagnosis, but never started a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e343	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e347	I hope the council had a nice day in Sogndal, where I understand it was both closed and open. Mergers are now being pushed forward without a political discussion in this room, neither with objectives nor with meaning with such structural changes. The central party believes it is unfortunate that the state council and government thus force a centralization of universities and high schools. We want a political discussion of the structure of higher education in the Great Britain before everything is locked, and not least a debate on the purpose. The way a person thinks now, it looks like he's going to push everything into the same shape, and then there's a risk that neither birds nor fish are going to evolve, that neither universities are going to be the best in researching and internationalization, nor that henballs are going to be given their social mission in the best way. My question is: will the Council of State facilitate the Storting to discuss this matter before all structural changes are agreed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e356	I just have to correct the question at one point: There were no closed meetings yesterday. At least if the definition of closed meetings is that there are no presses present with recording equipment, and that everything you say is picked up and potentially sent on the radio, then there were no closed meetings. There was a meeting with the board and employees and press present at the college, and then there was an open public meeting that we in the department had taken the initiative to do, because we want to discuss the possibilities that lie there for the High School in Sogn and Fjordane. This is not a centralisation reform. So we're not discussing decentralised education. We must, precisely because all regions, counties and municipalities must have access to competent labour force. It is also not a reform to make institutions more like — rather, on the contrary. One of the problems in Norway in the last ten years has been that institutions have spread instead of feeding. The Storting will receive a big message during the spring that will discuss the framework and plans for the overall structure of higher education in Norway, and it is already announced to Stortinget when it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e365	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e368	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is clear that the Storting should at least be part of the work on this matter, and I recommend to the Council of State to involve the Stortinget as much as possible – especially if this becomes a major reform. But it's still a little bit unclear. Quality is the main reason why something needs to be done, and it's a honorary word, but it's also a word that the whole Storting can stand behind in this context. We need to improve the quality of both research and education in Norway. The problem is that we do not know so much about particular quality of education, and the quality of both research and education varies widely between institutions. My question is very specific: has the Council set a lower limit on the size of an institution when he is going to look at this in relation to quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e377	The answer to that is no. It's because of the simple fact that bigger isn't always better. Let me give you an example: Norway's business college in Bergen is a rather small institution, but it's at the same time eaten and probably one of the best economic environments we have in Norway. A similar example is Norway’s sports college, which is a small institution, but excellent at a lot. Gjøvik University is one of the environments that, if you compare how much they get from ‘EU pot’ in research funds, with how large they are, gets the most in the whole country, given the size of the institution. That's not always better. The Storting Communication will lay the broad principles and frameworks, but there may not be a detailed map. It's because there will be different processes in different parts of the country, and it will take short time somewhere and a long time elsewhere. We have a number of criteria that indicate quality quite clearly, but I get to explain that on a later question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e386	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e389	The State is the owner of universities and colleges, but private educational institutions are also an important part of the Norwegian education sector, and they are also largely operated on the support of the State. For example, private higher education institutions contribute. significant with the training of nurses, which we know we need more of in the future. Some of them do research in the care professions, which we know we need more of in the future. And some of the professional educational institutions are completely in the forefront within their disciplines. What place does the Council of State think private educational institutions should have in future Education Norway, and how will the Council of State deal with these actors in the structural reform that the government now wants to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e396	A great place – as they have today. In concrete terms, as the representative said, there is one thing about public schools and universities — something else they are private. They must be well funded and, of course, they must also be able to compete and receive research funding. It's important, and there's a lot of very good environments among the private. It's interesting to see that there's also some movement among private colleges. The reason for this is that they share the diagnosis that both previous governments and this government have, namely that we are facing some major challenges in terms of both research, study quality and improving the quality of our world-leading environments, which may suggest that it is a good idea to pool resources. I have said – and I would like to say it again – that it is natural that they too can get part of the reward funds, i.e. the Saks funds, that are in the state budget: 75 million. kr in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e403	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e406	Our colleges and universities have some overlapping roles, but they also have some special roles. The special role of the higher education institutions is to provide good professional training and a decentralised education provision — not least the important teacher training, which I know the Council of State is busy getting even better. And when it comes to teacher training, we see, and we know that many of the small institutions often find better results. For example, the iron percentage of primary school teacher training at the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, which is a relatively small institution, is 4.4 pst., while it is deciduously highest in the major institutions: HiOA, UiS and the University of Southern Trøndelag. I wonder if the Council of State sees that leadership and administration in close proximity to a trade union environment can often be an advantage, or whether he thinks that it is of less importance to each administration when it comes to the decentralised supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e413	Let me just make it clear here too, as I did in Sogn and Fjordane yesterday: no one is discussing whether to have a higher education offer in Sogn and Fjordane. No one is discussing whether to have campus in both Sogndal and Förde. There is no one who discusses whether to teach, to train nurses, etc. That's not the discussion. The mound in Sogn and Fjordane is very good at a lot. One of the best things they can do is connect the higher education institution to the particular community, municipalities and county. And that is probably one of the reasons why the school results in Sogn and Fjordane are at such a level that other states should look longingly after them — with a few exceptions. They're good at bachelors, at conducting bachelors. You have to be a little careful using the ironing percentage as the clearest indicator of quality. High iron percentage does not necessarily mean low quality. It can also indicate the opposite. One of the things I would be worried about if I were on the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, is for example. that students give 24 hours a week as the total number of hours spent in studies. It can also be an indication of the state, in comparison with the character statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e423	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e426	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Last year, the NOCUT student survey on quality was launched, and a new one is expected in these days. Last year, the figures showed that students were largely satisfied with the study, learning outcomes and the relevance of working life. On the other hand, there were some areas that were particularly outstanding, and where the students were not so satisfied. Only half of the students expressed satisfaction with the teaching, while feedback and guidance scores were even weaker. These are pretty serious numbers. Several have pointed out that these figures may indicate that the objective of the Quality Reform has not been achieved. Education, together with research, is the main tasks of educational institutions, and it is absolutely vital for our society that we have good education. The Committee on Church, Education and Research has just given its position on the long-term research and higher education plan. Many have criticised this plan to deal almost exclusively with research and almost nothing about higher education. Some have even suggested that the Stortinget should receive a separate report on education. Last time the study barometer came, the government had only managed the ministry for a few months, but when new figures are to be presented next week, the government has managed the department considerably longer. My question is: What are the government's expectations for the results of education, feedback and guidance this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e439	Thank you for the question. Exactly that I dare not say anything about, but the other parts of the question I would like to answer. I fully agree that one of the problems with quality reform is that there was too much reform that rewarded the production of study credits, not necessarily quality. It was one of the starting points of the expert committee that we set up, which has gone through the funding system and provided a report to turn some of the economic incentives – or incentives – into more rewarding quality. One of the suggestions I find interesting is for example: that you reward a whole lot and not just the production of credits, I think that could be a good idea. I also think it is important to continue to bet on the Centres for Excellent Education, precisely for not only to reward research, but also to reward education. So to the long-term plan: I have registered the criticism. It's always such that a plan could certainly be better in some areas – so humble I think we all have to be. But at the same time, I think it might be based on a perspective I don't entirely agree with. When, for example, highlighting world-leading environments means both research and education. The two are closely linked – as everyone knows – both in higher education and in universities. When we say ‘sea’, it is linked to both educational quality and research efforts. In the same way as the long-term plan is not a detailed description of everything to be done in the field of research, it is also not a detailed description of everything to be done in the field of education and training quality. So I believe that the long-term plan is a very good tool for building up under education quality, along with other changes that are also necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e448	The long-term plan for research and higher education is very good, and research in particular is very good. One of the things the Council of State has repeatedly talked about is these world-leading research environments that everyone wants us to have more of. The left has also been involved in a budgetary settlement where we have strengthened these. But it must also be an objective that we should strengthen the teaching of institutions. One of the things that have been criticised for the long-term plan, which I also agree with, is that there is nothing to say about how to connect research to education. How are we going to take advantage of the good research environments we have, into education? The Council of State here says we're going to bet on the Centres for Excellent Education, and we're going to evaluate some economic incentives to strengthen education. But how does the Council of State see that it is necessary to be able to better link research and education? Is there anything else that the Council of State sees him as capable of doing to strengthen the teaching of educational institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e457	It is quite right that the long-term research plan contains very well. It has also been very well followed up by the majority parties on Stortinget with a historically good research budget, so that's good. I believe that we have got a lot of things in place in terms of educational quality. The study barometer is important – this government should not take credit for it, but it is important. It is also important that we shift the funding system so that it not only rewards progress but also rewards quality. Then there's one last thing I think we also have to hold on to. There is also a political need for discussion on how to improve the quality of education, but we also need to be responsible for the institutions. These are our leading knowledge institutions, which have governments, whose mission is to research and, not least, to provide education for future and future generations. They must also take responsibility for increasing the quality of studies, for example: through adequate guidance time for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e466	There is an opportunity for follow-up questions – first Ingerd Thon Hagaseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e469	A prerequisite for studying and concentrating on the studies is that you have time and financial space to study. Today we know that there are many students who have to work to afford housing, food, teaching materials, etc. The government parties have agreed with the Left and Christian People's Party that the length and scope of study support should be increased during the period. In fact, the students have received 1 pst. increase in the price increase in the autumn budget, but this does not provide enough for the full-time student. How does the Council of State see that he will fulfill the agreement reached with the Left and Christian People's Party on the increase in student support?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e474	I believe that the contrast in the development of study support is very clear after the 2013 elections. In the previous years, the students got the price increase – the noodles became more expensive, and then they got compensated for it. But they slowed down in relation to all the other groups in Norwegian society year after year. After the government change, students have received more than price growth, in other words, they have come closer to the income development of other groups in society. Next to the large stakes of the majority parties in student housing, with 2,000 new student housing to be built in 2015, I believe this is a very good contribution to improving student welfare. The priority of this in the budgets to come is something that the government must do, and of course the majority parties in the Grand Duchy must also negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e479	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e482	Yesterday, the settings for Report were changed. St. 7 for 2014-2015, Long-term plan for research and higher education, issued in Stortinget. It was a rather thin message, and I can only note that the setting actually consists of more pages than the message. The thinnest part is the one dealing with higher education. It is on one and a half sides of a message having ‘higher education’ in its main title. That's pretty special. With regard to quality in higher education, the representative Iselin Nybø is quite right that someone has called for a separate notification. It was the right of the previous magnification period that proposed in this room a separate communication on quality in higher education. My question is, is the Council of State going to promote such a message?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e489	The right had its opinion about the very idea of a long-term plan also in the previous period. We have now improved and put forward a long-term plan that is very good. I think that makes a lot of sense. I think it was Julius Caesar who said, "I have a bad time, so I write a long letter." It is not that the thicker the document is, the higher the quality, although I am absolutely sure that the comments from the committee are both good and thoughtful. In the case of a separate quality evaluation message, quality will be partially followed up in the quality and structure update that comes to date. A separate report on quality and quality of education is absolutely worth considering, but I do not want to promise Stortinget anything now. Then it will be advertised in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e497	Research into the quality of studies at different institutions in Norway is not currently a basis for saying that the quality of studies depends on the size of the institutions or on the country where they are located. At the same time, we see that some smaller institutions, including The highlight of Sogn and Fjordane, which was mentioned earlier today, is between the most naked students in the country, and they offer high-quality students. Nevertheless, the Minister of Knowledge is trying to push the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane to become a satellite campus for another institution. What my Minister of Knowledge will be better with student welfare and the quality of study at the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane by saying that one should no longer be an independent high school, and why is this improved by merging?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e504	There were some interesting contributions yesterday in Sogn and Fjordane from the Förde environment, which is an environment that is excellent in obesity research, public health research, activity research and that kind of thing. Although there are certainly shared opinions there, there were several who suggested that it would be beneficial – the more opportunities in which – to become part of a larger institution. Given that education at both universities and universities should be research-based, the question of control is: will you become a better teacher or lecturer and be able to provide even higher quality of study by also becoming a better researcher? Are the two things related? My answer to that is: Yes, they probably do. It's very important, very good and an important value to take care of that high school in Sogn and Fjordane have very happy students. That's great! It's one of the many good things that the high school in Sogn and Fjordane have done, and they're not just going to work on, but they're going to have to work on, and we're going to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e513	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e516	Education quality and educational quality are concepts for which it may be a little difficult to define and find some good criteria. But what I'm sure of is that in order for education to be the best possible, we have to have the best possible people to teach, and we have to have teaching staff who want to teach. I am absolutely sure that around Norwegian universities and universities there are some who really burn for teaching others, while others burn more for it to research. I myself have been to both types of lecturers in my own study time. When it comes to school and teaching, the government is very offensive. We see a teacher's vow, the teachers are to be lifted, the teachers are to be better. My question is, what will the government do to ensure that we get more good teachers who burn to teach, to our educational institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e525	I almost have to repeat myself, because I think the funding system is actually quite crucial. The funding system is the most important tool in which, as responsible politicians, we send some signals to the institutions about what is a priority. Until now, the funding system has very much premiered student score production and has had little reward, for example. if you have a full degree or other components that may be important for the quality of your study. So I think it's important. I want to make it clear that we also follow closely the results of the student survey. When we in the ministry have discussions with the institutions, they are taken up, and the institutions are held responsible for, for example, students who are dissatisfied with the follow-up they receive. It's also an important way to do it. We have some indications of study quality. For example, when you have: See Norwegian students on average spend a little over 30 hours a week in total on the studies, while 2/3 get the grade C or better, there is an indication of quality and the requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e534	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e537	We have long had the challenge in higher education and research in Norway that one has distinguished between research-free and educational obligations. It's a problem that has been there for a long, long time, and we've always tried to do something about the culture itself in higher education and research when it comes to how it goes. So the government has delivered a very thin pale, long-term plan for research and higher education, where education is almost not mentioned, and several hearing agencies have strongly criticised this – almost everyone has criticised that education is virtually forgotten in this. The dream of a decent association between research and education, where students are brought into contact with the research front, seems to be centered in something else. In the long-term plan, the goal of research is described as being world leader in research, while in education, the level of ambition we need is good education. How should the Minister of Knowledge receive world-leading research with good teaching?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e542	It is an objective that we should also have ‘excellent’ quality of teaching. I just have to repeat again: just as the long-term plan does not outline all the details of research policy in the next ten years, because this is a dynamic sector, it does not outline all the details of higher education policy in the next ten years. But when, for example, writes whether ‘world-leading environments’ — education is ongoing in the plan — is not only research, it is also education. When we write that you have to bet on e.g. «providing technologies» shall mean both the quality of education and the quality of research and the quality of research. So it is true that the concrete promise – what makes this long-term plan special – that it is not just words, like the research messages of previous governments, but concrete, binding escalations that the sector has received, some trade unions have called the historic promise – are linked to fellows, EU funds, equipment and, of course, primarily to research, but it also has an impact on the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e547	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e550	One day I was in a kindergarten where I followed the educational leader in the nursery. I put myself on the shoulders of the educational leader and followed around the nursery, just to get a glimpse of how kindergarten education is: what are they looking at? What type of learning venue is that? What does that game mean for it and for it, etc.? How do they solve problems? It was incredibly useful. I had deep respect for kindergarten education as a tool to capture challenges in children's lives, help and develop different contexts that could contribute to children's development. Some of the most important things we do to help children's development on their premises through play, through learning, through care, are to provide a good framework for kindergarten education, and thus a good framework for kindergarten teachers. We need enough kindergarten teachers. We need to give them good space for action, so that they can be good kindergarten teachers, so that they can have time to exercise their profession and say special ability to see children and their opportunities and challenges in life. In addition, the government has proposed that kindergarten owners, i.e. municipalities or private actors, have the right to instruct kindergarten teachers to use specific systems, tools and methods. The knowledge of those who have the greatest pedagogical competence, the pedagogue teachers, those who see the children every day and know them best, those who are supposed to design the pedagogical structure, should therefore be set aside, and municipal politicians should decide how to do this. My question to the Council of State is therefore: how does the Council of State believe this will lead to better arrangements around the children, and how can this lead to a better kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e559	The question goes to Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e563	Thank you very much for your question. It is a political and a legal aspect of this. Let me start with the legal, legal side. Our assessment is that this is a lawbreaker of what is practice, and then it's neat to get it into the kindergarten law. Let me give you an example: the municipality of Bergen has today said, as the only municipality I know, that all kindergartens are going to use a specific screening tool. Our assessment is that the municipality of Bergen does not break the law when they do. Then it's up to the municipalities within the local self-government you're going to have, how to achieve this. So I would say that it's a good principle, as it is in school, that you do this in close consultation with the professional responsible, that you do it with good pedagogical competence in the luggage, and that you do it in as good, smooth and wise a way as possible. What we want is to ensure that kindergarten owners have – and take – the overall responsibility for the activities and content of kindergartens. But it is clear that it does not remove the need for more kindergarten teachers – I fully agree with the representative in it – and not least also good rulers and good pedagogical leaders. So something about the political side: Next to that I think it is important to make visible and clarify the responsibilities of the nursery owner, I also think it is important to take care of e.g.. private kindergarten chains. I can mention Canvas as an example, which has an ambition of 50 pst. kindergarten teacher's share, and which also has a sketch of a pedagogical scheme they want the kindergartens to use. I think that's an opportunity you should have. I also want to say that it's a problem that we have to address, that almost 10 pst. — at least — of the children who go from kindergarten to school, Norwegians can be so poor that they have no chance of getting the education. You have to do that, and it also requires good kindergarten owners. Having said all that, we've got more input into the hearings, and it's natural now that we also look at the recordings that have come, and evaluate them before a proposal comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e580	Good kindergarten owners are good, but the most important thing for children is good kindergarten teachers. And that's where the government is "on the air" to use a sports event. Just to go back to the situation with the educational leader with whom I was with: Here, the educational leaders, together with the kindergarten teachers, set up the structure around the children in the various kindergartens. What is proposed by the government is that the local government and local bureaucrats should determine the type of methods, mapping tools, etc. one should be enabled here. The Education Association, which organizes almost everyone in the kindergarten sector working on this, is deeply opposed to this and believes that this is taking away from the profession of autonomy and the ability to really help children. This can be harmful for children – and in stark contrast to the Minister’s own statement: ‘The prerequisite for achieving all the objectives I outline is to have strong pedagogical teachers with a high level of expertise, confidence in their own subject, confidence in making their own decisions and being clearly present educators, and educators.’ Isn't the government proposal to go in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e592	I mean, it's not. I believe that there is a difference between sitting and regulating the details of a municipality or local government and having the overall responsibility for a pedagogical activity, which is also the kindergarten. The overall responsibility is also shared in the school, for example, and it is a responsibility I believe is important to have legal leave. I also believe that this is important: although there is a lot of good learning in kindergarten today, there is too much difference between kindergartens, and there are too many children who desperately need help, but who don't get it, simply because we don't discover them. Having said that, I would like to repeat that this is a reason for sending things to the hearing. It is to clarify a question, to raise objections to it, to clarify understanding – among others. understanding of the law – shared by everyone in the sector. We have received a number of consultation proposals. Some are positive – e.g. is KS positive, the large private kindergartens are positive. Some are negative – e.g. The Education Association, which is mentioned, organises very many of the kindergarten teachers. We must also listen to these before we make a final proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e601	It opens for follow-up questions – first Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e604	The Minister of Knowledge has underlined the importance of parental participation in kindergarten. He now proposes to reduce parental influence by cutting out the requirement for parental consent when monitoring the skills of children. The Data Protection Authority states this in its opinion: ‘Personal protection is about privacy and self-determination, and we believe that parts of the Ministry’s amendments undermine the privacy of children and the right to care for children’s interests.’ Furthermore, ‘In our view, this is not a clarification of the current law, but rather a radical extension and redefinition of the work of kindergartens on documentation and assessment.’ My question is therefore: Is the Council of State willing to overrun the assessments of the Data Protection Authority in order to facilitate the mass mapping of the kindergartens without the consent of the parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e619	Governments do not overrun the Data Protection Authority. There is a hearing authority, and in this case they do what is their job, namely to point out the privacy side of this case. The starting point was that there was a need for cleaning up, precisely because it has been poorly anchored in law. As a result, there has also been a very wide-ranging practice in the processing of data protection in kindergarten. It has, among other things, The Data Protection Authority pointed out several times. The Ministry's proposal is to legislate this clearly in law. Thus, the Ministry’s assessment has been that the documentation relating to the core activities of the kindergarten does not explicitly ask parents to approve. I have to remind you what it is: it is e.g. follow the development of the child’s language, monitor the child’s functioning with other children, and be able to share it with other employees, in a professional community, and take action to follow it up. But here too, of course, we take the consultation round seriously, and we're going to take a good look at the recordings before we send a proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e628	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e631	I will follow up on the last one, and so far my question could also have been addressed to the Minister of State. There's no doubt that here there's going to be a lot of person-sensitive data stored with the mapping system proposed in the new law. In the consultation note, the Council of State devotes a great deal of attention to privacy and regulation. This is sensitive information that is demanding if they are to be balanced. Then my question is: one thing is to clarify the legislation, but what will the Council of State do to ensure that the local government sector follows up the legislation and ensures that this information does not get out of hand? It's a relevant question today, I think, because it's the world's privacy day as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e640	Thank you very much for your question. I think it's very good and very relevant questions as well. It's quite obvious that here it could also be very sensitive information. One thing is about the type of language development, but also about, for example: a child’s traits, if shy, have problems with being with other children and that kind of thing. I mean, these two things are kind of related. One of the keys here is that the responsibility is clearly left to the kindergarten owner, and when the nursery owner has the overall responsibility, not the detailed regulatory responsibility, for the pedagogical activities in a kindergarten, it is also the municipality that is responsible for the personal information. You can imagine that if you allowed the opposite, namely that it was just every nursery that was responsible, every nursery itself had to handle the personal information within the law. That, I think, would be a situation in which it became more difficult to maintain important privacy considerations than if you left it clearly at the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e647	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e650	Now the government has sent its proposals to the hearing, and the Christian People's Party will decide on the proposals when they are promoted in the Stortinget. Then perhaps the proposals look different than what has been sent to the hearing. The Christian People's Party is going to take the hearing answers seriously, and as I know the Council of State, he will probably also listen to wise advice from the hearing bodies. The consultation note states that the government will clarify the basis for the work of kindergartens on documentation and assessment. This is based on the assumption that the changes should not lead to an increase in the workload of the individual nursery. It is a little difficult to understand what the changes for the work of kindergartens on the documentation and assessment of children actually involve, so I just wonder if the council could elaborate a little more on what is in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e658	The core of this is the same thing that I came back to with a few of the questions, namely that our assessment is that this is the sanctioning of what is already not just practice, but is already the legal state – to use that expression – in Norwegian kindergartens. It is governed by regulations, and it is provided for in the framework plan for kindergartens. It is a little important to distinguish between observation and documentation. It can be anything from the daily observation that skilled, good kindergarten teachers do of the children to the kind of screening you put in for the children you suspect need extra follow-up, and the results of it. And then there are different practices from kindergarten to kindergarten. However, kindergartens have a very broad responsibility for the children, and here, in our opinion, the obligation to document is to include both linguistic development and other types of observations such as: how children function socially.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e663	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e666	The screening of young children in kindergarten is a demanding theme, I think. The question is whether this is what it takes to catch up with the children who need help, or whether it will be a system that prevents children from being children, at a different rate than normal, and that it will be necessary to sicken children. I say that there can be a requirement that all children should be like the average, and no one is allowed to create it. So I also hear that the Council of State has sent out a proposal that the monitoring of kindergarten children should also not be allowed to have consent from parents. Now you've got a child that's being measured -- from one newborn to another, it's a dot in a form. But at least it's going to be a completely different matter when you come to kindergarten and there's even more screening without it being a parent-child-garden collaboration. So the question is, why does the Council of State at all propose a proposal that parents should not be able to say about such a survey?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e675	I agree that this is a difficult discussion, and there are some dilemmas here. But I just want to say that in most kindergartens today, screening tools are used, and there is no resistance to it, that sometimes you also need the help of a little bit more systematized mapping tools. To take a scenario: Let's say that a kindergarten after a long observation has seen that one of the 5-year-olds in the kindergarten just don't learn Norwegian well enough, and that one wants to find out more about it, and then they go to the parents and ask: We believe that this is the only professionally sound thing if your boy is to be equipped for school. So the parents say no. This possibility can be argued for in kindergarten, because it's a voluntary offer, but obviously you don't have that opportunity in school. You can, for example: do not refuse to participate in a screening test because you do not want to do so, in step 1. Why? Because we're busy finding the children who need help, and following them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e684	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e687	The debate on the method to be used when presenting the matter to the Storting is an important debate, and so is the debate on privacy, and I always think there is reason to be skeptical when data protection is put to the test. But the background for this is that you want good quality in our kindergartens, and what's perhaps the most important thing to get good quality in kindergartens, is to have kindergarten teachers out there to be with the kids, to follow up the kids, to teach kids things. It is probably also the biggest challenge for municipalities: many municipalities have a lot of dispensation today, they are struggling to get educated people into kindergartens. We know that language is very important to learn at an early age. Many people have to take in foreign labour because you don't get enough people into their kindergartens. So my question to the state council is, what will the state council do to get more kindergarten teachers into kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e694	It was one of the most important investments in the budget made by the government. I've often said that we've almost doubled the measures to promote the quality of kindergarten, but if you go into what those means are, it's just related to this. It is linked to allowing more students with a letter to take child care teachers, preferably on the basis that they are still at work, to increase their competence, their quality, through further training — teacher training for pedagogical leaders, pedagogical activities — for several of the unskilled to have a chance to take a letter of formal qualifications. All of this is within the quality pot that the majority parties in Stortinget have now provided in the budget in 2015. Then I'm very concerned about the language situation and language development in kindergarten. It is stated in the government statement that you want to have a type of competence requirement, a language requirement for the employees of the kindergarten, and that is what we are now examining, because this also raises some legal issues. But I think the ambition must be that everyone who works in the kindergarten should speak Norwegian well, and that it is also for the best for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e701	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e704	My question also goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The Council of State has announced that he has started work on revising the regulation to ensure that the private and municipal kindergartens are treated in a non-discriminatory way in terms of economics. It's a work that the Workers' Party supports, because we often hear about things that are perceived as unfair. Private kindergartens have lower crews, cheaper pension schemes and fewer children with special needs than local authorities, but still received increased grants in 2014. The Nesodden municipality has curtailed the grant to some private kindergartens, because they stayed closed for several weeks than the municipal authorities. The municipality therefore believed that it would be wrong for them to receive the same subsidy as the municipal authorities when they had significantly shorter opening hours. The case is now settled and the municipalities cannot shorten the grant even if the opening time is shorter than in the municipal kindergartens. The result for these kindergartens is not only that they receive the same grant as the municipal, although the opening time is shorter, they also receive increased compensation because they change the rate from 96 pst. to 98 pst. in the previous State budget. So the private kindergartens get covered non-existent costs. Does the Council of State think that this is a sensible way of using public funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e715	I would first like to warn you a little bit about the categorical mention of the private kindergartens that the representative has, where she almost describes the private kindergartens that are generally worse on both crews and other than public kindergartens. Very many of the private kindergartens have a higher crew than the public. They generally have a high level of parental satisfaction, and there are considerable differences in the type of pension schemes they have for their employees. So it's important not to talk about the entire private kindergarten sector as if everyone is equal and has e.g. the same pension scheme. I and the government still believe that equal treatment between public and private kindergartens is the goal. We took one step in that direction last year, but we haven't taken the next step this year, and that's because it's natural to see equal treatment in the context of the problem complex that the representative Aasrud addresses. That is why we have said that we need a review of the whole funding system for kindergartens. It's a work that's now in progress. Non-discrimination must then be assessed, any costs linked to different cost levels must be considered, and private childcare facilities must also be considered, for example. does not receive capital grants and is thus dependent on them. I think that makes sense. The representative Aasrud has several times criticized me for wanting to treat private and public kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. I must also remember today that it was a formulation and a goal that the previous government had, and that was almost a cross-political environment behind it. I agree that it may now be time for an overall review, but the aim is, of course, that we should have as much equal treatment as possible and good quality in the private and public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e724	For time reasons, there will be no follow-up questions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e728	The Council of State is aware of this, for example: from Telemarksforskning there is a report that says there is 15 pst. less costs in private kindergartens, and we see here that you can't claim that you have equal opening time once. Then there is reason to repeat the question: why did you start to increase the amount of funding before going through these things? It's true, as the Council of State says, that we also agree to equal treatment, but then you have to find the parameter that makes you treat the same, not compare apples and pears. This is what the Council of State is doing here in many ways, when there is evidence that there are so many differences in cost levels as there are, among other things. The report from Telemarksforsking shows. The question then arises: is it not wrong to use public funds when you first spend 160 million? kr to increase the grant and not to ensure that you have the same level of costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e735	I believe that precisely if you are concerned that you should be able to have even better staff in the private kindergartens that do not have enough staff today, it is important to take another step towards non-discrimination. Then I believe it is good that the representative raises a big discussion about the nursery financing. I have said several times that I agree that there is a problem complex that we have to go into. What I think is strange, is that the representative repeatedly tries to be high and dark in the discussion, as if it were suddenly after the Workers' Party went out of government, is good just to hit a line over what one did the previous eight years. Then it's worth remembering that this was a political ambition that the red-green government had, and it was granted funds for non-discrimination with the same system as it is today. We did the same in 2014. But now we've said that we want to go through the whole system and see everything in context, both where we know that the private kindergartens get less, and there are some, among other things. Telemark research, they've thought they'll get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e742	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e754	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the list of questions drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e761	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘On questions from TV 2 on 16 January about the Council of States ‘ready to set aside human rights’ in order to secure the Mulla Creaks, the Council of State answers ‘yes’. That's an eye-catching answer. Respect for human rights is the fundamental distinction between the Norwegian authorities and the fundamentalism represented by the Krekar. Will the Council of State change its response and confirm that the Government is not willing to set aside human rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e775	As Minister of Finance, I can state that the Government is underpinning its work by the Constitution and Norwegian law, including the Law on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e780	There is a clear answer on behalf of the government. However, I must be allowed to ask an additional question, since the Minister of Finance has given the interview mentioned, and it is only to assure me that the Minister of Finance will also close up the government's policy, and that that is the case, and not what the Minister of Finance said on TV2 at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e785	I ask in Stortinget’s Question Time – or in Stortinget in general – as Minister of Finance and answer here the questions for which I am responsible to Stortinget in the role of State Council. On the basis of that, I can once again state that the government is underpinning its work by the Constitution and Norwegian law, including the Law on Human Rights. But then, the representative is certainly not completely aware that the role of party leader in a government party leads to participation in various debates and answers to questions relating to one's own party, and the party leader in the Progress Party believes that the Progress Party has always thought: Our policies and our solutions are firm. On the basis of what this matter concerns, I want to establish the two conditions we have always been concerned about. One is that the broadcasting decision must be implemented as soon as conditions permit. The second is that until broadcasting can be implemented, we need solutions to safeguard the interests of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e792	I fully understand that a party leader may have different opinions from that of the government at any time. But this isn't any question. That's why it's very important that we don't have a government that says two different things about its view of something as fundamental to Norwegian democracy as human rights. That is why it is especially if Siv Jensen reserves the right to say one thing in the storeroom and something else outside. It will be a great advantage for the government if the government's message is one – in this room, on TV 2 and elsewhere. I want to ask if it is now that the government is going to speak with one voice in this case, also in the media, and that one voice will say the opposite of what Siv Jensen said on TV 2, namely that it is of course not relevant to put the human rights aside in this or any other case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e797	The government has one policy and I want to repeat what I have said several times today, namely that we are adding to the Constitution and the Norwegian law for our work. Then I want to underline to the representative Lysbakken what is in the party program of the Advance Party. I shall quote from it, for we have programmed that the party is for fundamental human rights, and that we will work 'for universal acceptance of human rights'. We also want the UN to focus on and ‘prevent persistent gross violations of fundamental human rights’. However, the Progress Party is also designed to address the new safety challenges facing Norway and Europe. I hope, at least, that the representative Lysbakken is also looking for solutions for the sake of citizens' safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e810	‘The national transport plan provides for the coherent development of E16 above the Philesian. To keep the progress of the project in progress, the action programme has added 50 million. kr to start of the E16 Eye–Eidsbru route in 2015. On the other hand, in the government's budget, there is a cut of 55 million. kr to E16 Fileberg, which according to the State Road Service means that a person does not have the means to start the project and thus keep the progress. What are the professional reasons for the cut-off proposal, and can the Council of State guarantee that this will not lead to delays in development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e817	In the government budget for this year, the government proposed to start work on this parliament this year. It is government policy to have an offensive extension of the road system beyond what the national transport plan has provided. We therefore proposed to set at 55 million. kr for that purpose this year. This project is the last stage of development of E16 over File Mountain. So it's like we don't have a majority in the Storting. We therefore had to go through budgetary negotiations, and in the budget negotiations there was the second party that wanted to give priority to rail and road. Then it was this project that lost its allocation, so it was cut by 55 million. kr on entry 36 for E16 over the Mountain of File. This means that there is no means of starting up the project now in the autumn, as planned, but there will be rational plant operation for the E16 project above the Fileberg. There's continuous expansion. It's not like we're going to take a break in the projects that are, and then start rigging down the organization and going on later. It'll be a continuous expansion, but exactly that parcel we're not going to do as planned. Then it is my job as Minister of Transport to ensure that we maintain the pace of the projects in progress – there are no changes made – and that we ensure that when the money comes to the project that is now losing them, it builds it as quickly as possible, so that we avoid delays as far as possible. E16 over Philly is an important route. We've said we're going to implement it, but we didn't get a majority to grant that money this year. I want to work for them to be put in place as soon as possible later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e826	I know that the proposal to withdraw the funds came from the Left Party, but the Council of State has also the possibility, if the Council of State would, to make other proposals. But I'm not going to go into those negotiations. In the newspaper Valdres 27 January a read that there is a stop for E16 Eye–Eidsbru: ‘The road body stops the grounding after the withdrawal of 55 million’.» Newspaper has tried to get answers in the Ministry of Transport on whether the stop in the basic occupation is temporary or whether the department intends to scrape the expansion, but no one has been able to give any answers before the newspaper went into print. Can the Council of State give an answer as to what is the reason why the foundation work is stopped and whether one wants to take up this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e838	I've already answered that question. I say this project is to be expanded. It's going to be built out completely. This means that even if you get a delayed start on the last parcel, it will not mean that you are building down the organisation for a period of time. So here one would have had more projects going on at the same time. Now it'll probably be more linear anyway. But that doesn't mean that the project is sloppy. We are committed to meeting the national transport plan on both road, rail and all areas. We're delivering on it. We are in front of the form for the follow-up to the national transport plan. When one in Stortinget decides to grant a little less money than planned by the government, one must cut somewhere. Had it not been this road project, it would have been another road project. The overall assessment was that the project that is least hit by a cut is just this. Buying property, which is a basic acquisition grant, can still be done relatively quickly when the money comes on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e845	That's a funny angle from the Council when he says they're forced to cut 55 million. kr. The alternative is of course to find fresh funds. Both I and other former government councils have been involved and have done so in many different contexts when you have been asked on the table to strengthen an area. I fully agree that the railway must be strengthened, but it should not be at the cost of road. It surprises me that the Progress Party of all of us is cutting so hard in a road project – the party that has criticised us before for being too small. This is a small song, and what is said by the Council of State today, is alarmingly defensive in view of his own role and the role of government in driving road development in this country. So my question is again: will the Council of State make sure that there is an offer coming out, and that there will be no delays in relation to what is in the national transport plan for E16 above File Mountain?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e852	I have already said that I guarantee that the road project will be completed. So this is not a slump, but it is a temporary delay in starting because the Storting has adopted a different budgetary framework than what we proposed. So I would also like to remind you, when it appears that there's a rough way to go here, that the road budget is now much bigger than the representative Navarsete ever had when she was a government councillor in the same department. Thus, there is now an over-fulfillment of the national transport plan, where the previous government at the same time in its period was expected to under-comply with the national transport plan. That's why I don't have a bad conscience about what's going on right now, when there's a road effort that means that for the first time in many decades, we're now starting to pick up the maintenance kit, which increased year by year under the previous government. On the railway, the maturity increased from 9.5 billion. DKK to over 18 billion kr in the eight years the red-green fell. For the first time in a long time, we're now beginning to reduce the maturity. I would like to receive the money I had proposed for this project. The majority would not, but overall, the majority have given a very good budget for transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e865	The NRC has a unique societal mission as a public broadcaster, with its strong presence throughout the country, with its function in crisis, and with the preparedness responsibility of the NRC. My question is: ‘Since the NRK was not granted the necessary licence increase to keep track of the costs incurred in the workforce, they must now cut. In one of the proposals, NRK Hedmark and Uppland and NRK Trøndelag are at risk of having to bear 90 pst. of the collected cuts. The centre party believes that district offices are important to fulfil the role of NRK as public broadcasters and cultural carriers. What will the Council of State, in its capacity as General Assembly of the NRK, do to ensure that the cuts will not frustrate local journalism and the presence of the NRK in the affected counties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e876	As the representative Schlagsvold Vedum knows, a majority in Stortinget decided that the broadcasting fee for 2015 would increase by DKK 25. The background to the Decision is that since 2006 the NRK has received significant increases in licence revenue. The NRK licence has increased much more than the general price increase and, in addition, the number of tax payers in the same period has increased by about 200 000. The expenditure of the NRC is largely independent of the number of licensees, so over the year the population increase has significantly improved the economic environment of the NRC. However, the size decision for the 2015 licence requires the NRC to implement certain savings. Staff costs account for more than half the costs incurred by the NRK, and it is therefore not unnatural that savings have consequences for staffing in the NRK. As Minister of Culture, I am responsible for defining the overall framework for the activities of the NRK and also ensuring that the NRK fulfils its social mission. But then it is up to the board and the management to manage the company's values and prioritize resource use within the financial framework laid down in the Annual Broadcasting Tax Decision of the Stortingen. The statutes of the NRK require the Governing Board to present to the general meeting all matters which are presumed to be of major, fundamental, political or social importance. I have also not received any notice from the board that it wants to file a case for the general meeting on how the company will implement the cost reductions. I have other confidence that the NRK Board and also the management are able to make the arrangements that are right and necessary within the framework of the statutes, and that there is no obligation to frustrate neither the local journalism nor the presence of the NRK in those states. I would also like to mention that the requirements for efficiency improvement and savings apply not only to the district offices, but to the whole NRC. The NRC Board has adopted a budget for 2015 which assumes that the reduction of staff started by the NRC in 2014 will continue in 2015 to ensure a balance sheet result. The goal of the company as a whole is to reduce manning during 2015 from 3,638 to 3,500 permanent annual works. I have been informed that the proposal for staffing in the district offices is based on an internal analysis carried out by the NRK, which defines the necessary standard staffing in the district offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e885	At the beginning of the 2000s, there was a process around which one would merge district offices in the NRC. There were four counties who followed management's call to join forces to release journalistic resources. It was Hedmark and Uppland and the Trendelags. But then there was so much resistance in the other states that the process was stopped. What is happening now is that the two regions that chose to follow management's call to merge and release journalistic resources are the two regions that are being penalised and get the biggest cuts. Is it a wise way to control the conversion in the NRK that those who are actually trying to release resources, in the next round will be punished, as almost the whole cut to be taken within the district division, takes place in the four states that have followed the NRK's own advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e892	Firstly, I would like to stress that it is my responsibility to ensure that the NRK complies with the statutes – and not least the poster – adopted by the Stortinget. I trust that the board and the administration will actually follow up the financial frameworks that they have been allocated, and adapt their activity to it. As I know, it is not decided how many jobs to take up in the individual district office. A lookup on the journalist.no shows that eight different options are available, but it is not that a decision has been made on this. These proposals, which are under assessment in the NRC, are based on an internal work already started in the summer of 2014 with a view to standardising the staffing of each district office. It is very important to stress the division of responsibilities between the State Council and the responsibility of the board and the management of the NRC.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e901	I notice that the Council of State says that no decision has been taken, and then there is still hope. Here's not my wish to score political points. The point is that I want to have the strongest possible NRK in the whole country, both in the Trondelag counties and in Hedmark and Uppland, as it is in many other counties. Then I repeat the question, because what's going on is that what's going on is that it's just the states -- and we might be a little too kind in Hedmark and Uppland and in the Trondelags -- that when the management said it, they heard it, and joined forces and released resources, which are now being punished. Does the Council not see that the presence of the district division in the country is one of the main jewels of the NRK, and that one must also play with the states that have wanted to release editorial resources, and not punish them when one comes into needy economic times?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e908	I think it is important to stress that in point 3 of the NRK plaque it is just stated that ‘the NRK should reflect the geographical diversity of Norway and have a good local offer and presence’. I very much agree with what the representative here stresses, that it is important to maintain a strong and good NRK in all parts of the country. It has a function that includes, among other things, preparedness, and some additional functions that we pay for through the license increases that come, so that the NRK can offer a good deal. Then I again stress that it is the board of directors and the management of the company that are responsible for allocating the resources that they have at all times available, and I assume that they also follow up what is in the statutes, but not least what the NRK poster emphasizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e919	«On 19 January 2015, the Day Revy presented a case that Norwegian municipalities lack money for climate action. State Secretary Lars Andreas Lunde says that the most important Norwegian municipalities can do to prepare for the climate crisis is to merge. Do the Council of State agree that a few years in advance of the merger of municipalities is more important than the rapid implementation of measures to cut climate change emissions and adapt the Norwegian society to climate change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e926	The issue in the News of the Day was about adaptations that society has to make to a changed climate — not emissions reductions. It is important that municipalities also ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced, and they have many instruments for this, such as: state plan guidelines on climate and energy say something about it. But the case at the NRK was about climate change adaptation – not emission reductions. The State Secretary gave a longer interview and mentioned a number of important instruments and measures, but only one sentence was included in the broadcast. The context and all the other important measures mentioned were edited away. The NRK has even admitted to the Ministry of Climate and Environment that the title and impression were misleading, and changed the matter to make it more nuanced. The representative Pedersen's question is therefore on a failed basis, and I think that is quite clear. But, as the representative Pedersen is sure to be aware, climate change adaptation is a quite new subject. We know that many municipalities need further competence in this. Therefore, assistance to municipalities to enable them to work well with climate adaptation is very important to the government. Different government authorities guide through their channels, and we are developing more detailed climate data, so that municipalities have better knowledge of how climate change will turn out in them. We have several websites that provide information and guidance on how municipalities can and should work with climate adaptation. We are also in the process of setting up networks for work on climate change adaptation in municipalities and have established our own state support system for climate action and adaptation. The appropriations allocated to the work of the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorates in securing floods and migration have increased considerably in recent years. Community integration is another debate, but it is obvious that it provides an opportunity to strengthen professional environments. This, in turn, can help to strengthen climate adaptation, but we are not waiting for this. The examples show that government is doing a great deal to ensure that society is optimally adapted to a changing climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e939	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State determines that there is a need for more action than a community merger to adapt Norway to the climate change that is not just coming, but that is already above us. We have seen that floods and fires have caused the municipalities a lot of extra work and huge bills. We know that floods, fires and climate change happen at random. We have seen that Lærdal received less than half of the help they asked for, and the rapporteur there says that he feels failed by the Prime Minister. Before Christmas, the Labour Party and the rest of the opposition in Stortinget promoted a number of measures to help municipalities better in the coming period, both in the form of increased appropriations and, for example, in the form of: a stepping-up plan under the auspices of the NVE in order to assist the municipalities better. This was downgraded. Will the Minister for Climate Change review these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e950	As I said in my first answer, the appropriations for NVE for flood and scaffolding protection have increased considerably in recent years. It is important that we have a close cooperation with the municipalities, so that they work with climate adaptation. In addition, it is important that municipalities also work continuously to reduce climate emissions. So we're working well with the municipalities in this field, because this is important, because the challenge of climate change adaptation is no less in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e955	I fully agree with the Minister for Climate Change that this is a challenge that is going to be greater. It is also quite right that appropriations have increased in recent years, but so have the challenges. Both municipalities and county municipalities are in a situation where they have to pay larger and larger bills to repair climate damage, while they have to upgrade infrastructure, capacity and knowledge in other ways to adapt to the future. This costs money, and therefore the opposition in Stortinget has proposed a stepping-up plan for the NVE, in order to assist the municipalities better. We have proposed to review the legislation on compensation for municipalities that are randomly affected by natural damage, and we have proposed to carry out hazard monitoring in the 120 most vulnerable municipalities. All of this was voted down by the majority of the population, and that's why I repeat the question: Will the Minister for Climate Change review these proposals so that we can better equip the municipalities for a society where climate change affects us?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e962	We are taking a number of measures to increase the competence of municipalities. We have state authorities as guides within their areas of responsibility. There are several guides and websites that also tell about the local impacts of climate change and possible climate adaptation measures. We are also updating the information on the future climate in Norway based on the latest figures from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We're setting up a local community climate adaptation network. We have set up a new 2 million grant scheme. kr for climate adaptation measures. Last April, I set up an expert committee to review the flood legislation and propose any changes that may clarify the responsibilities and roles of municipalities. So we do a lot with the municipalities, and I fully agree with the representative Pedersen that we have to do a lot in this area, because this challenge doesn't get any smaller in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e971	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment and says this: ‘According to the Lima climate agreement, Norway is to submit our 2030 climate change target to the UN by 31 March. The state budget expects that emissions in 2030 will be around the current level, but the government has announced a global report on climate policy in February. Why does the government propose to deal urgently with one of the most important issues during this major period, and can the Council of State explain what theme is expected to be addressed in the context of the notification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e980	Norway shall report, as the representative refers to, our indicative emission obligation to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change during the first quarter of 2015. This is the forerunner of what could later become a commitment to a climate agreement for all countries. The agreement itself is negotiated in Paris. Experience has shown that it may take longer before it is ready for ratification. Normally, the Stortinget will be involved in a new Norwegian commitment only after ratification. However, we see that this is a matter of great political importance, and we therefore signaled in the revised national budget that the Stortinget will be properly briefed. By providing a big message, we provide a good and thorough orientation, and we want to anchor this in Stortinget. I would also like to recall what the task is: to submit an indicative commitment to the climate negotiations in Paris in December, with sufficient information to clarify what the contribution involves. Only at the Lima climate conference last December was it finally adopted what we are expected to present. We have said in the past that we will present a big message about this in mid-February. We're still working for that. After this, the Storting itself must decide what is the proper time for this notification. It is not right for me now to go into detail about the content of a message that has not been submitted, but I would also like to remind you that the Stortinget was fully informed about this matter in the revised national budget for 2014. What we said there was, among other things, that the government will use the knowledge base of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in the design of a new emission obligation. Norway’s recordings shall also be quantifiable, predictable and capable of being verified internationally. We are also concerned that the commitment is designed to provide the right incentives for all sectors, both in the short and longer term, thus creating predictability for investors and decision-makers. In addition, I will refer to the presentation of the notice in February. The notification will provide the Storting with the necessary information to facilitate a good decision on Norway’s climate obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e997	During the past year and a half, I have almost innumerablely asked the Council of State whether she can quantify how much emissions are going to be cut in Norway with the government's policy. She has never responded to it, and she still does not respond to it. What we know, on the other hand, is that emissions per capita in Norway are among the highest in Europe. Only Russia and Estonia have higher emissions per capita in Europe. Sweden has half as high emissions per capita as Norway. Nevertheless, the Council of State said last Tuesday that Norway should have ambitious climate targets, but that does not necessarily mean that we should cut as much as the EU. So how can the Council of States now defend, given the high level of emissions Norway has, that she has already signaled that we should cut less than the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1002	I have now said that we are going to Stortinget with a message that is going to be ready for our emissions obligations by 2030. Now, statistical central agency just came up with new, up-to-date emission figures. We see that emissions have decreased every year since 2010. So it's going the right way, but we also see that the gap to achieve the 2020 target is reduced from 8 million tonnes to 6.5 million tonnes. But what is quite clear, and which also emerged clearly in Lima, is that all countries must increase their ambitions by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1007	The truth about Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions is that they do not go down substantially and that there are projections in the government’s own national budget that suggest that at least greenhouse gas emissions will not decrease by 2020. Connected to the fact that the government repeatedly refuses to commit to concrete emission cuts, it is no wonder that our emissions do not go down. The question then arises: can the Minister for Climate Change at least confirm that the notification she is about to submit will set out a clear and quantified target in tonnes for the Norwegian territory greenhouse gas emissions to be in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1012	The message comes in mid-February, so exactly what we add up to, then comes. What is quite clear, as I have also said repeatedly here, is that Norway should convert to a low-carbon society. The government has said that we should strengthen the climate agreement, and through our cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have also set up concrete instruments to strengthen the climate agreement through the 2015 state budget. We have record investments on the rail, we have biogas, and we have an increment deduction, to mention something. This work will continue, but we have to get back to it when the message is soon submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1021	‘In this year’s hospital speech, the Council of State outlined three models for hospitals. Model 1 is to maintain acute surgery in the smallest hospitals for a few more years. Governments referred to this model as a winkpinning process through many difficult processes where quality will suffer in the process. Governments have subsequently ensured that emergency functions at Tynset, Kirkenes and Hammerfest are maintained according to model 1. What will the Council of State do to avoid vigilance and ensure good quality in emergency surgery?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1028	In the hospital address in January, I presented three possible development pathways for the Norwegian hospital structure: We can continue with today's structure and maintain emergency surgery even in the smallest hospitals for a few more years. We can follow the traditional medical thinking that says that the acute functions of internal medicine should always be in conjunction with the acute functions of surgery. When the surgery is centralised as a result of medical development, it will mean significantly less acute reception and thus significantly less hospitalisation. We maintain our decentralised hospital structure, but adapt the emergency functions based on the population base. This will mean that we can maintain medical emergency preparedness in several hospitals near where the patients live. The government wants to find a model that makes it possible to maintain a decentralised hospital structure, and that all hospitals provide a predictable and safe offer to patients. In Norway, regardless of the model, we need to take geographical considerations, such as: in Finnmark. But we need to talk about what will be a good work sharing between hospitals. Today, there are differences in the quality and stability of services offered by many hospitals. The challenges are closely linked to the fact that many Norwegian hospitals are very small and serve a small population. As a result, many diseases and conditions rarely occur, and it is difficult to maintain the training needed by the professionals, especially in surgery. Both knowledge and training require a patient volume greater than that of many hospitals today. The professional community advises that more of the surgery should be collected in fewer hospitals. I'm now working on finding a model that makes this possible, while we can keep small hospitals as a base wall in the hospital supply to the population. The government wants the model not to weaken the acute surgery, but to strengthen it. The most important thing is that the patient meets a surgeon who is trained to perform the intervention the patient is going through. We have to do this without laying down many of the small hospitals. This can be done by adapting the emergency functions of the population assigned to a hospital. In the National Health and Hospital Plan, we will explore all three models for the future development of hospitals. Until the matter is brought before the Storting until the fall, I want an open and good discussion about this, both professionally and politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1057	I feel that the Council of State does not answer my question. I did not ask if the three hospital models, I asked about the hospitals in Tynset, Kirkenes and Hammerfest – as state councillor and state secretary in the media has used words like “guarantee” and “promised” about – to keep their emergency surgical preparedness. At the same time, the Council of State speaks of such hospitals coming out of difficult processes where quality will suffer in the process. Then I wonder what the state council will do to prevent these hospitals from experiencing what the state council itself is warning about in the hospital address, thus avoiding difficult processes, so that it becomes carefree and one avoids constant proposals to lose emergency surgery.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1064	I am not aware that there are any concrete plans to make changes to the emergency offer in the three mentioned hospitals. We are monitoring the development of the various health businesses. What is now important is to get a good discussion about what needs to be in place around this type of offer to take care of the quality and safety of the patient, and also to make it attractive jobs for good professionals. That is why I have now decided to set up a group of professionals in anaesthesia, surgery, orthopaedics and internal medicine to advise the Department on the professional consequences of the three hospital models that were discussed. They shall also provide advice on what is required of support functions to make a model of acute internal medicine, planned surgery, orthopaedics and anaesthesia sustainable and professionally attractive to smaller hospitals, and what is needed to maintain a good professional offer where there is also a lower patient base.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1069	There was a report that was to be sent on the phone, a proposal to remove acute surgery on Tynset. But my question is in principle: when the State Council and the State Secretary go out in the media and guarantee and make promises, Health-Noreg must know whether this is a political signal that is binding on us in time. Will the Council of State do it the proper way, i.e. through a business meeting, or does the Council of State think it's okay to give an interview in different local newspapers – and from the Chair of the Grand Council do not want to confirm the same information?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1074	I understand that the representative Toppe, based on the interest of the Center Party, had a wish that there was still an uncertainty about the offers at these hospitals, but it is not. I've given a very clear statement on that. As I have said, we have to take geographical considerations into account. The hospitals in Finnmark are examples of this. Even if you have a patient basis that is below what are the professional recommendations in order to maintain a wide range of emergency surgery, we have to do it for geographical reasons. Assessing that uncertainty is important for the population. I understand that the Center Party is frustrated by that, because it's not a central party-building statement. But it's important to clarify that kind of uncertainty, and it's now settled. There are also no concrete plans to make changes to these offers. If it had appeared there, we would of course have had to follow it up the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1083	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘The Cooperation Agreement states that the Government will establish a statutory right to the care and care of the lucky day. In municipalities, there are several ways to decide on the allocation of hospital accommodation. In Oslo, there are separate ordering offices which take the decision and are able to oversee the doctors’ assessments of when room needs to be allocated. This can put patients and their closest ones in unsustainable situations. Does the Council of State consider that there should be a need for follow-up of the assessments to the doctors responsible for the patient in the allocation of hospital accommodation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1092	The Health and Welfare Act obliges the municipality to ensure that persons staying in the municipality are provided with the necessary health and care services. This means that it is the municipality that is to ensure that the individual receives proper treatment at the right time and on an adequate scale. It is the municipality as a service provider who decides in principle where the service is to be provided — i.e. whether the service is to be provided in hospital, in an adapted nursing home with the crew of the day or in the patient’s own home. The choice will be largely influenced by the way in which each municipality has chosen to organise and organise its services. Municipalities that have made it possible for patients to stay at home for as long as possible and where the home service has a short response time and good professional quality could have a higher threshold for hospitalisation than other municipalities. The doctor’s assessment of the patient’s service needs will always weigh heavily on the municipality. However, with regard to the choice of services, the local authority’s or local authority’s ordering office – whether Oslo Municipality or other municipalities and how to organise the assignment – will be closer than the doctor to make the final decision. This is because the municipality has a better overview than the individual doctor of the municipality's overall offer, and because the Stortinget as legislator has chosen to make the municipality a subject of obligation. Consequently, it is the municipality that is legally responsible for the offer being made. I think it's more important to focus on what the individual patient himself wants, than that the doctor should have the last word. Once the patient’s service needs have been identified, the patient should be allowed, as far as possible, to choose the offer or the service facilities himself. It's the patient's health and care service, and that's what we're working for. The government is working to legislate the right to the care and care of the lucky day, with a view to introducing it into the period. This is in line with the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. How the device on the law will be, I will come back to it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1107	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, I agree that attention should be paid to the patient's wishes and needs. In the cases I know, there is a coincidence between the doctors' recommendation and their wishes and the patient's wishes, so the contradictions I know have been between the assessments made in the urban areas or at the ordering offices, and the assessments made by the doctor. I probably don't quite agree that the ordering offices, as they call it here in town, have a better understanding of how things work for the patient. Armys, including: advisers, have very close knowledge of how the offer is organised. So my question is really whether you have a different ambition than just saying that it's up to the municipalities, and that the municipalities will organize this differently. Is there not another ambition in what is now in the Memorandum of Cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1116	The ambition to legislate is precisely to ensure the legal certainty of the individual citizen and to ensure that what is the professionally correct offer. What the representative, Mr Bøhler, refers to is a thought that the Stortinget has not agreed to, namely that it is the individual permanent staff member who is to decide this. According to the law, this is the responsibility of the municipality, and the municipality itself will, of course, organise to whom they give it the decision-making authority. In most municipalities, this is decided by the municipal health and care administration, but the views of the decision-makers are, of course, of great importance in assessing the needs of the patient. Then it's the municipality that, based on an overall assessment, gives the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1121	Thank you again for your answer. I am trying to understand what is the ambition of the Council of State and the government when investigating a statutory right for the period of introduction. What the Council of State says is that you should have the right to the necessary health care in the municipalities, and that the municipalities should provide it, as it stands in the current legislation. It states that municipalities should provide the necessary health and care services, etc., with which the Council of State is certainly familiar. I thought it was a different approach, where more fundamental care would be taken to ensure that the patient's interests and health needs are cared for regardless of whether there are economic, budgetary and discretionary assessments in the municipalities, and where there are reasons to try more measures – at home, etc. – but where there are really budgetary reasons. I thought one would aim for a more basic assurance of the patient's needs, and then the doctors' recommendation has to weigh in, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1128	The description given by the representative of the intention behind the proposal, and what that government intends to do, is quite correct. It is in order to strengthen the rights and legal certainty of individuals in order to have good care and care. But I do not agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, that the only answer to this is to leave the decision-making authority to the decision-maker, because this has to be seen in a slightly larger context. How this is going to be done, I'm going to come back to Stortinget somehow. I'm not going to think out loud here from the pulpit in a question hour – we're going to come back to that. Our intention is to establish a statutory right to the care and care of the people and patients that strengthens the legal security of their citizens and patients in relation to the municipality, so that they are more assured of a good professional offer. The way it's going to be done, the device on it, I'm going to come back to Stortinget with in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1137	This question, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Defence, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1140	‘ABC News wrote last Saturday, 17 January, that the Russian Embassy last year asked for help to lift four dead war heroes from a plane wreck in the sea outside Berlevåg. Norwegian authorities have now declined the call-up. At the same time, the government has refused the request to conduct a joint Russian-Norwegian memorial ceremony on the North Fleet Marines who died during World War II. At what level have the requests been evaluated, and why has Russia rejected its requests?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1147	I understand very well that this matter arouses the commitment of many, especially in Finnmark. It's a common desire to engage Russia, but right now we're not in a normal situation with regard to the relationship with Russia. In October 2014, the Defence Staff received two requests from the Russian Embassy. Norwegian assistance was requested to organise search operations to search for a flight outside Berlevåg and to travel a memorial and carry out a Norwegian-Russian ceremony to honor failed Marines from the North Fleet. The requests were sent to the Defence Staff. It was considered that a positive response would involve military cooperation between Russia and Norway. The government decided before Christmas to suspend the bilateral military cooperation with Russia in 2015. It was therefore not considered appropriate to initiate new military cooperation projects. The decision was taken in the Ministry of Defence and was notified to the Russian Embassy in the form of a letter from the Defence Staff in December. In the debate on the matter so far, there has been a great deal of focus on raising the plane. I would like to stress that before this can become a reality, extensive searches must be carried out to see if it is possible to locate the wreck. After so long this is likely to be difficult. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the outer part of the Tanafjord was thoroughly investigated following the Mehamn accident in 1982. If the plane had remained intact, it would most likely have been found. However, we will not rule out that it might be appropriate for Norwegian authorities to make new searches in this area in the future. On the question of a memorial and a Norwegian-Russian memorial ceremony to honor the marine soldiers who fell during the war, we marked in October 2014, together with Russia, the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Finnmark. The King, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs, were present. This was an important occasion to honor the Russian war veterans and showed that we have not forgotten the great sacrifice made on the Russian side during the war. And once again, I understand that these things are excite. However, it is our opinion that it is not time to meet these requests now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1164	I thank you for your answer. The press guard in the Ministry of Defence, Marita Isaksen Wangberg, has referred to uroa in Ukraine and Russia’s international lawless annexation of Crimea as a reason for the refusal. In the Russian Embassy, however, one has perceived that there are economic considerations behind the negative answer. How has the Russian press attaché got this impression?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1171	It'll be a little hard for me to wonder how the Russian press attaché has got a certain impression. I can really just refer to my answer, namely that Norwegian assistance was requested to organise search operations to search for a flight wreck, and that it was sent to the Defence Staff, and that it was based on the assessment that a positive response would involve military cooperation between Russia and Norway. Given the current situation, as a result of the situation in Ukraine, it was not in line with the government’s decision to suspend bilateral military cooperation with Russia in 2015. So that's the government's reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1176	I thank you again for the answer, and I note that I may not have received an additional answer to parts of my main question about the level of the requests that have been evaluated. But I want to move on and ask if this means a military project. The government has repeatedly said that people-to-people cooperation and cooperation in different areas of the north are important to continue, despite the special situation that has arisen between Russia and Norway and other countries. Then a question can be asked by people in Finnmark, for example. Kurt Wikan and Hans Hatle, who have arranged a protest marking at the Russian Monument, saying that it is far from Oslo to the Church. Then a question has to be asked: can't this also be seen as a people-to-people cooperation – as part of it? And is this rejection in line with the objective of continuing this kind of cooperation with Russia, in the situation we are up against?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1187	All the time the requests were sent to the Defence Staff, it is natural to deal with them in line with that. So again, I just want to stress that we haven't ruled out that it might be relevant for Norwegian authorities to make new searches in the area in question in the future. I also have a great understanding of the local commitment that has been expressed in the matter. This is precisely due to the common history we have with Russia, not least the experiences of the war and the important role played by Russian soldiers, especially in Finnmark – and the liberation of Finnmark – during the war. The question of the use of civil and, where appropriate, private actors to carry out a search has not been considered relevant because the request was addressed directly to the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1196	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-28.ana.ud2233e1209	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
