ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e26	The requested alternate of the Finnmark County, Ingelill Olsen, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Elin Rodum Agdestein, Pål Farstad, Sylvi Graham, Ruth Grung, Line Henriette Hemdal, Tom E. B. Holthe, Hans Andreas Limi, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Helge Orten, Geir S. Tuskedal and Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen on leave from 27 January to 29 January – all to participate in the study of representatives in Brussels from the representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen, Frank J. Jensen, Jenny Klinge and Morten Wold on leave from 27 January to 29 January – all to participate in the division of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For Akershus County: Thore Vestby, Kjartan Berland and Anette C. Elseth For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brattaas and Gerd Eli Berge For the county of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen For More and Romesdal counties: Arnulf Goksøir, Geir Inge Lien and Britt Giske Andersen For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For the North Trondelag County: Gunnar Viken Toril Aarbergsbotten For Vestfold County: Ellen Eriksen For Eastfold County: Knut Espeland
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e153	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e156	On behalf of Olaug V. Bollestad, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on measures to combat violence against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e161	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e173	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e180	We are all horrified by the horrific terrorist attacks in France last week. We feel for those who have lost theirs and are affected, and stand together against violent extremists no matter what ideology or religion they may confess to. We gather in defense of human rights and freedom of expression as carriers in our open and free societies. The fight against extremism will be with us for a long time in the future and must be fought on several fronts, primarily through attitudes and prevention in society, but also with firm security. The Labour Party is confident that the government will do a conscientious job when it implements risk mitigation measures. We need a strong police force and a competent security service that protects the population, and fights and limits the threats of violence and terrorism. This also requires extensive international police cooperation. The Government of Stoltenberg ensured Norwegian participation in EU police cooperation, the Prüm Agreement. This gives Norwegian police the opportunity to search the EU countries’ DNA, fingerprint and motor vehicle registers in their investigations. The fight against organised crime was reinforced and an agreement was reached with the EU on the extradition of offenders. I noticed that the Prime Minister had conversations about this cooperation when she was in Paris recently. International cooperation in the field of justice and preparedness has developed and, following the terrorist attacks in France, EU Justice and Home Affairs Ministers have called for a debate on stricter border control and better exchange of information. My question is therefore: how will the Norwegian Government contribute to enhanced police cooperation with EU countries in the coming period? And does the Prime Minister think that there is a need for stricter border controls in and out of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e193	Let me begin by joining in the initial remarks that Jonas Gahr Støre made here. I think we're all deeply shocked by what happened in Paris, but also deeply moved by the reaction, by the mobilization. Fortunately, in this round we have also seen less of the kind of confrontational aftereffects that we have sometimes seen in the past, related to attacks and actions in Europe. Then we all have to hope that we can cope with what is both about building and mobilizing cohesion in our societies towards extreme actions, regardless of which side, so that this does not end up with reactions to each other. We also need to work on the long-term work to prevent extremism from growing, prevent the exchange and emigration of foreign fighters from increasing, and on the contrary, we are able to reintegrate them and limit the impact of what we have seen so far. One of the pillars of international cooperation. As a result, much is currently being done in connection with the exchange of information. It's important that our intelligence agencies have cooperation, too much of what's happening in Syria and Iraq, and to follow who's there is an important job for them. It is important that our police authorities have good cooperation, with a background on who are at risk, how the networks are organised, and who gives different impulses to each other. It is also important that we have protection in our own country to ensure ourselves against what we also see has been some of the terror picture: actions that may not be organized from the outside, but inspired by those calls. Then I believe that we should look at all the measures. It is possible that even more restrictions on movements across borders are one answer to that, and I do not reject any of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e202	The Dutch Government put forward a plan to combat jihadism and radicalisation in the autumn, one of which was to deprive people there is reason to suspect that they would travel to conflict areas to join extreme extremist groups. The German government recently presented a legislative proposal that allows for the withdrawal of the ID cards of potential foreign fighters. Also in Canada, potential foreign fighters are deprived of their travel documents, including those who have already travelled to Syria to join extremist groups. We read that according to PST, about 70 people from Norway must have traveled to Syria as so-called foreign warriors. This raises the threat to Norway and Norwegian interests. I agree with the assessments made by the Prime Minister in the overall approach, but my question now is: Will the government consider tightening up the law that can open up to depriving travel documents of persons suspected by Norway of going to conflict areas to engage in acts of war?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e209	It is allowed to do so in Norway as of today. It is possible to do so, but political authorities do not determine coercive reactions against individuals, for example. And that's why I want to subtract. It will be the police authority – it is the police that have to assess this. Of course, we need to have a discussion about identifying this at an early enough time. In addition, the government has consulted a proposal that contributes to the further criminalisation of travel and participation. Now we've got the hearing opinions, we're working on that question and we're going to come back to the Stortinget with the orientations related to it. It will, of course, also give greater opportunities to have a legal basis to say that someone wants to participate in something that is illegal, so that they can be held back. It is important that we go through this thoroughly, and I have recorded that the head of the Justice Committee not too long ago announced that the government would go down in a defeat in connection with this. I hope that the Labour Party has an open attitude to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e216	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e219	The Workers' Party will be involved in discussions on how to prevent the North from going to Syria as foreign warriors, and also look at sanctions for those who are withdrawing and possibly coming back. As has been mentioned, in the last two years, nearly 70 Northmen have gone to Syria as foreign warriors. Some of them never return, others return. Some of these may have committed or contributed to acts of terrorism in Syria; they may have received training in terrorist acts or may have recruited and been active in a terrorist organisation. This is prohibited under Norwegian law. For the police, these are difficult issues to investigate, because actions have been committed in another country, in an unbridled situation. At the same time, it is important that those who leave Norway to become foreign fighters experience that this has consequences for them. What will the Prime Minister do to enable the police to bring criminal proceedings against Norwegian foreign fighters returning?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e226	After all, the government has already taken significant measures related to this, not least by strengthening the PST budget and therefore their ability to follow people. One discussion that has been going on over several years is how many you can actually follow. That's a very demanding question. So we've significantly increased the budgets of PST in order to follow up and investigate, and so does it. It is certain that the PST has a systematic job for all those returning, where they are assessed on the basis of the risk involved. Different measures will be taken — including those put under purely investigation and targeted — to address these issues. Then it is important that we work on prevention in Norway. Therefore, on 10 June 2014, the government promoted an action plan to prevent extremism. It is now systematically working around the larger municipalities in the country to mobilise and strengthen that work. We're doing a direct job from the Prime Minister's office to ensure that this happens. There are many municipalities that have a very good tradition of working to create inclusion and other, and there are new groups, but there are many of the old and good methods that are now being worked on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e233	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e236	First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the way she has fronted Norway in the terrible situation we have seen in France. With the way in which the country was affected, with many different terrorist attacks at the same time and a great fear, it is important that we show our sympathy in Norway, and I am very grateful that the Prime Minister went to Paris. I am also very pleased that the Prime Minister has so clearly stood up for the central human rights, as freedom of expression. In the debate on how to deal with terror in the future, it is important all the time to think about how to prevent it. There, I believe, the government – also in cooperation with the supporting parties the Christian People's Party and the Left – has done a lot of good work in the budget. As the Prime Minister pointed out, we have strengthened the PST, but also the municipal work. Now there is an international debate. How are we going to help have the freedom to be able to close borders? How are we going to monitor, have good enough intelligence, while respecting privacy? What is the government's approach to the debates to contribute to the international debates that are now taking place in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e246	As Schengen members, it is clear that it is absolutely essential for us, when we have open borders between Schengen countries, that we have extremely good police cooperation linked to it, which enables us to follow individuals, that we have images of which organisations and with whom we cooperate, that we have police methods that enable us to follow this too, so that we can protect our society. The question of e.g. closing borders is the question: are we looking to act like we're doing something, or are we looking to actually do something? I believe that the most important thing we do is intelligence and police cooperation, so that we follow people, groups and other things. It is difficult to say that with a completely random, stricter control of borders, you have to find out who are terrorists, if you don't know who can be. You have to know who you're looking for in advance, and that's the most important work we do. Our entrance is that Norway will participate in this work. We know that people are inspired across borders, we know that it is important to prevent cases in other countries in order also to prevent them from infecting Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e253	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e256	The debate on security and preparedness in the wake of what happened in France is going to be important, and we will probably have many discussions in the United Kingdom about it in the future. It is also true, as the questioner was concerned about, that EU countries are now discussing enhanced police cooperation and also strengthened border control, and it is natural that Norway should follow that debate very closely. The question of security is also about how to organise, not least, the domestic police. It is also important for preparedness and security. Together with the Left, the government is now planning to centralize the Norwegian police. My question then is: how does the Prime Minister think that a closure of almost 40 pst. by the services of the Norwegian police and a longer response time for the police in the districts than in the central districts is a good contribution to improving the safety of all citizens in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e263	The government is working on the follow-up to the report of the 22nd July Commission and the Police Analysis, which was carried out subsequently. They showed the weaknesses that we had in terms of the ability to respond to terror, to get to the place quickly enough. It also means that we need to strengthen the police and have a more robust police force. It doesn't mean a centralisation of the police, but it means a police force as ability, when the crisis is there, to react quickly and deal with several cases at once. The background to police reform is inter alia: the experience of the largest terrorist attack in Norway. It showed that we needed more robust devices. It showed that we had PSAPs that did not succeed when something big happened. It showed that we were not well organized enough – that is the background for the police reform we are putting forward. Then I would say that the description of the centralization, the description of the cuts, given by the representative, I am not in favour. We haven't done our job, we haven't done our job, but we're looking at getting a bigger, robust police force, the ability to deal with serious crime, but with a great deal of close-up police, because prevention also means that the police have to be present locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e270	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e273	I want to go back to the main question. If you're recruited and willing to go to war, for example. In Syria, perhaps one of the worst places on earth right now, the threat of a Norwegian prison stay may not be what stops you. To stop recruitment to extreme environments we have a lot of knowledge about. The mechanism is exactly the same, whether it is for nynazists, or it is for extremists on the Muslim side. Can we use the skills we have to prevent the alienation that many people feel -- that they're outside society, that they're not being included, the constant stabbings that are against the Muslim people in general? How are we going to be able to create an inclusive society where this alienation is not felt by many young people? Because what happens to the extremes here is very classic. We've seen it before -- in the 1980s, for example, with neo-Nazis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e280	It is that in the analyses made by who has travelled, many of them are looking for a group to belong to. We also see from several other countries that some of the people who have traveled have been known by the police in the past – not because of jihadistic tendencies, but because of peer participation, because of a criminal racetrack. They then experience a new meaning in life in the face of a religion, or a distorted variant of a religion. I agree that there are many of the same mechanisms, but I want to stress that it's not just this image; there's also a significant number of intellectuals among them, who are well educated in our society, and who are still blinded by an ideology. So we can't just look at it. But many of those who have traveled have that background. That's why we have to work on more levels. We have to work on mobilizing the counter-crime in our own culture, in our own religion. We have to work with the counterclaims locally, and we are now doing this through extensive work to mobilise the municipalities in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e287	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e290	The threat of terrorists and extremists comes from all sides, and some of them wear religious clothes as well. They come from within, we have experience in Norway, and they can cross borders. This means that what we do in Norway is also important, as the representative Skei Grande was just about to say. What the EU countries have now done is to encourage the creation of more exit programmes. In Norway, we have experience with it from the neo-Nazis, but it becomes very easy projects, that is, you do a little, and then you put it down. Now there's someone running such projects, I know that someone has even been to the Gardermoen and turned someone to Syria from there. So this is important work, and we have to do more of that, and it has to be permanent. Can the Prime Minister promise that the government will ensure better funding and permanent funding for the exit programmes we know we will need in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e295	One of the things that happens, when it's now arranged to meet around 30 different municipalities in Norway, with community municipalities and others, who are together about this, is that we look at what resources we have, how we can work, and what we need to fill and resources. Some of it is that there are some areas in the country that have worked on this before, which can therefore contribute with competence. For example, in parts of Oslo, especially those who have worked in youth work and child labour in Søndre Nordstrand, they are very skilled at this. They've worked very hard on it because of their experience with the Nynazist environments, but also the trend in the criminal gangs, which have some of the same challenges. These can contribute to information. This means that there are some organisations that can be connected. What's the challenge this time is that while it was often a little bit more geographically concentrated, it has raised foreign warriors from almost the whole country. This means that those who can meet and follow are the rootstock of each community. Then you have to make sure that we get the skills to them, and that's part of the analysis that we're now coming up with after we're doing this series of meetings around.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e302	Then we move on to the next main question. Fire drills will then be carried out. [[The fire alarm goes off]] The meeting will be interrupted. Calls will be made for the continuation of the meeting when the fire drill is over – it will be in 20-25 minutes. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. Ten, twenty-three. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. Ten-four-four-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e321	Then we continue the meeting. Hans Olav Syversen will now be allowed to ask his question as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e324	We just got a text message that the exercise had ended, and thanks for the participation. I thank you on behalf of the representatives for being able to participate! It may not have been quite uneven that the alarm went off. My question concerns the sending of long-term asylum children. I must honestly say that this seems to me to be becoming a very sad matter in itself, but I can't help saying that I think it's becoming a difficult matter in the relationship between government and the Christian People's Party and the Left. What Bergen’s Official Journal published yesterday, in effect, means that the agreement concluded by the Left and Christian People’s Party with the government is undermined and has become it over time. The result of this is also the incomprehensible fact that this government now thinks it is more appropriate to have criminal asylum seekers in this country while sending out long-term asylum children. My question is briefly: Is this the work of the Minister of Justice alone, or is there any government behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e335	I read Bergen's magazine case yesterday, and I do not think that was the basis for the published Bergen's Official Journal in the figures they had available. The 2014 budget set targets for the number of groups to be transported. The measure was 7,100 total. There were 1,900 former asylum seekers, and the rest were supposed to be from other groups, among others. those who have been expelled for criminal offences. It is so, as far as I understand the data available now, that more have been sent within the group of persons with a non-asyl background than persons with an asylum background. With regard to the main issue of long-term children, I think it is difficult to stand up and talk about these issues at the same time as the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has called for a hearing on the matter. I believe that a principle of soundness of mind in the treatment of the Storting must be that, when a case has been brought before the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the questions of what has happened must be taken up in the hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. It is difficult for a Prime Minister to provide new information here at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e346	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is part of the Stortinget, and it is the Stortinget who also asks the Prime Minister here and now. To what was referred by the Prime Minister, I have to say that it is difficult to understand that interpretation – if it is not an evasive manoeuvre. I quote from what the Ministry of Justice has written to the POD, where it is first written that ‘number of returns in the field of asylum have been too weak’. It was March 12. Then you keep going on June 6th that a deficit of 500 returns is not satisfactory. Nobody's going to tell me that the Justice Department doesn't know the consequences of those kind of messages. It's only one consequence, it's that you take care to send them out it's easy to send out, and leave out working on the issues that are difficult to get back on. Does the Prime Minister disagree with such an understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e355	Our opinion is that there has not been a depriorization of the broadcast of criminals. As of 1 December, 2,186 people were subjected to a criminal reaction – that is 30 pst. by those who have been sent, who have been charged with it. Compared to the figures also included in the budget base adopted by the Stortinget, it has been assumed that 1900 with an asylum background will be transported during 2014. That target was not reached by 1 December. So it's just ten pst. of the total number of children dispatched. In our opinion, it is still the case that a significant number of criminals and people have broken the foreign law and other rules without a criminal criminal criminal reaction related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e360	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Geir S. Tuskedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e363	Behind a political will and the practices we have seen in the transport and prioritisation of families with children, there is a bureaucracy and a concrete procedure. The UNHCR announced in August 2013 that it would be necessary to look at issues relating to Afghanistan, and they made a recommendation. Then Landinfo changes only ten months later, and one year afterwards, UDI writes a proposal for a new instruction to the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry of Justice does not respond to it with internal refugees without networks and families with children until two months pass. It is seen that the target should be increased, and this is happening in the meantime. I'm sitting here with the case papers. For the time being, the question that UDI raises has not been answered, which is very serious. I see that it's been almost two years since we got information from the United Nations, and nothing has been done. Does the Prime Minister consider such bureaucracy and practice to be worthy of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e372	As regards the question of when people are being transported, this happens when the complaint procedure has been completed. This means that UNE’s treatment is essential for resuming or awaiting cases. UNE has practised not to send people back on domestic flight. There has been a review in this process of not sending back – after the question of persons in the field of internal migration came up – because UNE has had this as a practical basis. These assessments are primarily made by the foreign government itself. One might well discuss whether the UDI should have received a better response faster from the Department, but it is that the practice is determined by UNE's practice, and it has been that people are not returned to Afghanistan based on the internal refugee question, so practice has been in line with what UDI has asked the Ministry of Justice to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e379	Helga Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e382	The starting point for the round we have now is that the Minister of Justice said in Stortinget that the policy for who was to be sent out had changed, and that long-term children were no longer to be given priority for posting. The fundamental question is why more long-term asylum children were still sent out in 2014 than in 2013. I have every respect for the process that is now taking place in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The Prime Minister is very familiar not to meet there, and I would therefore like to take the opportunity to ask if the Prime Minister is sticking to what was her explanation before Christmas, namely that the lack of coherence between pronounced policy and practice was due to poor management in the Police Directorate, and that it is therefore the underlying agencies that are responsible for what has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e390	I wish that the representative Helga Pedersen had been correct in rendering the record from the discussion during the oral Question Time last time this was up. I was asked specific questions, and I specifically replied that the fact that a clear lead in a letter of assignment to the Police Directorate is not passed on in the further instructions they give down is poor management – not in general and not as the description Helga Pedersen now gives, but precisely that one cannot pass on an allocation letter downwards in the other departments, is, of course, poor management, and that is also bad management. The representative Pedersen is trying to make this a bigger question than that. No, it is not, but precisely the fact that the steering signals given in writing from a department are not passed down to the underlying offices from the directorate that gets them is something we can't have politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e395	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e398	Let me quote what the Prime Minister said in the Question Time on December 3. The Prime Minister was asked by the representative Helga Pedersen whether the government had governance with underlying agencies in the foreign field. Then the Prime Minister said: ‘I believe that it is an example of poor management when it has not been possible to take the political guidance signals that have come to a directorate in writing and pass them on in the pen. This means that they have to go through their routines to follow up just this. [[...]] But I don't think that on the basis of this case there's any reason to assume that you don't have a good overview or good control. [[...]] When you look at it in relation to what the department has clearly known, and also to the relationship between the sending of criminals and children who are asylum seekers, you have to ask: how does the Prime Minister think that these statements stand today, after what has happened in the last month?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e410	I think we're going to take the whole question and the whole answer. It was then asked if one had control of the emergency area or other areas, and I said that on the basis of this, it could not be said that there is no control over the other areas – related to preparedness and other matters. I believe it is wrong when an underlying agency does not send a written instruction on how to make priorities, that they do not get what has been written about it. I will assume that Stortinget believes that the underlying offices should actually implement when a written instruction has been given. So I believe that there is no reason to say that you do not have control in a number of other areas, which was a Polish question asked in the Questionnaire the last time. I believe that there is now a basis for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to review these questions and to respond to the priorities that have been set. We made a change to the letter of assignment – not because families with children or long-term children were not to be sent out, because we have not made any changes to it – but it should not be a specific emphasis on the fact that long-term children were a priority group to be sent out. But families with children would include, among other things: sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e419	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e422	Being a Council of State is not an distinction; it is an office where you have to manage a majority. The majority that this government is set to manage in this area should implement two changes compared to the previous government. One was to make sure that several of the criminals who walked in an ever-changing loop around, especially in this town, were to be thrown out faster, and then children who have been here for a long time would be allowed to stay. That was the tipping point, that was the agreement, that was the change in policy in relation to the red-green ones. But then it seems that some parts of that agreement have been implemented with great enthusiasm, until a certain point, where suddenly numbers were more important than content again. That's exactly what we were going to change from the red-green policy, that there was actually someone that was important to get out, and someone that it was right to leave out. Does the Prime Minister realize that government councils must be guided by it, and not as if they have been given their job as a distinction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e429	A prime minister always understands that we are based on a majority in the Stortinget, and we have an agreement on matters. The consensus we had was that we should have a one-off solution that would help to give you a stay to a part that was in Norway, which had been here for a long time, where they would apply for it according to the given criteria. That one-off solution was in place in July last year, and the cases were dealt with after that. Then we agreed that we should have a permanent change that placed greater emphasis on what we defined as child-care considerations, which turned out to be a concept that, in common between the four parties, was interpreted differently with the hearing bodies than we had intended to do. That is why we have created a new consensus with other formulations and other directions in the final solution. I believe that we have followed up on what has been the consensus, but it has been difficult jus, and it has taken time to get it in place, among other things. because it is important to arrive at the point of balance where it is ensured that what is regulated does not, in practice, work against its purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e436	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e439	When the Foreign Office of the Police was going to target their targets, they sent the Ministry of Justice information about who they could send out, and these were largely families of children from Afghanistan and Nigeria. They say that there are a large number of Afghan families around the receptions, which have only now become possible to return, and that Afghans have one common feature: they are families with children without a residence permit, and they are long-term. This has provided the basis for the priorities that the government has clearly followed. At the same time, it is known that the Foreign Affairs Directorate sent proposals for a change of practice to the Ministry of Justice on 1 July 2014 to stop sending children’s families to Afghanistan for internal migration. Now I hear the Prime Minister says it hasn't happened. There remains to be seen, but my question is: Has the government really taken a position on this priority and decided to send more families of children to Afghanistan, as the Ministry of Justice has been told?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e446	That's how we got an opening for return to Afghanistan and Nigeria during this year. Then, of course, this opening has been used to return families who have been refused their asylum application, who have been refused their complaint, and who are ready to be returned. In the last few years, it has not been possible to return to these two countries under compulsion. It's now possible, and that's why you've done it. It is not a matter of priority; it is a question of whether the possibility has actually been there to implement a legitimate decision to return them. The information we're sitting on, and the review of issues that have been, on return to Afghanistan, is based on the fact that there should not be any children's families returned on internal migration. It has been UNE's practice that these should not be sent out, because it has just been stressed that this will not be safe if there is a question of internal migration on the basis of where to return.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e451	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e455	Councillor Höie gave the hospital speech his 7th January. Then he presented the patients' health care. She needs to be safer and better. The Council of State called for an important debate on which hospital to provide emergency surgery. State Council Höie believes that emergency surgery requires a patient base of 60,000-80,000. Hospitals with a patient base of less than 20000–30000 have to be laid down. Thus, the government’s model for patients’ healthcare is proving to be a strong centralisation of acute health services, where half of Norwegian hospitals will lose or be put down surgically, despite the fact that patients themselves, according to their National Knowledge Centre reviews, are very pleased with their local hospital provision. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister in agreement with the Council of State Höie's view on where emergency surgery is going for years to develop patients' health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e464	Health Minister Höie has given a speech where he has outlined three different models of how the hospital structure of the future can be – for debate, for discussion – without having taken a position on any of them. This is based on the work to be concluded that, in the course of this year, we will have a new national health plan, including: shall define more clearly what the hospital structure will be like in the future. It is based on the various professional premises, with one overall objective, namely that we should do something about what is a challenge in the Norwegian health system. The challenge is that many people wait too long for treatment. The second challenge is that quality is too varied. We need to raise the quality and ensure that more people get the best and highest quality that the Norwegian healthcare system can offer, so that we can both survive and get a better functioning health afterwards. There are three different models proposed. The government has not taken a decision on them, but one of the premises for discussion is that one of the models, among others. indicates 60000-80000 as a large enough population base for acute surgery. It's based on some professional assessments, but this isn't a sacred number. It has been assessed on the basis of what it takes to provide sufficient training in the various fields, to have a broad enough competence and to have enough people present. For example: Discussed the professional process before the merger in Oslo, the professionals then recommended a population base of 100 000 for emergency surgery, but in our opinion it would be a far too high figure in a country with as large a geographical spread as we have. Now we've invited you to a discussion about these three different models. One of the models isn't moving the surgical emergency function, but here you have to open your eyes also see the probability of greater variation in quality. That some hospitals would then have a lower offer is one of the consequences of maintaining both internal and surgical emergency functions in all hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e475	The Prime Minister argues that the Council of State Höie has not taken a decision and that the government has not taken a decision, but the model where the emergency surgery is retained, you refer to the Council of State as a pollinator, which is not the right thing to do. I remind the Prime Minister, when one now calls for a strong centralisation, the purpose paragraph of the Health Business Act: «The purpose of health undertakings is to provide good and equivalent specialist health services to all those who need it when they need it, irrespective of age, sex, place of residence, economy and ethnic background, as well as to facilitate research and education.» My question, based on what has been said, is: Has the government gone away from the goal of having a hospital offer with equivalent specialist health services to everyone, regardless of their place of residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e485	On the contrary – I believe that this discussion raises the question of how we get an equivalent service offer in healthcare. Equivalence has to be about the quality of those services, that no matter where you live in the country, you're going to have the best opportunity, the latest technology. Then there's something to say about the hospital structure, and which hospital you're going to go to first. We have to take that over. There will be more decentralisation of many hospital services in the years to come. Because of the age composition, internal medicine will be an even greater function. There will be many hospitals, there will be a great basis for it, because this is one of the things that should be close to people when they have to go to hospital. So there will be specialized functions, where getting an equivalent offer will be about the fact that the surgeon or the doctor who treats you is actually trained enough to have as good results as others, that they know the last drug, that they give good enough quality. The quality perspective of this government on the development of health care concerns equivalent healthcare throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e490	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e493	If only a person were to rely on population numbers and set a limit between 60,000 and 80,000 and do not consider geography at all in a country like Norway, it would mean a massive cessation of emergency functions and subsequently also hospitals. For example, it will. means that hospitals like Voss and Stord – and Namsos in my own county – will not have the right to life. So the Prime Minister says that the government has not taken a stand on it, but it is still the case that the Secretary of State was out there and fired fire in the Eastland yesterday, and assured that the Tynset would be exempted from the 60,000-80,000 rating, because on Tynset they had to make exceptions precisely because of geography. The State Secretary said: «We must not generalise and Tynset is so far away from other hospitals [[...]] It's very good that you think this way about Tynset, but why isn't it that you can also think of other hospitals like this, like this. the hospital to which I have a relationship, namely Namso's North-Trøndelag hospital, which has exactly the same challenge with long distances to other hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e503	The government has promoted three different models for discussion. So we haven't taken a decision on the individual models, but there is a lot of uncertainty, among other things. because the centre party believes that we have taken a stand on the different models and therefore takes a lot of time to whip up uncertainties outside of people. I think it might be a good idea that we now hear the answers from the Center Party on how to ensure equivalent services, good enough quality, good enough staffing at the hospitals and the emergency response to be there – that it is not a Danish on the rear guard who has worked maximum time in his home country and has been picked up to do the job there. We also have to talk about what quality we give. The most important thing we do in our hospital, in our health care, is actually good quality for everyone who needs treatment. We know that there's often a difference; we look at the numbers that there's a difference between how good you are. There is a need for practice and training. Then we have to dry out taking these discussions without creating all that fear, and the most important thing we do is to see that there will be a lot of hospital services locally because the changes in the population do it this way. There'll be more internal medicine around, but we need to have the quality of the specialized functions. If we don't sacrifice patients for other values, and I actually don't think we should.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e510	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e513	It's a good rule that we're going to decentralize what we know about services and centralize what we have to do. Of course, there are many special services to be centralised into a few hospitals. But the speech that the Minister of Health gave caused much anxiety and much fear, for he spoke of a population of 60 000–80 000 inhabitants as the basis for a local hospital. In the ultimate consequence, it could mean that Finnmark County would stand without a hospital. It is not only the steady man and woman who have reacted, but also Health North. The director went out and said he was worried, because this would completely reverse the thinking that you have had in the north about both a decentralised hospital structure and good quality – through cooperation, hospitation and through functional distribution you can get to it. Will the Prime Minister now, on behalf of the Government, clarify this and clean it up, so that we do not have to go around and be concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e520	It's always like when we invite to an open discussion about the premises for what we're going to do, and about different models, there will be some people who think that change and asking questions and inviting them to this debate can create some sort of concern. There is also always room for political speculation on the way to raising that concern among people. But if we want a better health care in the future, if we provide equivalent services, we also need to talk about what it is that makes us get the best services for people, wherever they live. It's about the skills you have. Geography, of course, counts. Therefore, we have been quite clear that we do not see any major changes in the offer, for example. in Finnmark, because the distances are large. But we need other compensation measures to ensure that the quality is good enough, and that those in the emergency room there can actually handle and treat. That's why it's always going to be like that, for example. in Finnmark, there will be more use of air ambulances and other devices to transport the most difficult cases more quickly. It's part of the priorities that are being done at the same time. But I had hoped that we could get an open and good debate and not just premise. [[President clubs]] There will be no large-scale centralization, there will be a high-quality health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e529	That's it. Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e535	Security to get help — right help at the right time, when you need it — is a central need for people most. Norway is a long-distance country and a diverse country, and everyone sitting here knows that we can't have a hospital on every nose. Nevertheless, we know that we need a prehospital service – it is important both in the air, on water and on land. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister and the Government ensure that an emergency response is at the bottom of a health and hospital plan? Otherwise, the health and health plan will not be credible, if we don't know anything about the response time, about the quality and capacity of the air ambulance, and about the kind of skills set by doctors and ambulance services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e542	It is very important to see the prehospital services in the context of emergency preparedness for the rest. The first person to come to help is a qualified person in a sick car or a helicopter, is probably what contributes most to survival in the most acute cases. Knowing that you're coming to the right hospital, with the right expertise, when something serious has happened, is also important. They're the ones who make the first decisions. The conversation with the alarm centre and the feedback is incredibly important. This is why this is a natural part of the development of emergency services in Norway in the future, that we also look at what they offer. Then we still need to have a discussion about hospitals, even though the prehospital services are more focused, because you also need to have good hospital services in the hospital you get. But we'll make sure that this is also part of what we have to plan for. The exact details we have to get back to, and we're going to have a good discussion. There are likely to be different criteria in different parts of the country, due to distance and due to the local hospital concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e549	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e552	The hospital structure in Norway is largely from industrial travel time in the early 1900s and is marked by the needs of the time. We have an Oslo University Hospital that is still on Windows XP. I guess that's about. Ten years ago, most people left it. I record that someone will fight hard to maintain such a structure and level of ICT, but there is a great need for investment in ICT equipment, and I also believe that this is an important part of the debate on a national hospital plan. How will the Prime Minister ensure that the hospital sector in Norway takes a quantum leap and is not in 2001 versions but in 2020 versions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e559	It is in frontier countries for the content of the main question, but the Prime Minister will be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e562	I believe that in Norway there is a broad consensus that ICT systems in the health sector are too poor. We have several national audit reports that have been very clear that they are too bad. We know that it means a lot to time use – instead of having time to be close to patients and provide treatment, ICT challenges actually create huge time thieves. We have a very important goal, for example. this with one resident – one journal: that healthcare professionals should have access to the relevant information, and that regardless of where the patient has been investigated or has been treated in the past, we should have confidence that the information is good. So we announced in January a year ago an overall review of the organisation of ICT in the health and care sector. We believe that there is a need for much stronger and clearer governance – not more bureaucracy, but better organisation and a much larger national response to this. The Health Directorate is now considering the establishment of its own Health-ICT management body. There are some who have promoted criticism related to this, but we believe that it is one of the approaches that will help us get a more national ICT approach in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e571	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e574	The Prime Minister spoke extensively about staff in the health sector in his New Year's speech, and we all agree that the heroes of health care are making an important effort in people's lives – and for people's lives – every single day. Nevertheless, despite fine words, it may seem that the government has little confidence in the assessments made just by health care workers at local hospitals around the country. A gynecologist said to me, like a heart attack, here in the daytime, that it might look as if the government thinks that judgment is weakening parallel to the distance to Oslo, for everyone knows that, for example, Fire damage shall be brought to Bergen, all of whom know which line to operate on. Therefore, my question today is whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that it is not only a safe and equivalent but also an accessible hospital service for the whole country, and whether there is any plan for decentralisation of tasks and functions, rather than just centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e583	It is that there will be more decentralisation of hospital services in the coming years, simply because new methods, more technology and others will make it easier to provide, among other things. outpatient assistance. It is about population changes, because with several older people, local demand for certain types of treatment and help will also be higher. It means, in my opinion, that one will probably get as much of a picture of a decentralised healthcare system as a centralised healthcare system in the years to come. But then there's some important things we have to dry out talking about. It's that there are quality differences in our health care system. It's about being well-trained in some areas, it's about being well up-to-date with knowledge, it's about having to do it several times in some areas to make a real success, in order for it really to be an opportunity for survival. Therefore, it is incredibly important to follow the development of quality in the health care system. I believe that it is very well understood locally, and the systems should be in place so that they can be used well locally, but there will be many decentralised services in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e592	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e595	Just a week ago, the Minister of Justice gave a statement on Norway’s security against terrorism. When I went down from the pulpit to my desk after my post, the first message about what had happened in Paris was there – what was a targeted attack on journalists, on Jews and on French police. When countries are exposed to such attacks, it is important to have political leaders who stand up for values and exercise leadership. I'm glad the Prime Minister was in Paris, and I saw a lot of good management there as well. We talk a lot about what we're fighting against. After the event on 22 July, Prime Minister Stoltenberg said that we should contribute to more democracy and more transparency, a wording that all political Norway was very pleased with. We haven't talked so much about what we're fighting for. When we face the terror as we have done in Europe over the past week, much of the focus is on who we are fighting against, and what we are fighting against. But I thought I'd use the opportunity, when the Prime Minister is here, to ask, what are we fighting for, what is the Prime Minister going to promise as values for which we are actually willing to fight, when terror hits us that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e605	One of the most important things we have to fight for is the right to speak. Freedom of expression is a fundamental part of democracy; it is a fundamental part of our society. It's not like Norway has a perfect story in terms of freedom of expression, if we take on the glasses from 2014 and look at debates about blasphemy and other up through the years. It's always a political development. But it's an important right – the right to make your own choices as a person, no matter who you are, no matter what culture you belong to. It is still the case that girls – or boys – should not be coerced, is an important right that we must stand up to, and say that we are uncompromisingly always on the side of children in their right to make their choices in relation to their parents. With regard to the right to be heard if you feel offended: in the debate we have had now, it is important to stress that those who feel hurt also have the right to say that they feel hurt, that they have the right to say that they don't like this, this is bad, but that doesn't mean that they have the right to limit others' right to mean something and say something about it. These are important values. So I think in Western society we have some important values I want to fight for -- I shouldn't say that everyone else is going to fight for them. I mean, our society, as it is shaped -- not just based on emotional reasoning, but also on knowledge-based reasoning -- is an important part, because that's when we can have a basis for this discussion. But I accept that this is something I want to fight for and believe is important, and that everyone else not necessarily – religiously or otherwise – will justify their positions as they did in the political debate. We have important equality values in our society, we have important equality values in our society, we have important trust values in our society. The fact that Norway is a country where there is great trust in us as politicians and great trust in the institutions is one of the things I think is incredibly important to fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e616	We who can't precisely define ourselves as 'young' anymore have been involved in many of these debates. We had the debate on the caricature dispute in 2006, we had the debate on opinion responsibility after 22 July, and we now have the debate on freedom of expression. I would like to admit that I have learned a lot from the various debates, and have also developed my view of many of these fields, and I agree with the Prime Minister when she underlines the right to clear distance. I've said that I'll also give people the right to tear up the drawings they don't like, sail if it happens in front of an open camera. That's their full right. But my question is, what does the Prime Minister think we've learned? How much longer have we been brought, now that we've had three rounds where we've been discussing freedom of speech just in the last few years – how much longer have we come to lift the principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e621	I think we've come further, and I think we've done it historically over time. When we look at what you thought before was offensive, and what you thought had to be banned, we think today that it was more ridiculous episodes. Personally, I remember very well when the censorship took the Life of Brian. It was in my youth. Then, at the beginning, there were almost hidden parties to see the Life of Brian, in closed shows. Today, most channels will only send that film without us even reflecting on the fact that it should be, for example. blasphemous. I think what we're learning the most is that this is also always a kind of discussion. Because it is clear that there are some defined limits to opinions, such as: in the case of shenanigans against people or systematic racism, where there are difficult boundaries. But when I say that we're a society that has to meet statements you don't like, with objections instead of with laws and rules or with violence, it might be the most important thing we've learned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e628	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e631	Trine Skei Grande said it was a targeted attack – against journalists, against Jews and against the police. There are many who are now concerned, and it is important that Norwegian Jews are also supported, and that Norwegian Muslims who are concerned about the reaction are also followed up. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is so strongly in favour of freedom of expression, so that editors, journalists and cartoonists can make their judgements on the relevance and quality of what to put on the press, and not, on the basis of a concern for reactions. So earlier today, we have had a discussion about what we need to do to combat extreme environments, including what the police have to do to have an effective fight against the most extreme environments. But then you can get into new dilemmas. What does the Prime Minister think about how we can be effective in fighting without compromising other very fundamental values, such as privacy and developed freedoms, including free and open borders?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e638	There are many dilemmas in combating terrorism, in securing people. It's also that there can always be an unrelenting desire for information. If there's something we've learned from September 11th and other events, it's that the information scope can also be too large, that it's getting too little targeted, and that's why you can't sort. Then you get the discussion that you really knew, but you couldn't put the information together. I think it's important that we discuss what kind of instruments we have, and it might well be that we in this room will at some point disagree on some of these questions. The government has, among other things: to consult a question related to the possibilities of hiding in certain situations. There's a discussion that we have to take when it comes, but it's fundamentally about e.g. to be able to stop the communication in and out of a hostage situation, to stop the communication in a kidnapping situation. These are areas where we need to see if this is so important that it means that the police, for example. must be allowed to do so. [[President clubs]] So I look forward to many such debates, there is no fascination with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e643	Time's up. Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e648	I would like to thank the representative for a good main question and also the Prime Minister for good and reflected answers. Because there's something about the situation we're in now, about freedom of expression, but also privacy, which I think is right to reflect on. Such a situation creates fear, and it is clear that there is a need for increased surveillance of those who have returned from Syria, because they can pose a threat. But at the same time we have experience from Norwegian history that when we have felt fear, we have gone far too far in our methods. It happened to a great extent after World War II. When we think that we are going to do this by doing preventive work, and that we are going to fight terrorism by monitoring those who are exposed, but also taking into account privacy: how does the Prime Minister reflect on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e655	It is absolutely right that we have to balance privacy and terrorism-related issues very carefully – sometimes because it simply won't be targeted if you compare so much information that you drown in information, and sometimes because we have to endure some uncertainties in our society. I mean, for example. that too many restrictions on freedom of movement, too many barriers, will be difficult. If politicians, for example, should not be able to go out and meet people in normal open meetings of fear – we see completely different images from other countries around how these things are handled – and that will mean great limitations. I am concerned that we also need to see that terror changes and goes over to other arenas, and then we need to have the tools that come with it. One of the areas where we see that we want to use more is the web, because much of the radicalization happens via the web. Some of the money we spend on PST's work now in the budget is going to work against the kind of development and follow up on what's happening on radical websites, to make sure that we have good instruments to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e662	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e665	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his good answers. Freedom that is closely linked to freedom of expression is freedom of religion. Fortunately, in the debates on self-search, I do not talk too much about my youth, but it is clear that as a believer, I may have easily grasped that in order to protect my God, the state must do something, but my God is strong enough for me to avoid the state having to take responsibility for Him! But what's more important to me is to be able to express my belief that the public space has room for religion. What's interesting is that France is one of the countries that's quite upset that you can't go with a too visible cross, or a burka, etc. And we see that debate here in the country as well. What is perhaps even more serious in France is the massive flight of Jews, that they move to Israel. We also see a growing antisemitism throughout Europe – also in Norway. Can the Prime Minister also reflect a little on those values?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e675	Yeah, I mean, well, as much as there are religious people who kind of attack others, there are enough people, especially in our country, who experience being a religious person who is difficult, to get respect for the fact that you believe something, and the room for it, is hard. I think that we should also reflect well in our society, that we have become so secular that believing, leading our lives after a belief, in a way is suspicious. But it's still the case that you have to face that fight yourself, it's not the authorities that's going to do it. Antisemitism is a growing problem. It is a problem related to increased islamofophobia, but antisemitism is also going through different minorities in Norway, but also in the majority population, and we need to find good strategies to combat this. In particular, it is important to work with new generations coming to this country to ensure that they receive training in precisely what fights anti-semitism: anti-racist work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e682	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e685	The Official Journal of Bergen has thoroughly revealed that the government does not speak the truth either in terms of combating crime, or in terms of the fact that it is no longer a priority to send out the long-term children. The dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the police shows one thing: the number of forced returns was important, the asylum children were not. So this isn't about, as the class struggle writes today, that there were no criminals found, but about the fact that the priority was simply to send out the criminals. The so-called return recovery project was iced in August. What's behind that name? Well, it's typical people who are criminals, who shouldn't be here, who create problems, for example. at receptions, where there are families with children, families with children. And the result of this is that you've put on ice the project that was going to get the criminals out, while you've been sending out the families of children, so at least there's no children there anymore that they can threaten. It gave results. While the first eight months last year were sent out 25 long-term children, the number 29 was only in September. The Prime Minister was here in the persuasion debate and assured us that the long-term asylum child was no longer a priority for broadcasting. That wasn't right. SV believes that this is a terrible crime policy, it is inhumane to the long-term children, and that there is poor management of this work, the Prime Minister has already stated in the debate. But does the Prime Minister think it was right to put this project that would get the criminals out on the ice, and rather ask the PU to send out the remaining families of children, as it was actually done?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e694	I cannot add a reason for Bergen's magazine's assessment or history story about this, based on one suggestion. I don't think the Storting should do that either. There should be a hearing related to this, and I expect those questions to be asked. It was released before December 1st, last year, 2 186 people with a criminal reaction. It is a priority for this government to send out more criminals, to speed up the imposition of expulsion decisions and to speed up the deployment of criminals. It is also important to remember that what was changed in the letter of award was that one changed from the red-green government's priority of sending out long-term children's families, which were written in the letter of award, to having children's families sent out, but not having this designation of those who have remained, as a priority. The main reason why several families with children have been sent out, in total – there are far more people who have been transported out of all groups in 2014 than before, so we have returned people, expelled and sent out more than what has been done before – is the opening in Nigeria and Afghanistan that had not been there before. Then the number of children who would have been sent out, who have more than three years of residence or other, if we corrected for the two openings that came after long work from previous governments also to be able to return, would be 49. It is not because it is a major change in policy, but because it opened up an opportunity to return to two countries where it has been difficult to return to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e701	PU notes that in the case of the posting of children’s families to Afghanistan and Nigeria, no residence time has been considered related to this. This again means that the signals that the government says they have given about not prioritizing long-term children have not been followed at all. Moreover, many of these families have not had their case evaluated for many years. I see that the Minister of Justice says they have it, that it is the current legislation at the time they are sent out, that applies, but that is not right. Many of these have not had their case as a desire for transformation, and that means that the broadcast is made on the basis of the asylum decision that may have been taken four, five and six years ago. How can the government know that the families that have now been sent would not have a basis for being allowed to stay after an up-to-date assessment, even when the government has even removed funds for legal aid for these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e708	I believe that these questions should be addressed in detail at the hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. But I want to underline one thing: what was said in October was that we had changed from the red-green priority of sending out long-term children, that families of children should be given priority for broadcasting, but not to stress that it was the long-term children that the red-green government had as its priority basis. This means that families with children should also be sent out according to our priorities, and so there has been an opening for broadcasting to Nigeria and Afghanistan. Everyone has had the opportunity to apply for the one-off solution if they qualified for the one-off solution adopted on 1 July last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e715	It opens for follow-up questions – first Gina Knutson Barstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e718	When you read Bergen's Official Journal, the impression is clear that the government has given priority to sending out many rather than looking at who they have sent out. But there are people behind these numbers. I will mention two single examples for the Prime Minister. On December 5, last year Sonya was thrown out in six years. She was picked up early in the morning with her family. She's now in Kabul. She's lived half her life in Norway. Last year the police in Bergen also acted against people without having to stay. They arrested, among other things: four people with 20 pieces of property, knife weapons and about $50,000 in cash. These were people who had been notified more than 25 times in a very short time. The next day, three of the four people were in the street again in Bergen. Does the Prime Minister think this is a good priority for who will be and not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e727	The issue of criminal prosecution, imprisonment, is not a political issue; it is a matter for which the police and the prosecution authority are responsible. In fact, it is quite unreasonable for politicians in Norway to break basic rules and say who should be in prison, as the question actually implies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e732	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e735	The government has increased all the targets because there were so many criminals to be returned. It could therefore be tempting to ask the Prime Minister if she believes that long-term children are criminals, since the government has given higher priority to sending out children. But I want to ask the Prime Minister what she said about bad management that the new signals were not followed up in the organisations under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. The long-term child deployment policy continued for a long time afterwards, so new numbers show that the size is large. If the Prime Minister believes that this is an example of bad management, where is it when bad management is exercised?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e743	I repeat what I have said before: the fact that a letter of assignment is not passed on in letters of allocation to the underlying agencies is bad management and bad management. I have not said in general that the signals are not out, I have said just this, and I stress it again. If the Workers' Party considers this to be a good thing, it will be a new practice for how the administration is to take place in Norway. In 2014, there was a lower proportion of those who were sent out, who were children. In relation to the red-green government, which prioritised sending out long-term children, and which gave written instructions on that, under this government, we have softened and said that it should be that families of children should be sent out, but that one does not do the special priority that the red-green government had for long-term children. I do not believe that long-term children or others are criminals. Thus, most of those sent out either have a criminal background, have violated the Foreign Act or have been illegally resident in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e752	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e755	We should give priority to sending out groups other than long-term asylum children, but when a reader of the media, it is at least felt that one has gone away from it and rather prioritizes them in order to achieve targets. Can the Prime Minister say that this has been the case, that one has gone beyond the priorities, that one has given up the hard work of getting criminals out — there are much more difficult issues, they are harder to find — and rather has prioritised getting more people out, preferably families with a known residence address, to achieve the targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e762	In the decision on which the 2014 budget is based, it is clear that we are going to transport 1,900 with a background as asylum seekers. We're not quite done, but as of December 1, 2014, it was assumed that you were a good piece from reaching that number. It actually means that if you reach the figure of 7,100, it would be in line with what the Storting had as a budget assumption. It's not like you've given up sending out criminals. We're sending out criminals all the time, and it's also a new opening to send out to Afghanistan and Nigeria. That opening has been used by this government, in line with what was also said in the Stortinget in October, namely that families with children were a priority for broadcasting – it is in this context – but it is not the special priority for long-term children who were in the past. There are some of them that have been sent out here for more than three years, but we believe that it has not been suggested that we should not send out any long-term children. Then we had a different formulation and a different agreement between the four parties to stop the broadcast. We don't. That was not the basis either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e767	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e770	It is not easy to get good and clarifying answers from the Prime Minister on government assessments on these questions. I understand the frustration of the Left and Christian People's Party over what they experience as a lack of follow-up to an agreement and then almost an undermining of the agreement that the government has with the two parties. The question is simply: does the Prime Minister think that she and the government have helped to follow up and develop the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e775	I believe we have followed up the agreement, but I believe that it has taken too long to follow it up, and this is because the legal wording that we first thought would be good and representative of what we wanted, was given feedback in the consultation round that would work counter to what we thought. That's why we had a longer round that made it take longer to get the final solution in place. Now the final solution has come into force. The interim solution came into force on 1 July last year. I believe we have followed up the agreement. Then, of course, I believe that there are things we learn from the governance dialogue that have not been good enough in the Justice and Emergency Department to the police, when you have obviously not followed up such a clear change – when you have given notice in the underlying agencies. I also said that when we had conversations about this in the Question Time before Christmas, that of course it's the way we have to go through our own processes, our own procedures, and make sure that there's clarity in every term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e780	Then we go to the last main question, which is from Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e783	After the terrorist action in Paris, France increased preparedness and deployed 5,000 policemen and 10,000 soldiers. Norway is a small country with limited police resources. If a terrorist attack were to hit Norway, we depend on the defence to assist the police effectively. Then the special forces, the Army and the Home Office will be important to us, who practice and train – and an up-to-date law – so that this support can be quickly put in place. In the autumn, the PST announced that Norway was at greater risk of a terrorist attack. What has the government done to improve the ability of the defense to assist the police against an increased terrorist threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e792	The important thing is to make sure that we practice and establish procedures to deal quickly with the requests and wishes that come from the police to the Defense Department. The other thing that's important, and we're working on, is that, among other things, In the context of the terrorist alert and the increased terrorist threat we had this summer, it was practised that action could be taken more quickly before all the procedures were completed. We always look at simplifications in those procedures to get them fast and good enough. An important priority in the budget is to lower the standby time for helicopter operations. This means that there is a large increase in appropriations to ensure that we go from two hours to one hour, to be prepared to deploy personnel if the police need help to move on, with these resources, or to deploy other emergency equipment. It's working on it, and it's training. It's important to learn from all of the exercises we have. Last summer we had the exercise Gemini, where one among others. Practiced on different scenarios and combination between military resources and police resources. That's all we have to learn from every single time to get the best possible and to have good enough control. Then we also work with the law related to this, so that we are sure that we have a good law. There will be revisions and changes as work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e805	What I'm wondering is why the work on this law takes so long. This was presented in the summer of 2013, with a deadline for consultation in October 2013. So the government's been working on this for almost a year and a half. When we asked the Minister of Defence about this last March, she said that the matter was of high priority. I believe it is important to have a law in place in this area, so that it is well regulated how the defense can assist the police. Why does this legal work take so much time? If the matter is of high priority, I think it is a strange priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e813	We have decided to implement the work on the two-stage revision of the Security Act. In the first phase, we are going to make proposals that are absolutely necessary in relation to today's law. In the second phase there is a new and comprehensive legislative proposal. When it takes time, it is, among other things, because the feedback from the hearing was that the draft hearing draft sent out by the previous government was not good enough. So, of course, there are some difficult legal areas associated with this, including: The Constitution's clear and clear message that military forces should not be used internally in the country. That means they're going under police law when they're used. So there are some legal challenges to just how you do it, and who makes the decisions. But we're working a lot on it. In practice, I believe that we have achieved a very good deal, not least when we have now reduced the time to get ready to deploy forces more quickly. That's what I'm talking about. will be crucial for the speed with which to get to a place in a given crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e824	It opens up to one follow-up question – from Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e827	The Prime Minister has said several times, both before and after the change of government, that the implementation of the preparedness work must be resumed, and has called for it as early as August 2013 by the Defence Assistance Act. Then it's really funny that it's not yet in place. Defence is an important operational civil protection resource in crisis situations. This is not least the case here in Oslo, with government buildings, where we have dramatic experiences, the Storting and the Castle, etc., which we know are exposed. Here, His Majesty the King's Guard and the Home Office have also been made clear their capital duties. I would also like to believe that it is important to use a more plentiful shelter for such assignments. So when does the law come?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e834	Of course, it's important to deliver laws quickly, but even more important is that the laws are good, that they have solved the most important questions, and that on the way there we make priorities that allow us to actually deploy forces faster. We have given priority to that, for example. in the budget, in the most sensitive area, namely faster efforts by air transport forces. Then, in our opinion, we have also seen that we did good exercises in connection with the terrorist threat that was in the summer, where we showed that we have got ready quickly, for example. in the case of the special forces, moved on them, and allows for action in a much faster way than before. So there's a lot of good work done in this area. First of all, I am concerned that we make sure that the law we have is good. And it was sadly so that there were so many objections to the draft consultation from the red-green government that you had to start a little over to make sure the law was good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e843	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e855	There will be one change in the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic overview made available to the representatives in that context. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 3, from the representative Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Transport, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is absent because of participation in the funeral.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e868	‘The 31 municipalities that benefit from the reduced differentiated employer’s fee scheme following the Storting decision just before Christmas will receive the full benefit from the extracts from the framework transfers. The Council of State said in Stortinget on 9 December 2014 that the practice we are currently conducting is the same as that followed by the red-greens in 2004 and 2007. Is it wrong that the correction has been made in the past through the judgement system, and does the Council of State believe it is right that many municipalities should be able to double-tracked by losing both discretionary assets and framework transfers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e880	First, let me say that a differentiated employer’s fee is a powerful tool to facilitate business in District Norway, but it is not intended as a tool for strengthening municipal employment. That is why a reduction in the employer’s fee for municipalities also means that the corresponding amount is withdrawn from the framework grant. It is correct, as the representative points out, that the adjustment is made to the population allowance for the municipalities – as an employer – due to the lower rate of the employer’s contribution for 2015. In the past, this has been done on the discretionary grant. Sum estimated migrations for 2015 at county level are expected to be almost as large for some counties as it has total estimates, or the estimation framework will be significantly reduced. It has therefore been decided to make the draw for the municipalities that are now receiving a tax relief on the population grant for 2015. However, both the discretionary grant and the resident grant are part of the framework grant, so that it does not have an economic significance for the municipality in the technical way in which such a feature is carried out. In line with practice in 2004 and 2007, no matter where the plot is made, it has always been calculated to the estimated savings for the municipality given to the municipality’s compensation of employees. The conversion is therefore nominal and in line with previous practice. Over the period 2008–2012, it was specified that municipalities that had higher contributions to the employer’s fee than before 2004 were to be compensated by the discretion. From 2013, the guidelines were amended by the red-green government so that the county should take this into account in the distribution of discretionary funds. The guidelines have been further adjusted for 2015. The community can now use discretion to ensure that the most support goes to those municipalities in the county that need the most support. In some cases, therefore, the county has been redeployed to other municipalities in the county which, according to the county's knowledge of local conditions, have more need for additional State grants. The reduction in the population grant is due to a lower employer’s fee in 2015. The reduction in discretionary funds has been made in previously granted compensation for a higher charge than before 2004. So it's not going to be right to call this a double move. I also refer to the Committee's comment on the matter, which has been followed up by the letters of assignment to the county councillors for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e891	In his comment to the state budget, KS says: ‘When employers’ taxes were increased for these municipalities in 2004, they were compensated for this by increased discretionary subsidies. They have subsequently largely retained this grant. Several of these municipalities, however, experience in 2015 that they also receive a reduction in the discretionary grant from the county as a result of a reduced employer’s fee, in addition to the deduction of the framework grant. Such a double feature is very unfortunate, and the government should take into account the reduction in the discretionary grant when extending the framework grant for these municipalities.» Is it then that KS is wrong when they claim that there are double moves for these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e901	I have explained this in my answer. The last question, about the discretionary grant, is about compensation for a higher rate of employer’s contribution before 2004. The red-green government adjusted the guidelines for this already in 2013, and we have made a further adjustment to this in 2015. The Municipal and Administrative Committee has pointed out that some municipalities have had a disproportionate impact. That is why I follow this up in the letter of assignment to the statesmen, so that we follow up the clear advice that came from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e910	We believe that the 31 municipalities that were granted the reduced employer’s fee scheme should retain some of the impact. Some have been fully compensated by the discretionary system, but some have not been fully compensated, and in any case they will come out worse than with the previous scheme. This applies to the municipal economy — if one ignores the development of economic activity. Instead, now it's 267 million. kr in tax relief in its entirety withdrawn, and the government proposes that several municipalities receive a differentiated employer’s fee – as stated in the press release. It was a happy announcement to these municipalities that they have now finally come under this scheme. Does the Council of State realize that there is a great deal of disappointment around these municipalities when, no matter how this double feature will be managed, they are going to get worse when they are going to lay the budget for the current year in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e919	What the representative says is simply not right, because these municipalities don't get any worse. The change made is provenon neutral. Reduced employer’s fee is a powerful tool for companies in District Norway. It is a happy announcement to the 31 municipalities when the companies and jobs in their municipality receive a lower employer’s fee. However, it has never been intended that lower employers’ fees should be measures for increased municipal employment. Neither was it when the Senter party was in government. We follow the same practice as the Red-Green government followed, and as the Senter Party followed when they were in government. It is a fair matter that the Central Party is changing its position on the way out of government offices, but it is not possible to accuse this government of having established a new practice when we follow the practices that have been followed both in 2004 and 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e930	I would like to ask the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation the following questions: ‘The government has, at the hearing, submitted proposals for changes to the law on ownership with a deadline of December 2014. From Oslo city councils, several district councils and a number of associations, consultation responses have been given to propose to limit the possibilities of housing sharks to purchase and reconstruct family apartments to ‘hybelhouses’ with many small units, among others. by empowering a two-thirds majority of the joint ventures to limit such rentals. Will the Council of State follow up these proposals of an overall Oslo City Council with more when the bill is to be promoted for the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e939	The hearing period of the NOU 2014:6 Review of the Ownership Act expired on 15 December 2014. The Ministry has received approx. 80 hearing opinions. The committee has proposed to remove the ban on the acquisition of more than two housing compartments in the same group, see: the third paragraph of Section 22 of the Act. The prohibition was introduced because it was intended to spread the ownership of dwellings. Through the ban, it was hoped to discourage the purchase of dwellings by investors who only planned to rent out. The legal committee believes that the prohibition is not suitable for this purpose, because an investor who wants to buy up housing sections can do so through different companies that he controls, or through the use of strawmen, for example. relatives. I see that a large renting share in residential quarters can have an impact on the living environment. It can be considered that neither section holidays renting out the housing section nor tenants living there are particularly interested in following up on some of the common tasks. This may, for example: be duvets, cleaning of public spaces, etc. Leasers and tenants may occasionally feel less attached and less committed to the community than those who both own and live there. I think it is a fundamental question of how far we should go in regulating the individual's legal and economic freedom of action, which is essentially a free market. Interventions in freedom of action must therefore be balanced against possible effects on the rental share by maintaining the prohibition on acquiring more than two housing sections in the same pool. I'm going to do this in the legal work that's now under way in the department. Of course, I want to familiarize myself with the hearing bodies' views on the issue. I would also like to state that, within the framework of the second paragraph of Section 22 of the Ownership Act, there is the right to impose a prohibition on the acquisition of more than one section in the joint venture, or to restrict the rental right. This possibility will continue to exist even if the prohibition of acquiring more than two compartments in the same compartment would be lifted. But because it is a condition that everyone who will be affected by such a restriction consents, this will primarily be relevant in communities where there is not already a significant rental share. The representative's question relates directly to the law on ownership, but I would like to point out, for the sake of coherence, that both the law on ownership and the law on rent have provisions on the order and order of both the tenant and the lessor. Violation of the rules may give rise to forced sale of the section and user expulsion. As a result, there are several possibilities to address any unacceptable behaviour from both section owners and tenants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e956	Thanks for the answer. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State sees that a comprehensive rental business can degrade the living environment and lead to problems. It is described very precisely by an overall Oslo City Council in their decision. Among other things, they say: ‘Experience from Oslo, in particular from the Groruddalen, suggests that increasing rentals lead to conflicts. This is especially the case where large ordinary family apartments are converted into furniture/collectives for up to 16 persons, causing heavy loads on electrical installations, ventilation and drains.» They also say that it can cause unstable housing conditions and lead to problems in compliance with house rules, etc. What I would like to ask in the Council's response is that part of the issue that has not been raised in the hearing, which does not concern whether or not two sections can be owned, but which relates to the joint ventures, i.e. by decision, can make some kind of restrictions – if section-seies own rental apartments – on how many housing units they can be divided into, how much it can be done, and whether a two-thirds majority can set such limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e970	Let me first make it clear that this NOU was the last government to take the initiative, so it is not my initiative to get this work done – it was the initiative of the previous government. But I have now put it out for consultation. We have received 80 hearing opinions, and we are now working through them, just to see if proposals in the NOU are proposals that we are going to go further with, or whether they should be adjusted. Otherwise, I fully agree with the representative of Bohemia that it is important to find a good balance. Even I have a long tradition of self-ownership and see a great value in people owning their own home. At the same time, it is important that we also facilitate a rental market. It's about finding the balance between being self-owner and having the opportunity to rent. The extent to which restrictions on the number of housing units can be broken down is a question we need to consider in the further work on the NOU and in the hearing opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e977	I thank you for the answer, where the Council of State is discussing some of these issues. What is the situation, is that in some communities there has been a too extensive division of dwellings into tiny units where, as the city council writes, there are up to 16 people living. When it spreads in a joint, it damages the living environment in a way that also affects the other section owners – those who have normal family apartments, etc. It is not a question of renting out – what they want, and what the joint bodies, the city councils and the city councils have submitted to the hearing, is that within certain frameworks, when it goes over the sticks and stones, the joint with a majority of two thirds should be able to restrict each section to the extent that they can exercise their ownership. It is not that you should stop all rentals, but you have to get a certain authority to do so. That is what the core question is — not that national rules should be laid down for this, but that the alliances should be able to... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e986	Let me first say that I have registered the attention this case has in Akers Avis Groruddalen, that there have been large meetings about this, and that there is a great commitment around it. I think that's positive. I think it's good that people who are affected by any changes in the law get involved and make clear what they mean. That is why we are now working through the hearing opinions that have come, and will discuss the issues that are being raised. Some of the key here is where it is appropriate to regulate this, and one of the assessments in this NOU on ownership law has been that the way you have regulated it has not been an appropriate way. I have not decided whether we should do one or the other. I record the points of view that have come, and then we will assess them carefully before we possibly put something forward for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1004	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1011	The question to the Minister for Agriculture is as follows: ‘Norwegian fursports receive around 40 million annually. SEK in subsidies and NOK 900000 for breeding work. Allocation letters from the Staten agro-management focus on breeding requirements, cf. St.meld. [[2002-2003]] No 12 What is the opinion of the Council of State that the industry has so systematically and clearly overlooked the government’s assumption of State grants for more than 11 years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1020	Animal welfare notice, St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003, pointed out that breeding measures and care must promote trusting animals. The requirements for breeding for confidence were reinforced in the current legislation on fur animal husbandry from 2011. In the selection of breeding animals, particular attention shall be paid to the fact that the animals are trusting in humans and calm and not particularly aggressive against species friends. Breeding animals must be tested for human confidence before being used in breeding. The regulation also requires keepers to take measures to ensure that, from an early age, animals are confident and domesticated enough to be handled and cared for in an animal welfare manner. The Pets Committee's investigation suggests that there are still challenges to the confidence of fur animals in human beings. This may be related to both breeding and poor socialisation, but the sample says that there is a need for faster breeding progress and proposes measures to strengthen and systematise breeding work. I now propose that the investigation be sent to the hearing in order to contribute to the best possible lighting of the relationship it concerns. The industry will also have the opportunity to explain what has been done and what the industry believes is the status of the breeding work. The letters of grant for animal breeding sent by the administration have highlighted the follow-up to the objectives of the Animal Welfare Communication, and I do not see the basis for saying that these have been systematically translated. When it comes to reporting and using funds for 2014, I expect this in March. This will also be an opportunity for the industry to present results and status in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1033	The Council of State correctly refers to what has been the premise, confirmed in several rounds, for the grant, namely improved breeding, greater trustworthiness, etc. But what the fur selection has found is not only that there are still challenges in the industry, as the council expresses it, they have found that the breeding work has gone in the wrong direction. The cross-section is too aggressive, and the blue reef has had more health problems since the last time. So the question is again, especially to a State Council of the Progress Party: why should Norwegian taxpayers continue to pay for an industry that will not comply with the requirements of both the letters of assignment, regulations and the Animal Welfare Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1038	Now this NOU that has been presented has given us the opportunity to have a very broad discussion about the whole industry, and I expect the industry, of course, to explain what has been done in connection with the breeding work. I have also noticed what the representative has to say about blueprints, that there are quite major challenges here, which have to be addressed. With regard to taxpayers' money, the subsidies that go to this industry, it is a theme that belongs to the agricultural agreement, and I cannot at the moment address what comes from the proposals of this government in the agricultural settlement for 2015. It will come in our offer in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1045	I take note of this. I also take note of the considerable patience of the Council of State with an industry that has for a very long time done the opposite of what has been the prerequisites for the grants it receives. But this is not just any agricultural industry. It is an industry that thousands of people attend demonstration trains every year in Norway, and 68 pst. by the population, it is considered to be an industry which carries on a mad business against animals. In addition, it is partly a question of pure export subsidies. Although the Council of State is unable to advance the government's positions in the agricultural settlement, is not the Minister of Agriculture concerned that these subsidies and the treatment of them by the industry are struggling with the general patience of Norwegian citizens and their attitudes to Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1050	As the representative Hansson is in the Chamber, this is a debate that has been going on for many years. The debate on and against fur farming in Norway has been going on for a long time. What I'm happy about now is that we have a factual basis. A sample was reduced, they wrote a report, where both sides – whether for or against fur farming – say that they can support the content. We agree on the factual description, and we agree on what it says initially, but we disagree on the future and the way forward. That's why I think the most important thing now is to get a fact-based discussion where anyone who wants to do so can make their contribution to this report. We're definitely going to get a lot of hearing answers. Then we're going to take a decision on the future of the industry at a later stage. As regards the agriculture agreement for 2015, we're going to come back to it in May. I believe that the representative Hansson understands that I cannot start the treatment of it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1057	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-14.ana.ud1502e1070	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President shall assume that the representative remaining in the Chamber will not require the floor before the sitting is closed. - The meeting's been cancelled.
