ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e26	From 16 October to 21 October, and from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, there is an application for permission from the representative of Mr Hege Haukeland Liadal to take part in the meetings of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva on 20 and 21 October. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Kenneth Svendsen, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the county of Nordland: Greta Johanne Solfall 20.-21. October For Rogaland County: Øystein Langholm Hansen 19-21. October
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e61	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e64	On behalf of the representatives Iselin Nybø, Karin Andersen, Ingunn Gjerstad and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on the possibility of acquiring a double citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e69	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e81	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Elisabeth Aspaker, Sylvi Listhaug and Torbjørn Røe Isaacen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e88	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. Norway is in a very serious economic situation. We have the highest unemployment rate of 22 years, it is higher than it was in the financial crisis of 2008-2009, and it affects especially young people. One would think that one of the answers was a comprehensive commitment to knowledge and competence. It is therefore strange to see that in this area there is little capacity for action and implementation. We're not talking about any area, we're talking about what Right itself said was the most important thing if they came into government. In the budget for this year, Røe Isaken had nothing to do with increasing teacher density, nothing to do with early reading, writing and billing and hardly any new places of study. Cut in cultural school hours and students' scholarships were used for apprenticeship grants and further training for teachers. The reality was that the investment in tax cuts was almost a hundred times as high as the investment in primary and secondary education combined. In the next year's budget, oil money consumption is record high, a lot of oil money is going to make us less oil dependent. At least then it was to be believed that knowledge was a formidable budget winner. But also in this budget, the Minister of Knowledge loses vis-à-vis other budget areas. Even now, many tens of times more are spent on tax cuts than in school — a few hundred more places of study, followed by budget commitments from last year, a little more to apprenticeships, but far from the 122 000 unemployed waiting for. The Education Association writes in its press release on the budget: ‘It is disappointing that education is so small a priority in the government budget when it is so clear about the need for change.’ Does Røe Isaksen believe that the government's lack of knowledge is the correct answer to the high unemployment rate and the need for change?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e104	I believe that investing in knowledge, innovation and migration is the right answer. That's why I think the government is delivering on it. I could use this answer to correct all the measures we deliver, for example. It is an important contribution that the apprenticeship grant now increases for the fourth time by this new majority – which it stood still every year. We're reaching a milestone in research policy. That's the first time we use over 1 pst. of GDP for public research. It's a research budget that's record high in money too, it's an important news. There are funds for more places of study. There are major research, conversion and innovation efforts in other budgets. There are investments in the long-term construction of knowledge in Norway, for example: real science strategy – with an extra natural science time. We are among those OECD countries that have fewer hours of natural sciences in the week at primary school. We have to do something about that. How do we do that? Well, I'll give you more hours to do that. I also think it might be worth hearing what the representatives of the sector are saying. Petter Aaslestad, head of the Swedish Research Association – a large trade union – says, ‘This is a good budget for knowledge’. Arvid Hallén, Managing Director of the Research Council, says: ‘With this proposed budget for research and innovation, the government plays a more important role in the transformation of the Norwegian economy than ever.’ Gro Elisabeth Paulsen of Norsk Lektorlag says that the budget as a whole gives ‘an impression of offensive knowledge policy’. I think we have to note that the Labour Party is all alone in believing that this is a budget that does not amount to knowledge, research and innovation. I even belonged to SV's representative Snorre Serigstad Valen to say that in what he thought was a poor budget, of course from SV's point of view, the research budget and the knowledge budget were a highlight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e120	It does not surprise me at all that the Minister of Knowledge found room for the entire government's knowledge effort in two minutes. I believe the Minister of Knowledge is quite alone in reading out of the 2016 budget that knowledge is the budget winner. This is a government that now spends 200 billion dollars. oil crowns. More oil money has been spent in three years under the Right-Fremskrit party government than the red-green spent in eight years. So we see one real-time and the follow-up of the extra teachers that the Christian People's Party got into the budget deal last year, otherwise there's no bet. The budget winners are private schools, but this is only taken from the municipal budget, so there is no real increase. Where are the thousands of study places we should have had? Where is the increased effort on teachers, on the municipal economy that could build schools, clean up and hire more? Now we hear, for example. from Stavanger this year where they cut 70 years of teaching. We hear about other municipalities that are cutting down. Does it make sense to send teachers into an unemployment queue where there are already 120 000, when we need to invest in knowledge in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e127	I will immediately go back to the department and check and double check that the representative Giske has got the right government budget, because it seems that he has read something quite different than what both large parts of the sector have read, and what we have delivered. I can keep mentioning bets in the budget. I'd need a long time on it: professional boost of 93 million. kr together, important efforts on apprenticeship grants, on higher skills and on higher quality. We also deliver to school in the package of measures, including: funds for the construction and improvement of school buildings in municipalities. It is important for the local economy. Firstly, with regard to the relationship between tax relief and knowledge transfer, only the increase in the Ministry of Knowledge budget is almost equal to all the tax reliefs in the total budget of the year. The Ministry of Knowledge's budget is much larger than the tax. That being said, what characterizes this government is that we both manage to have a tax policy on conversion and to invest more in knowledge than those who put in government before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e136	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e139	Getting enough skilled professionals is one of the most important steps for Norway in the long term and in the short term. We know that too many people fall from high school. In 2013, Stortinget adopted the Stortinget Storingsmelda On the right track, on professional subjects. There was one of the most important steps to go through the supply structure of higher education in order to ensure a better and more relevant offer. Governments spent two years getting out of the pit to follow up that work. And then when he started the follow-up, he put down the sample. And he should have, he was acting, he didn't put down one sample, he put down five different samples to go through the supply structure. So it has to be on the side of the professional advice that works with just this. My question to the Council of State is: What is the reason why the government had to spend two years on starting the follow-up to the Storing Message that says we should have a proper review of the offer structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e150	Now I'm the state council that's here to answer, but it could be tempting to return the question, that's why the last government had to use eight years to come up with a big message that said something about how to get a professional boost. But I have to answer instead. We followed up the professional commitment from the beginning and from the first budget. One example is that in the first budget there was already an increase in the apprenticeship allowance that had been demanded for a long time, which had not occurred before. Then it would have been silent. Here we go. In addition, we have stepped in – it will now come in the course of the year – the apprentice clause. We have taken a settlement with what has been a weak apprenticeship policy in the state, made demands on state enterprises to participate in the apprenticeship programme, etc. And then it's quite natural that when we're going to go through the supply structure of high school, we do it in a way that involves the parties, the sector and the labour market in the best possible way. Therefore, the professional advice is the most important part of this. And then we've put down some samples to look at this from an outside perspective, and look at it a little bit overall, too, but that we're going to have a good process where the parties are going to be involved, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e159	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e162	I believe that there has been a lot of good progress in the field of school education during this period of ageing, and for example. I am pleased that the apprentice grant has been increased by more than twice as much as it was under eight years of red-green rule. But creating a good school isn't just about money. It is also about giving teachers a good working day and giving them the opportunity to succeed. One thing I'm glad that the Minister of Knowledge has set itself the goal is to get rid of the time thieves in school. Now a year has passed since the Council of State received a report from a sample to propose measures, and a few weeks ago we were able to read how the Council of State wants to follow up this report. He wants, among other things, make the screening tests mandatory, eliminate the requirement of language mapping for new arrivals and make simplifications in the primary school information system. But the question is whether this is enough. Does the Council of State think that the steps he is now taking are something that will be noticed by the teachers in school, and actually give them more time with the students and more time to be teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e170	The answer to whether that is enough is no. The answer to whether this will be noticed, is yes, for some. For example, the requirement to document in-flight assessment, which is a purely documentary requirement, will be marked, changes in the assessment regulation that will enter into force this year, and the change in reporting and better coordination of supervision will be marked, if not so much for the individual teacher, then at least for school management and school administration. But I think we also have to do more, and let me just suggest something about what I mean is the way forward. In the follow-up to what's called the Ludwigsen Committee, we're going to look at the curriculum, and then there's an important, relevant and interesting question about whether the curricula are currently built up in a way that creates a lot of local extra work. We should look at, for example. whether we should have clearer guidance, guidance, to break down the competences objectives at each stage. It's a discussion I think we should take. I also believe that in all the matters we have to deal with, we have to look at them through the time thief test. For example, when we are now going to have a new bullying policy, there must also be a question: Will this become more form, more bureaucracy, or does it have real effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e177	Then we'll get more back to that side. Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e182	Higher education will be important as a key also in order to avoid unemployment and to keep young people in the future. It is clear that it is a concern that many municipalities and counties have an economy that makes them now have to go through and also consider whether to cut down on the secondary school offer. My own county is a state that needs to do so, among other things. As a former member of the exchange of words here, we have all agreed on professional careers, but there has to be something more than just labeling ‘vocational leave’. It also has to happen some things. In addition to having put down some samples, I would like to ask the Council of State about the so-called exchange model that one agreed on in the spring of 2013, which has been used to a small extent, unfortunately. There are only 25 schools offering such a model as a pilot scheme, but there will be a model that is requested by both students, schools and industry. How will the government use such a model and make it more widely used?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e189	That's a very good question, and I'm very much in favour of schools and county councils using the exchange model more. There are two things we've done, and we may also have to do more: the first is that we gave more money to schools that would try it out – we did that in our very, very first budget, it's important. Then we have removed some formal legal obstacles such as: is on a trade-and-hour basis, which means that today it is free for the counties to use the exchange model. Now it's cleared of the road, and it became quite recent. So the question is, will the states actually do it? Since I believe that the exchange model is a good idea and should be used more, we may also have to consider whether to stimulate the states to use the exchange model more. But I would also like to stress that it is important that the counties, who own the vocational education and who own the secondary schools, actually take responsibility locally. So it's not like all the problems in vocational training are automatically to be solved by the state. That is why we have good local politicians who are also passionately involved in vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e196	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e199	Like the Council of State, I believe that this is a good government budget for knowledge. I mean, of course, there's room for improvement, and we'll talk about that in the future. I want to follow up a little bit on the question that Mr Tyvand's representative was talking about, this is something that goes on red tape. I believe that the Council of State is quite clear that we have not done enough with regard to bureaucracy. If we are to enable the school to meet the challenges that we want to face in the future, we must give the teachers room to be teachers. At the same time, we see that the Education Association is out saying that they are unsure whether everyone meets the continuing and continuing training requirements. My question to the Council of State is: is it time that he started thinking a little bit like the Left has thought about this with bureaucracy, that we have to set a goal on how much we are going to reduce, and then work concretely and specifically towards it? Then I wonder if the Council of State believes that we really are spending enough on further education and training, in order to achieve the goals that... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e210	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e213	There were two questions. Let me do the last one first. This applies to continuing training. As the cooperation parties know, there has been a strong commitment to continuing training. It's part of a strong bet. I would say that one of the most important changes in the pace that the new majority has undergone is the shift in knowledge policy, both in appropriations and in content. The level we have today, with more than 5,000 seats, we believe that we need to be sufficient both to meet the skills requirements that have come during the period – which we have set to 10 years, with the possibility of extending to 15 years – and to allow professional immersion for those who meet the skills requirements. So it's question number. 2nd@item: inlistbox Time thief work will never be done. The reason I've been skeptical about setting such a target is that a lot of the time thieves don't originate in the state code, but in the practice of the code in schools and in the municipalities. Worst of all, we will end up in a situation where we ask schools to report on whether they achieve the time thieves’ goals — and thus create more bureaucracy. I believe that we must have time-removal with us all the time when we are considering new proposals, and we must keep working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e222	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e225	The right-wing bet for the last two years within the school has been on competence. There is a total amount of money that is in complete agreement with the continuing training effort that the government is currently running. She's good. In the evening post today, we see what happens when the commitment to competence is too one-sided. Anette Nilsson, who has been a general teacher since 2005 – in almost eleven years – no longer gets a job in school because she does not meet the requirements for deepening in Norwegian. She has been a Norwegian teacher for 11 years, but she no longer gets a job, because Fredrikstad doesn't include people who don't have that depth. It's a consequence of the rule change that happened before the summer, that SV and the Center Party went against. Fredrikstad municipality now does not practice adding people who do not have that deepening. 29,000 teachers are at risk of falling into the same situation. My question is, will the Council of State review the matter again?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e234	First of all, given the look-up in the Evening Post, it is wrong to use words like ‘separated’ or to suggest that someone will no longer be able to work as teachers. All those who are in school today will still be able to work as teachers. What we're talking about here is competence requirements for professional education. I believe that a desired effect of these skills requirements is that the municipality says that when they are going to hire a teacher who is going to teach in Norwegian, they want a teacher who has a depression in Norwegian, when they are going to hire a teacher who is going to teach mathematics, they want a teacher who has a depression in mathematics. Nevertheless, formally, the municipalities – and there is an opportunity that they have to use to make this system work – have the opportunity to grant the school a yearly derogation, i.e., an annual allowance. that they still have the opportunity to practice with the teachers who are there today. The idea is that the continuing training system should help ensure that all receive depression over a period of time. It is not the responsibility of the individual teacher, it is the responsibility of the municipality and the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e242	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e245	I also want to ask the Minister of Knowledge a question. Hundreds of thousands of people fleeing seek security now in Europe, and some of these come to us in Norway. We don't know how many are going to come in the next few years, but what we know is that there are many children and young people among those who are now seeking refuge in our country. The proportion of single minor asylum seekers also appears to be larger than we have seen before. To date, more than 450 single-year-old asylum seekers under the age of 15 have arrived in Norway. It is important that we succeed in the rapid and good integration of the people who come here. It's important for the individual, and it's important for our society. Providing the children who come here with a good school offer will be an important part of this integration work. A survey carried out by NOVA on behalf of the Education Directorate in 2011 showed that there are considerable variations between municipalities and municipalities in the school offer given to asylum seekers of school age. While most municipalities have their own introduction classes, they have 20 pst. by the municipalities, teaching in ordinary classes only. There are also wide variations in access to SFOs and teaching aids, which, for asylum seekers, may be important areas for both learning and integration. To what extent does the Council of State think that Norwegian school is equipped to receive the children who are now coming to the country? And what does he possibly think is necessary in order for us to be able to give these children a good school offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e258	This is a very good and very comprehensive question. On the one hand, I believe that Norwegian school is well-equipped in the sense that many schools work very well. Many municipalities have good systems to integrate newcomers, and in many places, extra education, additional language training and support education work well. This also illustrates the school's fundamental social mission, namely that school and kindergarten are the institutions of our society to ensure that the next generation has equal opportunities, regardless of where parents came from. But then we also know that there are some disturbing signs that go into the statistics in Norwegian school. We know, for example. that children with a minority background tend to make school worse than children with a majority background. We know that e.g. In Oslo, where this has been carefully investigated, many children with a minority background have so poor Norwegian language when they start school that they really cannot follow the teaching. We also know that some of our screening tools aren't really very suitable for catching children with a minority background. It's e.g. Very easy for a child to read well, so on the surface it seems that he has learned Norwegian well, but the understanding of language and understanding of words can be very reason. There is no doubt that the large number of refugees and asylum seekers are now going to put all our welfare services to the test — including school and kindergarten systems. This is something the government is constantly working on. That's something that we're also going to deliver an additional proposition on, but that our system today is good, I don't think we can say.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e265	The Education Association wrote a letter to Prime Minister Erna Solberg a few days ago asking the government to present refugee children with a better offer than today. They include: emphasis on the provisions of the Convention on the Non-Discrimination of Children and on the need to provide children with additional protection in transit. In line with the Training Act, the right to provide school services is effective today only after the child has been in Norway for three months. Three months without school is quite a long time, and especially for a child who may have been on the run for several months already, and has been out of school for a long time. Will the Minister of Knowledge consider proposing changes to the Training Act that ensure that children coming to Norway are entitled to school services once they have been registered?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e270	It's a difficult assessment, but my answer is no anyway. It is not that everyone who comes to Norway, even now, will have permanent residence. This is an assessment that balances the fact that many will have permanent stays — and many will remain in Norway, especially those who are now from Syria — with the fact that many will not. Then there's also a discussion, if you're going to take the kids into account, to what extent you're going to put the kids into a school situation in Norway, let them have friends, let them go into a class, then give them a rejection and send them back. So I believe that three months, which is today's rule, is reasonable, and I believe that it will also stand in the situation we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e275	There will be follow-up questions – first Hanne Thürmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e278	The school is an important arena for integration and inclusion, but it is also the nursery. It is a pleasure to see that in kindergartens the proportion of children with a migrant background is on the way up, but it is a challenge that children under the age of four in receptions of asylums are not entitled to childcare services. The number of children is likely to increase significantly over the years to come, and there will be many one-, two-, three- and nearly four-year-olds in asylum recipients. Kindergarten is important both for learning languages and for getting to know Norwegian society, and with other children you get a safer everyday life than sitting on reception. In addition, kindergartens may also be involved in integrating parents. Will the Minister of Knowledge consider proposing legislative changes that ensure children in reception of asylum rights to kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e283	I don't have any plans. There are, of course, ways of offering an offer to the reception centre to care for the children who are there. When I say ‘I have no plans about it’, it means that we – and the government has now announced it through the Prime Minister’s speech yesterday – now have to go through and look at everything in view of the situation we are in the middle of. This means that I also think we need to be so sober and realistic that we say that it is certainly not all good intentions that can be fulfilled if it is to reach 30,000, 40 000 – perhaps up to 50,000 – refugees and asylum seekers to Norway in the next few years. We also have to take into account that it is not certain that this is a temporary situation. This might be a new permanent situation. We don't know when there'll be stability and tranquillity in the vicinity of the Middle East so that the refugee flows end, that people stop moving away from there. I believe that a certain degree of negligentness is suggested before we go into what may be good suggestions for the use of more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e288	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e291	We may not be able to fulfill all the good intentions, but what we know is that many of the refugees who are now coming are going to stay and stay in Norway. We know that we need labour in many sectors, and we also know that those who come to Norway and stay should be able to function in society as quickly as possible. Good initial training, good vocational training and higher education activities are then needed. When a highly trained dentist from Syria comes to Norway and has to work as a dental assistant after many years, it shows that our systems are probably too rigid and do not allow us to exploit the potential of those who come to Norway. What we need is rapid monitoring – find out what they can and what they need – and find out how we can use their skills, for example. by enabling NOCUT to recognise education more quickly and to look at the system. My question is, how will the Minister of Knowledge prepare the system of higher education to meet the needs of those who are now coming, both to receive education and, not least, to receive completion and recognition of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e298	I fully agree with the questioner in the problem description and fully agree that we have to do something here, and we have to do that now. Next year, NOKUT is going to get 20 million. to continue to recognise foreign education. Something's also going to get $17 million. kr to start the recognition scheme for foreign vocational education. It was something that the Norwegian Industry and the Joint Confederation asked the government at the last main settlement, which is now entering the budget. It may also be relevant for this group. So the next step is: what happens at the moment you're told that you have an engineering education, but that you need A, B and C to be a Norwegian-approved engineering education? I think we should look at several other European countries that have managed to create simple modules, which the university and higher education sectors deliver, and which allow us to take the additional education needed to validate engineering education. In other words, we need a little bit of the same thinking that Bent Höie has had in cancer treatment, also here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e306	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e309	As others have been here, the refugees who are now coming to Norway have very different backgrounds and very different ages. While some of those who come are illiterate, the other people who have a high level of education, who speak more languages, and who have a good starting point for doing very well in a country like Norway. Some refugees while they're in education, which means that they can't complete the education they've started, but who have good chances of getting through if they've just completed their education. I've met Norwegian universities, which are very clear that they want to contribute to the situation we now have. They include: networks and programs such as Students at Risk and Scholars at Risk, which is about that if one comes as a student but has not completed, a few can complete his degree at a university. If a job in academia, a few jobs in academia in Norway. Will the Council of State take a closer look at such arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e316	I will definitely look into it. I would also say that all the institutions, individuals and businesses that now, in these days and in the last months, have said that they will contribute, will be asked to contribute. So they're going to have to contribute, because the challenge we're facing right now is so formidable that we can't do it if we just lean back. It's very good with short-term commitment, that the interpersonal engagement is aroused, and that we get good work, but this is a long-term challenge for the Norwegian community. I also believe that the university and higher education sectors must prepare to deliver even more than just measures like the Student's at Risk. I think they have to prepare for e.g. to see if there are ways to provide modules of medical training so that foreign medical training can be approved — and something similar for engineering training. I think we need to look at whether the vocational schools, which are an important sector, can also contribute to providing vocational and labour-related education to some of those who are coming. Everyone has to contribute here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e323	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e326	I understand that the Council of State does not want to offer school services any earlier than is the case today, nor is it entitled to kindergarten. But when it comes to language training for children, it's going to be absolutely necessary that we think new, and that we think it has to happen from day one. So we can be more open to discussion about how it's going to happen, and in the direction of who, but that's an important point, in the opinion of the Center Party. Many of the refugees coming here are going to stay in Norway. This will lead to major challenges for municipalities, which will once again provide a good and adapted offer in primary schools to many of the young people. How will the government contribute to a local economy that can actually enable municipalities to make such an offer, not least in terms of having more teachers and increasing teacher density?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e335	Now, I guess it's not directly under my responsibility, but I'll still say something about what the representative asks. It is important for me to say that when the Prime Minister was here on Tuesday to explain the situation, she also invited the Stortinget to discuss this. That is, when I reply that I have no plans about it, it is not a categorical rejection that this might be relevant in some major discussion or package, as the Stortinget, along with the government, comes to light. It's important to bring it with you. In the case of the grant to the municipalities, the municipalities will experience a violent and greater pressure as a result. Then it is important that the integration grant is good. It's increased, as far as I know, even though it's not in my department. In addition, for example: the free resources of municipalities at a high level in the budget for the following year. This means that municipalities have room for action to give priority to building important welfare goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e344	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e347	I think the minister just now gave the concept of ‘accommodation’ a new content, when a government budget has been presented for the third year in a row of huge tax reliefs to the richest, but it doesn’t seem to be important to babysitting for kids who sit on reception and have the escape, or faster schooling for young people who are all alone in the world and who are trying to find footholds. I understand that the Council of State has thought through this and believes it is correct, but it does not mean SV. But I'll give the council a tip. It was about the exchange model in place: we have a great need in Norway for health professionals. Health professionals’ training for minority speakers has been developed over four years. There are some attempts, but the counties and the municipalities are struggling to finance it, and we need more. Instead, the council said he didn't think everything would automatically be solved by the state, but this could perhaps be a mission the state could undertake, sail within these sober frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e354	In terms of accuracy: The reason I say we have to be sober is that the challenge we face with the refugees and asylum seekers – that is, the people on the run that comes here – is formidable. We're going to solve that challenge, and we're going to give the best possible reception to those who come to Norway, but we're also going to do it without it putting into play our budgets and other welfare services, etc. I thank you for tips on the exchange model and health professionals and promise to look at it. I have to admit, I don't know exactly that experiment in detail. My point was not that the state has no responsibility, because the state has a responsibility. My point was that even those who own the secondary schools must take their share of the responsibility. What we can do when, for example, in the general case of exchange models, it is to be stimulated. We gave more money to that in our first budget. But if the counties don't follow it up, it'll unfortunately help a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e361	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e364	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. It is a reality that the country’s farmers had low expectations of today’s government and of what it would do to strengthen the profitability of Norwegian food production. But in one area there were clear expectations, and it was in the area of taxes and taxes, with the background of the promise made by the Right Party and the Advance Party in the election campaign, and not least after the following wording of the government platform: «The government will use targeted tax changes to strengthen the farmer's financial position.» Political promises made after an election should be trusted. This is why it is a tax shock for many when the government of the State budget proposes a strong tax tightening in the case of transfers of farms within the family. It will make generational shifts far more expensive, and it will affect the very support of Norwegian agriculture: family farming. There is no doubt that in the case of transfer of active use within the family, many will receive a tax bill of hundreds of thousands of dollars and more. It will make generational shifts more expensive and difficult. Taxes on generation change are not the only tax austerity for the country's peasants from the government. One might mention the historical increase in the diesel tax. In 2014, the so-called discontinuity principle was lost in generation change. In addition to the generational change tax, a new tax on the sale of smaller plots on the farm will be introduced this year, and until next year, the depreciation rate will be reduced by an alert and some subsidies will be taxed. So my question is, why does the Progress Party and the Right send a large tax bill to the country's family use when one has promised tax changes to strengthen the farmer's financial position?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e384	With the proposal for the next year’s budget, this government has implemented – and proposed – 22 billion. kr in tax reliefs. It goes to ordinary people in the form of tax relief and reduced income tax. The inheritance tax – the ‘death tax’, as many called it – has been removed. In addition to the fact that one was in mourning, one would also start to treasure the inheritance that one received. We have implemented tax relief for companies, we are reducing company tax – we are proposing it – we have reduced property tax, and we have, among other things, improved the TAX FUNN scheme, which will increase the number of enterprises in, inter alia: the food industry can benefit from these schemes. Norwegian farmers also benefit from these tax concessions. Norwegian farmers are also residents of Norway who pay ordinary taxes. Norwegian farmers do business and thus receive tax relief through the reduced taxes. The peasantry, for example, is to reduce the wealth tax because it affects Norwegian farmers. The government has put in place a tax reform to help simplify and secure and create jobs across the country. What is one of the major challenges in agriculture is recruitment. In today's situation, if one is not born into an agricultural family, it is quite difficult to get into this industry. In addition to feelings, which many people have, relating to the farm they come from, it has been economically so that one has to pay half of the tax on it a servant to sell if a seller out of the family, but sells one inside the family, to someone who might not want to drive, then one gets it tax-free. Such a system does not stimulate new recruitment, nor does it facilitate increased food production. That's why... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e393	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e396	I think that many of the country's farmers feel that a sheep, are targeted tax incentives, not targeted tax reliefs, that are promised. Why is that? I believe former State Secretary Bård Hoksrud was in the middle of something during his posts at the conference Forest and three on 27 May this year. In his speech, he played a little bit from the budgetary drag fight inside the government and there he could tell that all the councils, with the exception of Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug, would have the most money for their territory. And it is bad to hear that the Council of State responsible for agriculture does not stand up for the interests of agriculture internally in the government. It's weak. Is this why it is agriculture, and family farming, that have to endure fiscal tightening and maintain the balance of the budget? That's my question. Why is it that the Council of States is not in charge of getting the best possible framework conditions for the industry for which she is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e405	As I was talking about: Farmers are residents, farmers are entrepreneurs who benefit from the taxes that this government has implemented. What we're doing is we're doing a tax reform to help simplify the system. I see that the Senterpartiet wants as much tailor-made arrangements as possible for the farmers. It does not contribute to a simpler system; it contributes to a more complex system. In the case of lifting breakage, the Centre Party has a long experience with it in relation to agriculture. I understand that you try to spend time hiding the missing results you had when you were in government. The truth is that Norwegian agriculture is now doing well. The truth is that we are importing less and less lamb and sheep meat, which the red-greens never did when they were in government. The truth is that it is invested in Norwegian agriculture as it is. Innovation Norway mentions the very high level of use of these funds. So instead of black-painting and making everything into a problem, you should rather enjoy what is now happening in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e414	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e417	Minister of Agriculture and Food Listhaug boasts that this government has prioritised billions of taxpayers. Then it's amazing that Sylvi Listhaug is the Minister of Agriculture who has ever introduced the most tax incentives for her own industry, and she chooses to call the tax adjustments that you have for Norwegian food production, special advantages. We also have tax adjustments for Norwegian shipping companies, because we want to have a shipping industry. We have it for the Norwegian fishing industry, because we want to have a fishing industry. We have it for the oil and gas sectors, because we want to have an oil and gas industry. We have it for Finnmark, because we want value creation to the north too. So we have a lot of tax adjustments to create values around the country. And then we have our own tax rules for agriculture, because we want it to be a long-term value creation, and because we want to facilitate family farming, not just for short-term profit. Is it that Minister of Agriculture and Food Sylvi Listhaug will also call the other tax rules adapted to individual industries for special advantages, or is it only agriculture? [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e426	That's it. We've got the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e429	This tax reform is just about to create a system that needs to be simplified. That means that some of the special benefits that have been become less. So it's obviously like the Center Party is against tax relief for ordinary people and other types of business, but it's too tax relief for farmers, and that's a little special. What this is all about for me is recruitment, it's that people outside this industry should also be able to get in. So there are families on the outside who want to buy themselves a farm that wants to do food production, but that today, with the tax system that the red-greens left behind, doesn't get the opportunity to the extent we want. That's why we're changing it. And what we're doing is giving tax relief to the farmers, to sell the industry to others who want to get in, and who want to be in Norwegian food production, contributes to reduced taxes. But we give families, like today, the opportunity to abandon the farm to the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e436	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e439	The tax question raised at the outset is, in fact, about taxing the families that are currently farming, in a tougher way than before, and it may be difficult to be compatible with making it easier to produce more food. What is the carrybar of Norwegian agriculture is just family farming. And last year, family farming was selected by the United Nations to have its United Nations year — so it is also important globally. If we are to make full use of the resources we have in Norway for increased food production, we are totally dependent on these local practitioners. Another measure that will affect family farming is the repeal of the concession law, which has been addressed by the government and the Council of State and which will help both foreign and domestic economic actors to take over farms. Is it still the case that the Council of State wants to repeal the concession law? And when will this matter possibly come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e448	What this is about is that we want to get new actors into agriculture. It should therefore be possible to buy a farm and contribute to food production even if you are not born into an agricultural family. What is the Workers' Party's answer is to distribute the family so that it won't be attractive to sell out, as it has been for many years now. The fact is that the arrangement that has been has been that if you shut down the operation and sell the farm, you pay less tax than if you drive the farm and sell it to someone outside the family who wants to drive it further. It's a system that facilitates smaller food production, no more. We believe that the concession law is a law that helps the public to take on tasks that they should not have. They can go in and decide who will get the purchase, at what price. Now there is one issue in Stortinget about price control, which can be dealt with at any time, and which I understand the committee will deal with. We're coming back to the concession law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e458	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e461	This government went to the choice of tax and tax relief for most people, and most people got tax relief when the inheritance fee was removed. But if you're a daughter or son of a farmer, yes, you lose when you're taking out your inheritance. If you choose as a farmer to sell your farm out of the family, this government will give him tax relief. But if you're a daughter or a son of a farmer, the government wants you to be taxed more than today if you buy your mom's or dad's farm. I'm glad the Council of State is busy recruiting. I am pleased that the Council of State is occupied with all those who are outside and want to join the peasantry and participate in increasing food production. But I wonder if the Council of State sees that this government provides tax relief for most people with one exception – if your mother or father is a farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e468	In fact, I disagree with that. What this government is doing is giving tax relief to most people, also to farmers most. We also give it to farmers as businessmen. They benefit from all the tax incentives that this government has implemented and has proposed to implement – 22 billion. kr. Then I believe that it should be non-discrimination. I want those who are outside agriculture, who are not born into an agricultural family, also to have the opportunity to come in. What we know is that there are a lot of people who could think of it. But it is very difficult to get a farm, among other things. because you have a tax system that means you have to pay a lot of taxes if you're going to sell to someone outside the family, and no tax if you're going to sell to someone in the family. I want the best to be involved in Norwegian farming, the most engaged, those who burn to help produce food. I believe that non-discrimination is the best thing, and that is why I believe that the tax changes that we are proposing are entirely in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e475	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e478	Many have described this proposal by the government as a time attack on family use and the full-time farmer, as the government says they want to support. Along with the notified changes in the concession law, this suggests that the Minister of Agriculture and the Government's project is actually replacing our agricultural population and gaining ownership of small families that do not want to have cats and rabbits in the country, but of large investors, who are going to import and operate industrial agriculture. It is also alarming that the Council of State completely avoided answering Viedum's questions. Is it the case that the government has a principle relationship with special advantages in industries, or does this apply only to agriculture, which is to be particularly affected in the case of generation transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e485	That is how we have proposed a tax reform that is just about to contribute to simplifying the system we have today. In agriculture, there are some special advantages, on which we propose to change. In the tax reform as such, there are also some changes proposed by this government, because we want to prioritise tax relief for most people. We want to give priority to tax havens for businesses at a time when we need more jobs in Norway and need to secure the jobs we have. I want those who are interested, who are alive and passionately engaged in producing food, to be allowed to participate in the work we have started to bring up the production of food in Norway. That means that several of those who are not born into an agricultural family, but who want to buy a farm, will have the opportunity to do so. This is precisely why we are making these changes – non-discrimination – so that those who are most interested can buy a farm, rather than everything goes in the family, as it has largely done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e492	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e495	My question is about salmonnus, and the question is fairly addressed to the Minister for Fisheries. Marine industry is one of our most important industries. Salmon farming is increasingly important for Norwegian export income and the Norwegian economy — directly and indirectly for the industry itself, for the supplier industry and for other neighbouring activities. It is an industry of great importance to many coastal communities. If the nutritionists, the breeding companies, manage the growing pains in a good way and authority and administration make the right demands on the industry, the aquaculture industry has the potential to become one of the most solid pillars of the Norwegian welfare society. This I experienced was an important premise in connection with Storting's treatment of the farm communication in June this year. The size decided to place the breeder’s ability to keep the salmonside level down as a condition for causing the breeder to grow in his establishment. Now we find that salmon is a major challenge for the aquaculture industry and the environment, as well as that the industry has an alarming use of chemicals to get rid of salmon leaves. The challenges don't seem to be getting smaller. This concerns the Left in terms of both the environment and the wild fish sector, for example: shrimps and different species of fish living near fish farms. Several media searches over the past few weeks have supported this. My question is: what does the Minister for Fisheries think about the salmon situation, and what is the Council of State's response to these challenges now, i.e. in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e508	I understand that this question is being asked, but it is right now for me to nuance the picture a little. If we see the country as a whole, the lice situation in the farms this year has been better compared to previous years, but the situation in North Trondelag and Møre, on the other hand, has been very serious at the end of the summer. Luckily, the luxuries here are too downward now. Let me just be very clear that it is the industry's responsibility to operate the facilities in such a way that they are at all times below the limits set by the authorities. It is also important for me to stress that the Food Safety Authority has a very important job of ensuring that these requirements are complied with, and the Food Safety Authority is also equipped with extended powers to impose sanctions when you see the lice coming out of control. Especially regrettable is the situation that has been in Middle Norway this year. Therefore, I am also very concerned that the companies must respect that when they are subject to sanctions, and when the Food Safety Authority has imposed depopulation in Central Norway, it is important that the companies actually comply with it and take seriously the situation that has occurred. Let me also say that we're now working on a bomb to find other alternative methods. I agree with the questioner that chemical use is alarming. It is too high, and we need to shift to methods that are more gentle for both wild fish and farmed salmon and for the environmental impact. It is therefore gratifying that so many now use cleaning fish, that they are bred clean fish, and that other technologies are also used to combat lice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e517	I thank you for the answer and agree that there are nuances in this, and that Mid-Norway has been particularly vulnerable now. I want to follow up on what I was about in my first question, and as the Council of State touched on a little – this about the use of chemicals in industry. I point out that the traditional fishing industry, the wild fish sector, is now calling out a warning about the extensive use of chemicals in the leaching of fish, that leaching agents damage the wild fish and other marine organisms, and there has been particular attention to the shrimp population, which I was in the midst of. I think we know too little about the importance of how the use of chemicals in salmon farming works on the shrimp resource and other marine organisms. Does the Minister for Fisheries share this view, and what will the Minister for Fisheries specifically do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e526	A lot of research is already being done on this with the effect of laxatives on other crustaceans, and further research is being undertaken during these days. I agree with the representative of Farstad that if we want more value creation out of the marine sector in Norway, the aquaculture industry must be further developed in such a way that it does not go beyond other populations. Therefore, the feedback received in the case of shrimps must be taken with the utmost seriousness, and therefore I have also been concerned to ensure that more research is now being done in this area, in order to ensure that the use of methods to control salmonids does not go beyond other populations. But I want to go back to what I said before: we are totally dependent on getting away from the use of chemicals and on other methods of combating lice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e534	Follow-up questions are given – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e537	I looked at the minister of knowledge that he might have thought this was about reading software, but we're going to keep letting this be about salmonmus and not reading loops. My concern is when the Minister for Fisheries begins to respond macro-inspectively to a problem that needs to be looked at in a small perspective in order to understand its consequences. And it's not just in the Namsen watercourse and in the north that you've seen great challenges. The Marine Research Institute provided data from reports that provided frightening figures for Hardangerfjorden. This concerns the challenges that the representative of Farstad referred to in relation to wild fish in the fjords, but our rivers and salmon and our trout are the ones that really get hurt. When measurements in Hardangerfjord show that 100 pst. Of the smolt, which is the one that is really damaged by this, there is salmonnus on it – one finds smolt with up to 605 lice, and the average is 105 – this is a major intervention in our nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e544	It's true that I've started with the macro, but it's now doing a lot of work to monitor our rivers to find out what development is like, and what we have of measures to put in place to protect both the wild fish and the welfare of the farmed salmon itself. There is a lot to do, but I agree with the representative Skei Grande that some of the findings we are making are alarming. That's why it's so important that we work with other methods, and that's why there's also a lot of pressure on developing such methods. We just have to realize that the big message that was presented, and that the Stortinge essentially joined in June, is more important than ever, because it is about all the further growth that has to be based on the fact that the industry can develop without affecting the environment around it. And the thing about... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e551	Time's up. Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e556	In the budget, a government can read that the first capacity adjustment after the new system is due to take place late in 2016 or early in 2017. This is identical to the proposal contained in the farm growth message of the government. One shall divide into production areas, carry out the assessment of the salmon disembarkation system in each area and adapt the legislation to the new system, and involve regional and municipal authorities and authorities. The marine research institute's model was also very premature, as the Stortinget pointed out. How far has a knowledge acquisition come with a view to getting a representative model, as the Stortinget asked, and how realistic is this timetable – late 2016/2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e563	There is now an extensive follow-up work following the decisions taken in the Storting in June, and to model or find this model of how the lice indicator is to be used in the new growth system is taken care of in the way that the Storting wants: one takes on the work already done in the HI, and then one connects on other environments to make sure that the model we land on finally, the design of that indicator, is in such a way that we can feel confident that it is what we should manage growth from. So ask the representative how realistic it is that the model can be ready for use at the end of 2016/beginning of 2017. We've said that it's most likely that we can shed light on the first growth in spring 2017, but that obviously requires that we have a system in place within that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e570	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e573	The size took place before the summer for a zero vision in terms of resistance. A one-sided focus on lice treatment with drugs can give us major challenges in the longer term. There is high pressure both in industry and in public authorities, and there is a common objective of limiting drug treatment. The size also said in the decision-making process that the research and development activity already in the industry is to be increased. My question to the Council of State is: how does the government want to increase the high pressure that the Council of State itself says is in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e580	We do that by providing a research budget for next year that is bigger than ever. Strong efforts are being made on measures to help bring about both new technologies and new operating methods, and on other measures to help combat loopholes. I agree that we have a resistance challenge in the Norwegian aquaculture industry today. There's another good reason why we have to make ourselves less dependent on the drugs that are currently used in lice control. The size has also asked for an action plan on resistance related to the farming industry, and it is a work that is in progress and on which we will deliver in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e585	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e588	A little lice can overturn a big growth, there's a danger now. Food surveillance has recently taken a number of decisions on depopulation as a result of high lice levels. This has to a large extent, after what I understand, ended up in trial and lawyer food. Two issues arise: the first is that the fish are standing in the mermaids and growing ready for slaughter during this process. The second is that it is demanding for the Food Authority to have financial resources to meet and follow up the decisions they have taken. I believe it is essential that the Food Authority has the opportunity to do so. My question to the Council of State is whether she can guarantee that the Food Safety Authority has the financial resources necessary to follow up the decisions taken by the Food Safety Authority on depopulation as a result of high lice levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e596	I have quarterly meetings with the Food Authority and the Marine Research Institute on the lice situation in the Norwegian farming industry. We also have a good dialogue with the Food Authority almost on a day-to-day basis. It is absolutely right that it is important that the Food Authority has enough resources to follow the industry as closely as necessary. I believe that the Food Authority has, based on the feedback I receive. But I am also concerned that the industry must take responsibility, that when the industry is ordered to slaughter because there is so much lice, it must follow it up and not start the road through the courts and contribute to making the situation even more serious. The industry itself has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e601	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e604	Now I think soon we can run a power plant at all times a fisheries minister has said that soon we will have to solve the lice problem. But as long as we fill the sea with ever more host animals and there's free access for a natural parasite into those host animals, we get more lice, and we get an ever greater problem removing them. When the Minister of Fisheries has to comfort us with, now there will be less lice left because it will go against winter, it will be a little comfort. The question that the Minister for Fisheries now has to answer is: if, at this time of next year too, we again experience such a huge lice problem as we have experienced this year and all the years before, what will the Minister for Fisheries do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e611	I have to stress that the picture is more nuanced. This year we have a lice level that lies below anywhere other than in Middle Norway, where we have had the big problem. There, the Food Authority has been ‘hands on’. That's where the fish are slaughtered, but a lot of problems have emerged in the wake of it, namely whether the preparedness is good enough. Are you sure you have enough wellboats available to quickly get rid of the fish that has so much lice on it that it needs to be slaughtered? Is that enough slaughterhouse capacity? We're working on this whole complex right now, because we also see that you're not just working with new methods, but it's now very much using new methods. We also see facilities that are so well equipped with e.g. clean fish that much of the lice problem is in the process of being resolved and well below the limits set by the authorities. The industry is doing a good job, but we see that in some geographical areas these problems have nevertheless been encountered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e616	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e619	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Let me first – while he comes in place – give praise to the Council of State for putting forward a solid research budget. At the same time, the part of the state budget that goes to research has fallen because the government spends many billions of oil and proposes large tax cuts. We are in front of a transformation of the Norwegian society, of the world of work and industry, where education, research and innovation become decisive factors for change. If we're to succeed in the green shift, a greater part of the pool of resources in society has to go to knowledge. But knowledge investments have to be used properly, if we're going to be able to convert. We have to make sure that the money we invest accelerates the green shift and does not slow it down. In this spring, we are discussing the long-term plan for research and higher education. Six areas were highlighted as important research initiatives. Seas, environment and enabling technologies were among the six. Petroleum was not named. Nevertheless, petro research is the major budget winner and the largest single effort in the government's research budget. The Demo 2000 programme, according to the State budget, is intended to increase the extraction of oil and gas and to relieve Norwegian oil and gas industries at a difficult stage. The programme will be added to the national budget of the year 100 million fresh. In comparison, the ENERGY and FME renewable programmes receive a much more modest increase. Thus, when recording at a historic climate summit in Paris, the government proposes to spend two and a half times as much on fossil research as on renewable research in the OED budget. Does the Council of State think that this priority will accelerate or delay the green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e632	First to the use of figures: it is important to have – as the government has communicated very clearly – that this is a budget adapted to the economic situation we are in. In other words, what we can call a package of measures on top of what can be called the usual budget for simplicity, and it is a package of measures that must be scaled down if economic times improve. Then there's probably a fundamental ideological, fundamental disagreement between the Socialist Left Party and the government as to what's the path to the green shift. I fully agree with the basic premise, namely that research, development and new technologies are crucial. It is not only our specific environmental technology research schemes, but also the research effort as a whole that is important. But then I also believe that research and development in the oil and gas industry is important, not only because it is an industry that is in transition right now and it is important to use funds for research and development – and it is particularly important that there is a strong public effort when the industry itself experiences a heavier economic situation – but also because one of the solutions, one of the ways into the green shift, must in the foreseeable future be to bring with it the oil and energy industries. There's a difference between the government and the Socialist Left Party, because I believe that one of the most important contributions we make globally, for example. is via clear political governance in Norway and producing and extracting oil and energy so that we release less than many other countries, to say it very simply. I believe that we need to bring with us the environments of competence, the technology environments, which are in the oil and energy industries, because in these very environments much of the basis for the green shift. So I believe that the commitment to petroleum research, alongside the other thing we do, is a good contribution – yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e643	Everyone agrees that we need the very high level of competence that is in the oil industry, for the green shift. But then a bet on the green shift and not on making the oil exploration the big winner in the budget. In our Group of Experts at the Council of Technology, Norway submitted the report after oil, in which they provide five policy advice to politicians. One of these advices is just to phase out support for oil exploration. As the expert group says: ‘Oil and gas is a mature industry with a strong economy. Societal economical research should also be economically attractive and can be carried out without public support. Public aid to petroleum activities contributes to the maintenance of the industry from which we are to convert.» In line with this, SV proposed to move the 300 million during the budget procedure last year. kr direct ear-marked oil exploration to the combined research pot of the Norwegian Research Council. Does the Council share the view of the expert group that oil research support should be phased out in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e655	I don't, and it's not government policy – it's possible it's the Socialist Left Party's policy – to cut research and development funds into the oil and energy industry at a time when that industry is undergoing heavy, heavy transition. I think it is with respect to report that it also makes the other concerns that SV sometimes have in this room, about increasing unemployment, about the major migration challenges that particularly affect the South and Western countries, which are very dependent on oil and energy, become a little bit hollow when one wants to cut at the first crossroads – yes, even radical, dramatic cuts – in just research, innovation and innovation in these sectors. I mean, as I said also, as I said in the previous answer, that overall we are going to have an oil and gas industry and use oil and gas in the world at least in our lifetime and even longer. The gas is going to last a long time. And not using the oil and energy industry, not having research and development in that industry, is not going to be this government's policy, and I hope it won't be a possible future red government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e662	It opens for follow-up questions - first Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e665	In this room there are many good decisions taken, and in the first climate agreement, from 2008, it says: ‘The public contributions related to research on new renewable energy sources shall by 2010 at least be at the level of the corresponding public contribution to petroleum research.’;» Both the SV and the Right were involved in this reconciliation, and to follow it up, the red-green government ensured that the efforts for renewable research were tripled until the next climate settlement in 2012. In the second climate agreement too, research into renewable energy was concentrated by a joint committee. It was common perception that during climate change, it was a good idea to strengthen renewable research rather than petroleum research. Will the Council respond to me, with the sharp increase in this budget for oil and gas research: how does the balance between renewable and fossil research now stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e676	There are several concrete investments in climate research in this budget. There is also a strengthening of important climate schemes, environmental technology schemes. Climate and environmental research is one of the main areas of the long-term plan, which is also followed up in the annual budgets. The exact balance sheet, which the representative asks for, I have to admit that I do not have in my head now, so I may have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e681	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e684	In the government budget presented by the government, it is almost alarming how little government uses higher education as a means of conversion. There are very few new study places in the budget – 350 to PPU, 50 to medicine and psychology. Earlier in the period, the government has provided virtually no new study places – 24 study places are almost zero. There is also a lack of funding for structural reform, which will form the basis for future higher education and research. The fact that governments do not use higher education to a greater extent as a means of combating unemployment and conversion is really a lost chance. My question to the Council of State is: Addressing the increased unemployment rate, addressing the need for skills in the labour market, looking up the higher application rates in higher education — record increases in higher education, there are many thousands who do not have room for manoeuvre — the Council of State believes that, for example: more than one study place is a good tool in the fight against unemployment and for migration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e689	I believe that knowledge and commitment is an important tool. But using study places solely as counter-cyclical measures is more skeptical to me. I believe that there are the most important schemes we have, schemes for shorter continuing training, arrangements for conversion and training at the workplace – there are some schemes, such as: The fact that we are now trying to get more of those who lose their jobs to take a small additional education to school, which may be important. But I don't think a sharp increase in the number of study places is the right medicine now. I also have to ask the Labour Party, when talking about places of study, if you think about places of study only in the UH sector. If I were to think of places to study, I would, for example, intended for specialised schools. I noticed that, for example, the Joint Association, which had its annual meeting not so long ago, wanted more places to study, but was explicit that it had to be at the technical school, i.e. workplace-related and practical places. It may be a proposal that we can assess in the future. Furthermore, it is only to note that the leader of the Research Association believes that structural reform is now well funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e698	Martin Henriksen gets to answer somewhere other than here. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e703	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries: In the FiskeriblagetFiskaren on Friday 9 October, we could read the headline «Pinglet on Research». In the same newspaper, the title is «Creative accounting». If we see the fisheries and aquaculture area as a whole, the budget is actually reduced by 36.5 million. kr, and the government is moving the funds that come from the increase in research fees to other items, and pretending this is a plus for other good purposes. Nearly 150 million. Of the 170, SEK comes from re-posting of the research fee and its increase. What is going to go to other marine research and development is still in the ministry's budget, and the Directorate for Fisheries gets a cut of 0.5 pst. No, these are not just my words, but a quote from the leader of the Fishingblad on October 9th. In the same newspaper, on the first page, we can also read about ethnics about the hoarding of investment in infrastructure measures. Lack of willingness to invest in marine nutrition, research, knowledge – it is also published in the year’s budget from the Right and the Advance Party. We can establish that the government's commitment to the marine nutrition is only for use in party speeches, and only words, not actions. When will the government show action, and when will we see a real investment in the seafood industry, which they often like to talk about as a future industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e712	There can be no doubt that the budget currently presented is a budget for work, activity and conversion. It's a strong research budget. It was shown earlier here today that for the first time the research budget passes 1.1 pst. GDP, and it is a historical investment. It is also a fact that marine research is heavily invested. The previous two years have totaled 110 million. kr, and next year's budget has an increase of 170 million. for research. One hundred million. kr is to upgrade our research vessels, which are absolutely vital infrastructure for us to get resource research and get the important action to work well also in the time to come. So it's set at 22 million. to strengthen marine research and to improve the knowledge base for the follow-up to the EEAG, to increase research targeting the marine food industry and technology, and to research us into the development of new marine industries. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that part of the increase in next year's budget comes from the industry in the form of an extended basis and a cautious increase in the rate of the research fee. It's a reality that if the ambition is for business to do more of the research itself, the public has spent a lot of money on the table for a long time without saying that the industry has contributed as much as it should. So that's the background because we're increasing the fee a little bit. And then it's good that Norwegian fishing industry is doing so well that the first-time value also makes more money available for resource research next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e725	It helps the marine feed little when they get a reduction in their total budget of 36,5 million. kr. And we don't know enough about the stand in the sea, we can at least be a few about it – this despite the fact that we have the world's best marine research. Maybe we have large fish resources that we actually don't use well enough because we don't research enough, or maybe we don't do the right research. We have also been able to get stuck in some kind of research street for many years. We should like to get a second opinion by also asking other people than the Marine Research Institute to look at the research methods, to collect data, for example. NTNU or SINTEF. Another example is that we don't use enough of the data that the fishermen actually collect today – this by combining the fish, using the knowledge of their fishermen’s data better – for a dozen million people quickly give hundreds of millions of people back to society. What has been a recurring theme in these years on Aspaker's watch is, of course, a lack of resource research, and we have heard today that aquaculture should be given priority. What is the Minister's response to getting resource research more robust?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e736	I mean, it's investing in resource research. Among other things, I have establish an Advisory Forum for Resource Research. This means that fishermen and researchers now sit around the same table two to three times a year to discuss how to make even more use of data from fishermen in their daily activities, together with the research carried out by the Institute of Marine Research. So I want to remind you that this is essentially a total of 3.6 billion. The pot for marine research in Norway, so a great deal of effort is being made. Of course, you can always want to do more, but I remember that we have good programmes within the Research Council, and the Institute of Marine Research is doing a solid job within the framework they have, and also within the increased framework they get next year. So I think we are well rusted and well able to do the important job it is to get the best possible data for us to be able to harvest the best possible and sustainable from the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e745	It opens for follow-up questions – first Odd Omland.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e748	It is up to the Minister for Fisheries to provide the Norwegian maritime food industry with the framework conditions and infrastructure referred to in the main question. In its fisheries policy platform, the Workers' Party has underlined that the maritime food industry is dependent on a well-functioning infrastructure, that both summer and winter maintenance is at a high level by public investment in fishing ports. We oppose the transfer of fishing ports to the municipalities, but that these must be a state responsibility and that they meet the requirements of safety and service. This year's draft budget shows that the government cuts grants of 60 million. kr to fishing ports. In the FiskeribladetFiskaren 9 October we see strong reactions. The question then arises: is the Minister for Fisheries concerned about how this can affect the ability of municipalities to organise infrastructure in fishing ports?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e758	Fishing ports have been important in local coastal economic development. We know that we have a system that goes back to the middle of the 1800s. But it is not right as it is made here that it is not still being invested in fishing ports. Two major projects are launched in 2016, in Mehamn and in Båtsfjord. We have a list of five to six other ports where projects are under way and are to be continued and completed next year. The government has proposed to liquidate entry 60. I record that there is a significant discussion about it, but I think it is important that the municipalities also think that this is a type of organisation that they are going to contribute to the development of this industry. I remind you that there is still an entry with a significant effort to develop the fishing ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e767	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e779	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the list of questions drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e786	‘The Council of State has shown that the Husbank and their loan arrangements are important in increasing the take-up of housing, thus facilitating the work of municipalities in resettlement of refugees. Are the terms of the various loan arrangements in the House Bank adapted to the need to finance the refurbishment of existing residential buildings and other properties that can be included in municipal housing for refugees, and if not, what will the Council of State do to give the House Bank a more central role in the work of several residences for the settlement of refugees?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e793	It is an important and good question that is raised by the representative, but let me just start by saying that an important starting point for a good settlement of refugees is that we have a well-functioning housing market. It is an overall goal for the government in our daily work. However, we see that the housing market in Norway consists of many small local housing markets and that the challenges may be different between municipalities. Many municipalities lack housing that can be used at short notice for this purpose. In the field of housing policy, we have a broad range of instruments that can be applied in the current situation. An important instrument is the Bank's basic loan. This Debt facility may finance both the construction and the repair of dwellings. In the area of remediation, there is an opportunity to obtain basic loans for the conversion of other building stock into dwellings. At the end of August, a basic loan was granted to repair 1,129 dwellings. This is to make good use of the base loan, with its favourable loan terms. In its toolbox, the House Bank also has several loan and grant schemes that can be used to settle refugees in addition to the basic loan. First of all, I would like to mention the rental housing grant scheme, which, through the proposal in the supplementary proposal from the Ministry of Justice, is being increased for the third time this year. Thus, in the current year, grants could be granted for the establishment of more than 1700 rental dwellings. This addition is intended to take account of today's demand from the municipalities. I would also like to mention that recently several rental homes have been built under the direction of private operators, where municipalities have an estimated 30-40 pst. of the dwellings. These projects are financed by basic loans, not grants. Thus, the base loan is used in a good way. I would also like to highlight the Husbanken's invitation to the municipalities to increase the flow of the municipally disposed dwellings by enabling households as tenants of the municipality to purchase their own housing using start-up loans and/or start-up grants. The house bank also provides guidance on how municipalities can help municipal tenants by finding suitable housing in the private rental market. Furthermore, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, at its hearing, has proposals for the simplification of existing buildings in the building regulations, SAK10, and construction regulations, TEK10. The hearing included: proposed to ease room height, view, daylight, etc. requirements to facilitate the implementation of measures in existing dwellings, such as: to turn the unfurnished basement into a residential area. These proposals will be implemented from 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e813	In the hearing last week, in the context of the additional appropriations for refugee measures, it was emphasised by both the Council of State and the Director of the Bank of Husbank that the loan arrangements and housing support of the House Bank were very important in order to increase the provision of housing in the municipalities. In the 2016 government budget, the loan framework of the Husbank has been reduced from 20 billion. DKK to 18 billion kr. This will mean that the House Bank will finance fewer dwellings, one will have to count on an increased pressure in the housing market, and it will make it more difficult to obtain rental homes. Does the Council share my concern there? The estimated amount of housing aid is also reduced in next year's budget, and it has been well known over several years that housing is the main obstacle to housing and that municipalities are afraid to accept it. How does this harmonize with the increase in residence of refugees in municipalities and the expected increase in housing aid applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e820	Let me first say that we believe the Husbank's loan framework for next year is well adapted to the demand that was at the time the government made its assessments. As I also referred to in my post, there are a number of different arrangements the municipalities can use, not only to build municipal rental properties, but also to use the private rental market. Then we believe that housing can be a good arrangement. The housing aid is a regulated scheme where the appropriations will meet demand and be granted to those who meet the requirements. We will strengthen housing support for the next year, especially for poor families with children – some areas will be able to get up to 5,000 extra in housing support – and this is to help those with the biggest challenges on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e825	The Prime Minister, in his statement yesterday, made it clear that the great influx that we are seeing now requires us to think differently about the settlement of refugees, and that we need to look at other standards in terms of housing — even tent camps were mentioned. That's something that I'm initially skeptical about. At least that has to be definitely the last way out, but maybe we have to evaluate it as well. The centre party has launched an integration billion, some of which will be used to rebuild the vacant housing stock for faster settlement. The house bank does not have an arrangement where it is possible to grant restructuring funds to individuals entering into long-term leases, where they are obliged to rent for a certain period of time. We think it should be in place to repair private homes for refugee homes. Does the Council agree with me that there is a better response than tent clays, initially?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e832	Yeah, most of it's better than tent clay. If this should be the case, it's because it's required. In the situation we're in now, I think we should appreciate the creativity that's also out in the municipalities. There are many good suggestions from local authorities on how to move more quickly. The head of the house bank has also encouraged municipalities to promote their applications, and it will be possible to meet the demands of the legislation and the requirements of today. The Governor of the House Bank has underlined that there is an action room within today's legislation. Of course, we will continue to assess whether there is a need to make regulatory changes in order to deal with the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e841	‘The swallowing society is in a difficult situation as a result of falling coal prices and associated downgradings in the coal industry. What does the government do to secure the future of Svalbard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e848	Thank you very much for a question about a very important matter. Difficult market conditions have led the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Grubekompani to a very difficult economic situation. On this basis, the government proposed in the spring of 2015 to strengthen the liquidity of the mining company by 500 million. kr through the loan and purchase of property from the Great Norwegian Group. Unfortunately, market conditions have worsened further in the following months and up to the present day, and price expectations for coal have been revised in the future. Therefore, in September 2015, the board of directors of the company concluded that there is currently no financial basis for further re-examination and operation in the Lunckefjell mine. There is now a dialogue between the Governing Board and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, where we include: discusses operational adaptations. The company has received acceptance from the department and its banking connection so that it does not produce a panel in Lunckeberg which is already in the driveway. We also discuss the possibility of operating rest in Svea and Lunckefjell with the associated capital needs as well as other alternatives. In other words, the situation in the company is very challenging. We will make careful assessments of the different options for future operations and activities in Great Norwegian. In these assessments, we're going to focus on swallowing policy issues, as well as business. This is a big and comprehensive case, and it is too early to say anything about when the department's assessment will be ready, but let me stress that we are working as quickly as possible, and the government will appropriately return to the Stortinget on the matter. The government is busy with Svalbard and the Longyearbyen community. We want a development that supports the overall objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy. An important part of this is to maintain both economic activity and residence on Svalbard. Traditionally, our presence at Svalbard has been based on cooperation between research, education, travel and coal operations. As coal production is now reduced, it is natural to consider the need for conversion to other industrial activities, and the government also assesses possible conversion measures. At the same time, the government is producing a new big business message about Svalbard. The development of the Great Norwegian population and the need for migration for the Longyearbyen community will, of course, be important issues in the communication. At the same time, the swallowbard policy picture is complex. There are trends and challenges that require an overall approach. We will carry out an overall review of the Norwegian svalbard policy in the reporting process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e865	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that the market conditions underpinned in the spring of 2015 made mistakes. It got worse than one had feared. The more important it is, therefore, in my view, that one now speeds up with other measures. It may seem long to have to wait for an overall big message about Svalbard. In the budget presented, a few traces of follow-up are found to ensure the presence and sovereignty of Svalbard. I think the statement about mining is good, but as far as the other areas are concerned, I wonder when the Storting can expect a case about them, and what tracks the government is working for in those areas. I would like the Minister of Industry to elaborate on something.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e874	We're in a hurry. We have now dealt quickly with an enquiry from the board in January, which was cleared up by the Stortinget in ours, with the help of the nutrition committee and the Stortinget, and we received new enquiries in September related to the drive panel, which we have resolved with the board, and we are now working on the matter relating to whether to enter into an operating rest or other alternatives. We're evaluating several alternatives. Our responsibility in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries is Great Norske, but we see that this is linked to many other circumstances. That's what we're assessing. So we're now going to have to clarify the situation of Great Norwegian quickly – we're talking about over the course of weeks. At the same time, we work with the general svalbard issues in a staggering message, and the Ministry of Justice is the Department of Leadership and has the greatest responsibility. That message will come to spring. But already we're going to have to do a lot of assessments that go beyond the business, as I explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e881	I thank you again for the answer. I think the Council of State is right in saying that many good forces must work together for the benefit of the swallowing society. There has been a choice at Svalbard, and I would like to hear a little about the cooperation you have with the board of Great Norwegian and the company. What cooperation and contact does the government have with the local government at Svalbard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e890	We have had ongoing contact with the local government, and I have met with local government on several occasions, both here in Oslo and at Svalbard. We received a business report from the local government last August, which we have been working on, but we have been disturbed by the other issues in Great Norwegian that have had to be prioritised. So we have continuous contact, as well as telephone contact with the local government, when necessary. It's very important to us. As far as the board of directors of Great Norske is concerned, it is probably one of those companies – not to say the company – we have had the most frequent contact with, simply because the situation has required it. So we want to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e904	‘In 2004, child protection was always required by law to check whether a relative could be a foster home before a child is placed in the front. Recently, several issues have been mentioned in the media where care placements have taken place without family evaluation. Only every five children are placed with relatives. According to the NRK on 23 September, the members do not check whether genealogical position has been assessed, nor do they carry out such supervision. How will the Council of State ensure that child protection follows the lineage assessment requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e911	I would first like to thank the representative for a good question. This is a theme that is now taking me on as a state council, and it did when I was in opposition. It is important that child protection does what they have been informed about, and they should always assess whether there are any members of the child’s family or network that may be foster homes. This is very clear and clearly defined in the foster home code. At the same time, not all children are best at foster homes with family or close networks. Therefore, child protection should also always consider what will be best for the child. If it is obvious that the family cannot be foster parents, the child protection service shall not initiate extensive processes to monitor the child’s family. However, I am pleased to note that an increasing number of children who need foster homes are moving in foster homes with relatives or networks. This applies over 27 pst. by children living in foster homes. We know that children who move into foster homes with relatives or networks are more likely to do better. We also know that some municipalities have become more aware of the use of family and network foster homes. The development there is very clearly linked to the use of family councils. The role of the county council is primarily to make a concrete assessment of the issues raised by the parties. If the private party submits a claim that the child is going to a particular foster home, the county council will consider whether the home can then be a foster home. I would also like to stress that the administrative and political management of the municipality is responsible for the municipality's carrying out its duties, including in this area. Staff shall supervise the performance by municipalities of the tasks assigned to them by the Law on the Protection of the Child. The government is also working with a foster home message, where we will clarify the responsibilities of municipalities and the importance of assessing the child's family and close networks as foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e926	Thanks for the answer. I consider this to be the case when it comes to the issue that comes up after several issues in the media, where close family members come up and tell them about issues where they are not evaluated, and they also do not get an explanation as to why they are not assessed, that the weakness of the system is that child protection does not follow the 2004 directive and always assess whether the child can be placed with relatives or close family members. Then you have to agree that today's practice is too bad, and my question was what the Council of State would do: Should the councils check this better, or should the councillors check this better?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e933	It is worrying that child protection in the municipalities does not follow the regulations and the law that are there, and that is something that concerns me. That is why I am very pleased that we have now given clear signals in the letter of assignment to the directorate that they will work out professional recommendations to the municipalities, so that the municipalities know what they have to do with. But the law is very clear, that the municipalities should look into family and networks before they make a location. I would like to refer to the municipality of Horten, where the head of child protection – for this is also about management – says that he refuses to sign care acceptance documents before the employees can prove that they have seen in the family and networks before going to another care takeover.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e940	My impression is that there is a practice out there that is such that one does not follow what the Storting has adopted and that has come in the form of regulations. Then there are different ways a government council can help ensure that the practice is as we wish, whether it is in the form of letters, in letters of assignment or whatever. I could wish that the Council of State said something more specifically about what the department will do to strengthen that practice, and not just show it to the municipality, even if it does. I notice that the director of the county council said in the NRK that they have no practice today to go in and check whether this has been carried out in the child protection service. So I feel that no one is exercising the control that is needed to get a practice that is in line with what... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e947	Councillor Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e950	There's a failure in the system. We make laws, we have regulations, we have circulars, and then it's up to the municipalities to follow the law. Then it is the county councillors who are to oversee the municipalities as to whether they follow the law. Here we have to see if we have to ask the statesmen, when they supervise, that they specifically go in and oversee the municipalities about whether they use family and networks as foster homes. It is important that they investigate it and assess whether there is a possibility there today. So to the councillors, they're a court-like device, so we can't go in and instruct the councillors. Then we have to make a law change. But I can assure the representative that this is a topic that we are working on now, and we also need to look at how we can make it much clearer to give the leaders to the municipalities. I want to challenge both councillors, rapporteurs and political leadership in the municipalities to actually put child protection on the agenda and to let them go in and watch and ask if there are used families and networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e961	The question to Minister for Agriculture and Food Listhaug is as follows: ‘Today we have three very dominant food chains in Norway. According to the NRK, the government will not promote a new law on good trade practices, despite advice from the Food Law Committee and concerns from the Matkette Committee. One instrument is to lower the threshold for dominant players in the industry from 40 to 30 per cent, as in Finland, but the Greens were voted down when we proposed this. How will the Council of State ensure better competition, consumer power and efficiency in the daily food industry, as requested by the Stortinget in February of this year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e970	On 12 February 2015, the European Parliament adopted a request decision asking the Government to propose measures to improve competition and the efficiency of the food market. The government has been working on this for a while, and the background for it to take time is that there are complex issues. For example, a law of good trade in itself will not lead to increased competition in the daily food sector but regulate the relationship between the food chains and the supplier industry. This is why the government has always said that there is a need to assess other measures in addition to assessing whether a law of good trade is what is needed to improve the competitive situation. As is known by the NRC, the four bourgeois parties in the Stortinget now agree on what should be done further in order to improve the competitive situation in the daily food sector. It is natural that the four parties are given the opportunity to present these proposals in a suitable manner and at an appropriate time. When these proposals are available, the government will return to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e977	Thank you for a neat answer, which I look forward to following up. The relationship is that the Competition Act and the Competition Authority must ensure that all competition throughout the Norwegian market is good for all goods and services. We have a very concentrated grocery market, which has evolved under existing supervision and under existing legislation. Does this not seem to the Council of State to testify that these regulations do not work well enough for the food market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e984	As I hear it now, the representative wants to advance the proposals that the four parties will put forward. I think that's a little too early. I think the most neat thing now is that you first have to present the proposals, and then you have to discuss them afterwards. I believe there are several ways to achieve this, and what is the goal is to bring about better competition on the groceries market. I think it was positive to listen to the news today that, for example. network trading is increasing and more actors are growing within that segment. That means that there will be some more competition in the sector, and it seems to be a segment that can also grow in the years to come. We're going to have a lot of discussions about this when that time comes, but I think it's right that the four parties get to present it first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e991	One of the things that emerged in the news about online commerce this morning was that the daily food industry was not the least afraid of the competition that online commerce will represent on the food market. They obviously looked forward to retaining their position without particularly serious problems. In this situation, both small and large suppliers report major market access problems because they are afraid of the big players in the three major chains. Other countries have met. by introducing a food retailer. Although the Council of State is not to answer yes or no to whether it intends to introduce a food retailer, is the question: is this one of the measures that the Council of State will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e998	Now the four parties will be asked what they agree on on the civil side is the right way forward to increase competition in the daily food sector. In the case of online commerce, it now passed 1 billion. kr. It is a modest amount in this market, but at the same time, if you look at the everyday life of most people, where the time squeeze is an ever-increasing challenge for more families, it may well be that in the future this will become a growing sector. I hope that this will contribute to increased competition. We're going to do more things, but we're going to have to let the four parties present first in an appropriate way and at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1009	‘The presence of antibiotic-resistant intestinal bacteria in Norwegian poultry and poultry meat is a threat to public health. [[ESBL-producing and quinolone-resistant E. coli]] The antibiotic narasin is marketed in Norway as a coccidiostat with antibacterial effects. Narasin was patented as an antibiotic in the United States on 3 August 1982. Does the Council of State believe that narasin is not an antibiotic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1016	The feed additive narasin is not classified in Norway and the EU as an antibiotic but as a coccidiostat. Coccidiostats are substances that act against coccidia. Coccidials are single-celled organisms that act as indigestion in the intestines of some animals, in particular chickens for fattening. Narasin is used routinely to prevent intestinal disease. The Code on the authorisation and use of additives in feedingstuffs is part of the EEA Agreement. It is known that narasin also has an antibacterial effect, and some studies indicate that the use of narasin may have an impact on the development of antibiotic resistance, but there is a need for more knowledge. There is no evidence that narasin is relevant to the type of antibiotic resistance found in Norwegian chicken. The Food Authority has asked the Scientific Committee on Food Safety to take a closer look at this, and answers are expected during 2015. According to the Institute for Public Health, no adverse health effects on humans have been demonstrated as a result of the use of narasin in poultry. However, the industry has taken consumer concerns about narasin seriously and is working to phase out the use of this feed additive. This is good and also in line with the new national antibiotic resistance strategy 2015–2020. Several producers are now offering meat from chickens reared without the use of narasin. Some experts claim that narasin is important for the management of good animal health. If this substance is banned in the production of chicken meat, we are at risk of increased antibiotic use. Therefore, more knowledge is needed to conclude on good alternatives to the use of narasin in chicken feed. The government has intensified research in this field because we want to help find answers to many questions related to chicken production. A four-year research project is under way at the Veterinary Institute in cooperation with the NMBU, the University of Ghent and the Norwegian meat and feed industry to provide more knowledge of alternatives to the use of coccidiostats in chicken production. I will closely monitor developments in this area, and I will take any regulatory action if the Scientific Committee's assessment or other knowledge so warrants. The status report NORM-VET 2014 confirms that antibiotic resistance is a limited problem among animals in Norway. It is due to low antibiotic consumption. Norway and the other Nordic countries are favourably compared to the significantly higher consumption of antibiotics seen in other countries. Restrictive antibiotic use must be maintained in order to maintain the favourable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1035	According to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the Council of State may choose not to answer a question. But if the Council of State is to answer questions, which were now asked, then an answer to the question has to be no other answer. What is a fact is that Norway has registered narasin as did the EU, and thus it was also authorised for marketing in Norway as a coccidiostat with antibacterial effects. But the fact is that the same substance, narasin, is patent-approved in the United States, and according to the document it says under the heading «Process for preparing narasin»: «This intervention is related to a new microbiological process for the preparation of the antibiotic narasin. Narasin is a known polyether antibiotic.» Is the Council of State familiar with the fact?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1045	So we are dealing with the EU, which has approved this as a feed additive. We're part of the EEA Agreement, where this is part of it. I believe, on the contrary, that I answered the question very clearly. We know too little, we get more knowledge. This government has allocated a lot of money to research to find out more. Secondly, I was very clear that if we get knowledge that means we should take some authority action against narasin, we're going to do that, and thirdly, I'm also clear that we need to know more before we do, because we can risk, whether we ban narasin, that we have to use more antibiotics instead, which can be much worse overall, both for public health and for Norwegian chicken production. That is why I believe I replied very clearly. We need to know more before we possibly act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1052	According to Norwegian law, the feeding of antibiotics to our domestic animals is prohibited. It is a responsibility that the Council of State has to follow up. In the case of antibiotics to be administered to domestic animals, it must be prescribed by a veterinarian to treat a disease. When there is a fact that narasin is a patent-approved antibiotic, it is what needs to be taken into account in the practice of Norwegian law. If the Council of State does not do so, through its concealment here of the professional fact, the Council of State will contribute to the use of antibiotics in Norwegian livestock farming, and one of the major international challenges is the reduction of antibiotic use. What does the Council of State say about the fact?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1057	It would be thought that the representative Lundtigen has information that no Norwegian researchers have an overview of. The fact is, we know too little. That's what our professionals say. We need more knowledge before we possibly have to go in and ban a substance that has been authorised as a coccidiostat in the EU. If this is banned and the result is increased use of antibiotics, the whole point is that it can lead to a deterioration in public health and a deterioration in chicken production compared to what is today. I'm glad that consumers now pusher, that those who produce chicken, try this out on a larger and larger scale. We need that. We need the Scientific Committee on Food Safety to go through this. We also need more research in this area, and that's exactly what this government adds to: more research, more knowledge, so we make research-based and knowledge-based decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1064	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-14.ana.ud2128e1077	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
