ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e86	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, applied for sick leave from 9 June until further notice. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara Representative Steinar Reiten is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Steinar Reiten is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e117	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e128	Initially, we tried through this to get a wider majority of the messages. We didn't do that, but I want to thank you again for the good cooperation that enabled us to move it significantly. We had a number of laps on it, but regardless of that, there's a clear majority and a minority in the committee. The aim of the community reform is to ensure good and equivalent services for citizens, overall and coordinated social development, sustainable and economically robust municipalities and to strengthen local democracy. The overall objective is to strengthen municipalities as service producers, authority providers, community developers and democratic arenas. The majority indicate that society has evolved significantly since the last municipal reform, in the 1960s, and that municipalities are getting more and more demanding jobs. Many municipalities are too small today to carry out large and demanding tasks that are vital to the well-being of their citizens. The ever-increasing scale of inter-municipal cooperation creates challenges for local democratic governance and control of the provision of services. Furthermore, it is a challenge that local boundaries do not correspond to today’s natural housing and labour market regions. This prevents overall societal planning and development, which is essential to meet the needs of the future for housing, environmentally friendly transport solutions and economic development. The majority point out that the aim of the municipal reform is to enable municipalities to carry out these tasks in a better way, so that citizens can get better services and municipalities are better equipped to meet the challenges of the future. Greater municipalities with stronger skills and more resources have a better chance of providing good services to their citizens and of driving forward societal development. This will also strengthen the municipalities as the local democratic arena and lay the basis for limiting state detail management and giving municipalities a greater room for action to find good and forward-looking solutions. I believe that the transfer of new tasks to larger municipalities is a central part of the municipal reform. More power and authority for municipalities is a key element of the reform, and larger municipalities will then be more responsible for larger tasks. The transfer of new tasks helps to strengthen local self-government and to shift more power closer to the population. The principle of the generalist municipality is largely established as the main model for the municipal sector. One would stress the importance of establishing individual rights for users. Furthermore, the transfer of tasks assumes that the resources follow tasks transferred to the municipalities. The county councils are now invited to participate in the municipal reform, and the government aims to present a proposal for a new elected level in spring 2017. The majority of the Committee points out that in 2014, municipalities in the country were invited to join a neighboring chat. We are pleased that most municipalities are already doing well in that process, and will give commendation to the municipalities for having shown local leadership. We also show that the statesmen and KS play an important role in that interaction. The members of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree that an investigation should be carried out on how to ensure quality of service and legal certainty for citizens through a cooperation rule. The majority also states that there should be three elected levels. The starting point is that the tasks and responsibilities added to the regional level are mainly related to the role of regional actors in social development. This will also include community-oriented service production. One is also positive that the county councils are now being invited into the municipal reform, and that the government will present propositions on this spring 2017. New tasks at regional level require that the process leads to fewer counties/regions of a certain size. The income system of the counties must be assessed in the light of a new regional structure. The tasks of a new regionally elected level will be reviewed, and proposals will be presented to the Stortinget in the spring of 2016. Furthermore, one is in favour of a pilot scheme with the transfer of greater responsibilities for child protection in municipalities with sufficient capacity and competence. One has also pointed out that one comes back with a separate proposition on the subject of the concession treatment of some power plants, and that is not the case in connection with the case we are dealing with today. The majority further point out that we are positive that the government has launched a review of the planning and construction processes with a view to simplifying and improving them. The majority point out that in many cases the appeals of the county councillors in cases of dispensation involve unnecessary use of resources and excessive interference with the municipal self-government. Therefore, we point out that the government needs to assess how municipal autonomy can be strengthened through restrictions on the decision-making authority of county councils in cases of dispensation, and submit the assessment to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. The majority see it, among other things. as a matter of course, this shall not apply to matters relating to the construction of cultivated land and to matters relating to cultural memories and other national interests. The majority also point to the fact that responsibility for aids and long-term job creation is already partly a municipal responsibility, and users need a comprehensive offer. The aim of the studies is to find a natural balance between state responsibility and municipal responsibility. The attention of users shall be focused on the solution chosen. One further points out that responsibility for work and education travel remains a state responsibility, as this is a labour-oriented measure that fits within the Nav portfolio. There's a lot of interest around this with hunting and hunting times. We in the majority point out that it is natural for municipalities to decide for themselves. The majority – Right, Advance Party, Christian People’s Party and Left – point out that responsibility for higher education remains at a regional level. These members then refer to the current test law, where the government can assess such attempts. It is already there and has been there for ten years. If trials are to be undertaken, it must be demonstrated that all the students concerned are at least as well or better cared for as before. Furthermore, the same majority points out that responsibility for public transport remains generally at the regionally elected level. Responsibility for public transport may, in some respects, be transferred to larger municipalities under the conditions outlined in the notification and provided that a cooperation/partnership with the other county/region is included to ensure an overall collective offer in the region. The majority of the Committee considers that responsibility for dental care should be transferred to municipalities. Municipalities are free to organise responsibility either in their own direction, in cooperation with private/ideal organisations or in cooperation with other municipalities. The government needs to consider measures to facilitate the continuation of the environments of competence in regional centres of excellence and in the specialist dental services. Regarding the House Bank, we clearly say that this must be able to be transferred to the municipalities. The applicable universal design requirements are not thus amended by this distribution of responsibilities. We want a comprehensive assessment of Nav, and we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with proposals on how to better coordinate the municipal and state services. Furthermore, it has been pointed out that the possibility for municipalities to extend the area of self-sufficiency in water, sewerage and renovation through a more comprehensive environmental charge should be explored. The principle of self-sufficiency shall remain valid. We've pointed out a number of tasks that are transferred to the municipalities. We are clear that the regional State/State of the future should initially be responsible for supervision, control and preparedness and some guidance tasks. Tasks that facilitate the use of political judgement may, as a general rule, be considered for the purpose of transferring to a regionally elected level. It should be considered to limit the tasks of the counties in the field of industrial development, which we believe municipalities and counties are better placed to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e182	The case rapporteur has become known as a friend of the county councils and traveled country and beach around and spoke warmly for a regional reform. He was also concerned about this last year when we had the municipality proposal and discussed the first round of municipal reform. Then the representative said: ‘And it is vital that we look at, at the same time as the municipal reform, how we revitalise the elected level between the state and the municipality by establishing regions to replace the county municipalities.’ And... ‘In the context of the review of tasks, we shall conclude which tasks are to be added to the different levels.’ As far as I can see, there is no conclusion whatsoever as to the regionally elected level. To the extent that you're suggesting something, it's that you have to remove tasks and weaken the chosen level. My question to the representative is: are you satisfied with how you have revitalised the popularly elected regional level?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e197	Either the representative hears Sivertsen badly or he hasn't read the papers. There can be no doubt that it will be a revitalisation that a fuller of essential task portfolios from the State, as pointed out here, will be a notification of those tasks in 2016. Very familiar was it also a test of this when the previous government, the red-green, presented its regional reform in 2007 and how much came out of it. Many of those I turn to by red-green politicians say that we tried, but we had no chance of getting past, and especially not past the Workers' Party, when it came to doing something about the county level. Now it is a pleasure to see that the Labour Party also points to the same thing in the case we have today. It also provides for a wider majority and agreement on a task transfer from the State to the regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e204	Now I can assure the representative that I have read the full message. Besides, I hear well – I also have a medical certificate on it, which I can provide if it is important. The representative is much more concerned with discussing what happened in 2007, than talking about the regional reform for which he has made himself a spokesman. KS, as he himself described in his own post as an important co-player in what is going to happen, which has an important role to play, states that they are disappointed around the regional level. "We would like a more concrete and binding agreement," says KS. The representative here boasts of having revitalised the regionally elected level, but has still not demonstrated in any way that new tasks have been assigned to revitalise that level. On the contrary, instead of challenging two very central carriers in the ability of the regional level to drive social development. A solution will be found to the possibility for county councils to operate in higher education, and the collective responsibility of county councils will be resolved. How is the state-elected regional level revitalised by what has now been presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e211	To start over, if I spoke to Sivertsen less satisfactorily, as I understand he has a medical certificate that he hears well: adding tasks from the County Council until the regional level is proved enough in the notification. If we're not going to have processes that include the employees at all levels here, I think it's a little special that the Workers' Party is eager to initiate these types of processes by just pressing the 'go-button'. I think that's special. So also mentions Sivertsen in his line of advanced education. Very well known, the Test Act has also been in force under the previous governments. And here we're showing that it's still going to apply. How it is a hollowing out of the mid-level exercise of authority is a little incomprehensible, but the representative Sivertsen probably also has some answers to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e218	Yes, I do. What is open in this Communication is that some municipalities are no longer responsible for secondary education. The representative stated that in the cases where this is to be done, all students should be offered at least as well. If we are to be concrete on the task under discussion – not to add to the regional level, but to remove from the regional level, to the extent that it is a revitalisation – the representative said: All students should be offered at least as well. Can the representative reply: Is it also for apprentices, who are an essential part of the secondary education? Can the representative answer: What happens to those who do not live in the large municipalities and who need secondary education, those who live in the municipalities around them? How are they going to get an equally good offer, both school students and apprentices? We received a strong witness from the County Municipality of Hordaland, which has the country's second largest city in its county, where during the hearing the county rapporteur described in a good way what the consequences will be, and what loss you will get in higher education. Is this revitalising the elected regional level?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e223	I hear with interest that the representative Sivertsen does not include what I also said in a petition, about a better offer – an even better offer – for the students involved. So it's here in many ways an even clearer constraint than it has been in the past, when the representative Sivertsen's government set. I have also heard the testimony from Hordaland and many other county municipalities, and I can assure the representative Sivertsen that it is precisely that we do not want to fragment the offer that applies around the big cities. Therefore, it has also been said that it should be at least as good or a better offer to students who are in the surrounding municipalities. That's important to us, and that's why we've said it. In addition, as I pointed out, which has never been done before, we will never have been so clear in any message that has come to the Stortinget, just adding power to the regional level of the state. No one has been so clear. But Sivertsen is very sorry about that, I think it's remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e232	After the Committee's delegation meeting, the representative said that he was most satisfied with this matter, there was a clear transfer of authority from the State to regions and to municipalities. The result is that there is an entire mass to be assessed, an entire mass to be determined, and not something that has been clarified in terms of new tasks for the county. There is very little that has been clarified regarding new tasks for all municipalities. Right of marriage, notary public, distribution of facilities, etc. are purely regulatory tasks which have nothing to do with the exercise of authority, in my view. I would say that it was not this local politicians who were asking for power and authority over. What elements of this, which have been adopted and on which the municipalities can now be safe, does the representative now think they have more local authority over, and where is the state giving up power? In which areas is this clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e240	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e243	I talked to some of the central party rapporteurs the other day, who said that this was something they really wanted when an investigated regional reform, it was just getting transferred from the County Department of Agriculture, the Environment and the Planning Department, which was located at Fylkesmannen. We're very clear on what's coming in the message that's coming next year. If the representative Greni thinks this is coming short – when one did not come close to half as far as the government itself – I think it is alarming. If someone thinks that the problems around what I said instead are not essential tasks for the Center Party, I would like to have an answer to that. For our part – for the majority – this is important. We decentralize power, which then gets closer to the inhabitants. It's been the whole intention. There has also been the majority's intention in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e252	It seems that the representative of the Left has not been given the support of a government that wants to add secondary schools to the municipalities and wants to add public transport to the municipalities – and that there is a little difference in opening it up then, and opening it up in a government that did not want it. There are many other questions I'm worried about. The left has had a tradition where they've been very clear about the rights of the people. One of the systems we have to ensure it is that there should be state supervision, especially with services for people who have difficulties in their lives. But in the setting, the Left is involved in writing that the state supervision can be weakened or removed in the larger municipalities, because they are able to care for this sea. Does the Left really believe that large municipalities ensure the legal certainty of e.g. people with developmental disabilities or difficulties, and that they do not need supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e259	It's always a little interesting when you don't want to read the whole text, but reads – and relates to – parts of the text. As I have said before, the supervisory tasks are of course determined, in the sense that the County is to supervise, regardless of how large or small the municipality is. And then it comes back to this with high school. I think it's remarkable – from someone who put power in the eight years before today's government got on the track, even when the test law relating to high school was in force. What's in the text here is in many ways an even clearer constraint than what was in force then. How the representative Karin Andersen can then feel that it is a free slip – with the same regulation, the same practice and even more restraint in this than it was before – I have a little hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e269	When the government launched its municipal reform in the autumn of 2013, it was justified to strengthen local democracy. Most people would have increased influence over their own everyday lives and their own local environment, and municipalities would have more power and responsibility through more tasks. The message from the government has been that if the municipalities join together, they will have to decide more. Or, as the chairman of the Municipal Committee, of the Progress Party, decided in the Haugesunds Avis on 12 March this year: «The tasks are carrots». In other words, the government and government parties have made great expectations of what was to come in the task message. When the announcement was made by the municipal minister before Easter, he said nothing less than that the government's proposal represents the largest overall transfer of tasks. In retrospect, he cannot respond correctly to how he has calculated himself until then, and the question is whether someone out there is going to notice it. For the reality behind the mayor's great words is that civil marriages and so-called notary transactions are to be transferred to the municipalities of the state. A small majority in the UK are in favour of transferring the responsibility for dental and volunteering centres to the municipalities and for investigating where responsibility for permanently organised jobs and basic facilities should lie. In other words, there is no reason to use more large words if the long notice of the task transfer. A big hieroglyph to say nothing – it is probably the most comprehensive description of what the task message has done. Nevertheless, there is reason to problematise several of the changes to be made. In my opinion, the starting point for the debate we have in Stortinget today on the large public organisation map must be to look for better solutions where we see that things are not working well enough today. The aim of the changes must be to provide better services to the population. At least that's the starting point of the Workers' Party. But already there we and the right parties separate layers, the right parties believe that the problems have to be carrots for structural changes. It's turning things upside down, it's putting the structures and systems at the centre of the policy. But there are the people who have to be. The six-year reform, the HVPU reform, the hospital reform and the interaction reform are all examples of labour party-initiated reforms that have not as a starting point to add or remove tasks from a level of government but to make everyday life better for individuals. That perspective is lacking in the government's municipal reform, unfortunately – which when the majority of the population wants to change the organisation of aids and long-term organised jobs, to large protests from them, to protests from the trade unions and from many of the municipalities, or when the majority of the population now decides to transfer the dental services from the municipalities to the municipalities. It appears primarily as a political victim in order for the government to be able to say that at least one task of a certain size was found that the municipalities could get. But it's hard to see how it's supposed to strengthen local democracy, and even more difficult to see how it's going to contribute to better teeth. In my own county, Finnmark, the county council has been working for a long time to get a good professional environment, better dental treatment coverage and cleaning up the dental clinics. The Finnish county council has just decided to develop new clinics in Tana, Kautokeino and Vadsø – small municipalities all – with a price tag of 86 million. kr. Would these municipalities themselves afford to build new municipal clinics if they had been responsible? And what will be the consequence of shifting the responsibility for dental care from a large and robust professional community with 140 employees in the county to a smaller professional community in 19 municipalities, with very large differences between themselves and not least very large distances between them? There are questions we can think about and think a lot about, but we don't have answers to today. The majority of the population has also not stressed the requirement of, among other things, The Dental Association that this needs to be further investigated before deciding on a reorganization. But the majority of the population have obviously seen that there is a problem here, and it is clear that they need to be solved by greater use of private actors and more inter-municipal cooperation, even though the Right and Advance Party in most other contexts, almost on the other side of the vote, believe that inter-communal solutions are poor and undemocratic. But here, obviously, ideological opposition to the county council has thwarted all other considerations. That procedure is irresponsible, and the Workers' Party refuses to move dental health to the municipalities. We also believe that higher education and public transport are tasks that need to be addressed regionally. That is why we want those tasks to remain regionally organised and not be able to be transferred to individual municipalities. For the Workers' Party, it is an important principle that the division of tasks should contribute to a living democracy and that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned, in the most effective and unbureaucratic manner possible. Political judgement to be exercised in municipalities and counties must be carried out as far as possible by elected bodies, and we therefore wanted the Stortinget to make it clear today that regional agricultural tasks, the environment and other tasks that require regional judgement will be transferred to popular governance. We wanted to strengthen the regional research funds, preserve regional influence in Innovation Norway and seek new responsibilities between municipalities, regions and countries in the cultural field. It is with a certain surprise that I record that we do not get the bulk of the population with us on this. Instead, the Christian People's Party and the Left have thanked the non-binding wording to ask the government to determine whether any new tasks can be transferred to the regional level, but they will not agree to decide that this will actually happen. I would remind you that after their municipal political conference last autumn, the Right concluded that they would retain the county council, but empty it for tasks. It is not surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party follow up that position in government and through the mission message, but it is very surprising that the Christian People's Party and the Left are on the load. When the government's long announced task assignment to the municipalities ended up with weddings and teeth, one must be of the very optimistic type in order to believe that a government consisting of two parties that will shut down the county municipality will come back next year with proposals for tasks and responsibilities that will really strengthen regional democracy. The Workers' Party will maintain the principle that all municipalities are responsible for the same tasks, in order to ensure equivalent services, equal democratic rights, minimum bureaucracy and transparent administration. We do not want a development towards A, B and C municipalities, but we fear that it is your majority that will now lead us, through the proposals it now supports for higher education and public transport, and with standard formulas that the tasks to be given to the municipalities will be transferred exclusively to so-called larger municipalities. Finally, in parallel with the examination of the notification of tasks by the Municipal Committee, there are a number of other processes affecting the municipalities and their responsibilities in different ways. Governmenting the tax collection is an example of that, and here I would like to commend the Christian People's Party and the Left for stopping that process. Unfortunately, they have not done the same with the government's new private school law. I look forward to hearing the justification from the respective parties that make up the bulk of the population today, as to how they relate to our proposal that municipalities should have the last word when it comes to setting up the new private schools to which it is now open. Then I will address the proposal that the Labour Party has made on its own, and the proposals that we have made with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e299	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e304	In the last months and the last year, the representative of the Labour Party has been commendably involved in the volunteering line of the municipal reform – that it should be based on volunteering and that the line should be kept. And then you've also sometimes tried to accuse the government of not doing that. On page 56 of the setting, the Workers' Party writes the following: ‘The government is asking for a separate establishment of a regionally elected level in the capital area. The aim is to merge the minimum Oslo and Akershus County Municipality, possibly also larger parts of the Capital Region.» Then I have to ask: why does the Workers' Party believe that while the rest of the country is to be involved in how the municipal reform is to be carried out, as happens to be living in the capital region, we should be under compulsion?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e316	When the National Meeting of the Labour Party dealt with our programme in 2013, we were very clear that volunteering was the main rule for us, but we were also clear that the capital area has special challenges, so we thought that there was a need for a separate process there. In other contexts too, the capital area is often treated differently from the rest of the country’s municipalities. Now we see that there's a very large growth in this area. We see that there is a need to see housing and transport and land planning in a much closer context than what you are doing today. For example, it is a paradox that the large community has built T-Bahn westwards to Bærum, which does not keep up with the housing structure, and at least not with the Stortinget's intentions of Fornebuland, while in the opposite direction housing is being built, but not paved. This has to be sorted out, it has to be made more effective; therefore we want to merge Oslo County Municipality and Akershu County Municipality and possibly other parts of the Capital Region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e323	I record that the Workers' Party uses the label 'big stathei for nothing', but many in the Workers' Party are concerned about this so-called nothing. What I also noticed, as the representative Pedersen spoke about in his post, was the interaction reform as a good example of a reform that had the user in focus, not the system. When this reform was introduced, I was the spokesman and experienced it from that perspective, and I must say that I did not feel that there was a reform that was designed in a way that would make it easier for people. It was more of a reform that gave more bureaucracy. We were going to start paying the bill to the state, we got invoices, it was unseemly, but one did not achieve anything more, neither preventive nor before public health work, so it was actually a reform of the system and not for the inhabitants. So my question, when the Labour Party is now looking back on the interaction reform and especially on co-financing responsibility, is: is one then satisfied with the effect the reform had on the perspective of the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e332	The whole interaction reform is about getting the systems to work together to put the individual person in the centre, to prevent better, and for patients to get more treatment at home, rather than, for example, using the drug. to go on dialysis in a hospital far away three times a week. Too many municipalities in Norway, most of them, have succeeded very well. It doesn't mean that everything about the reform has been perfect, or that everything has been perfect from the start, but things have gone on. I think it was wrong to remove the co-financing, because it was an economic incentive to get the systems to work better together and make sure that patients could stay at home longer, come home faster and get treatment closer to home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e342	It's a well-known populist trick to represent others who don't mean exactly the same thing as yourself. I feel that has been done today by the Workers' Party's representative to the Christian People's Party and the big crowd here. I hold the Labour Party to be a responsible party. It is very interesting to take on board, because what the Workers' Party writes in the notes corresponds – is almost synchronous – to what the majority of people do today. The working party knows that they could have been involved in a wide-ranging conciliation process and got an impact on what they are criticised for today. It's a lot to deal with, but I want to focus my question on the criticism of investigation and assessment. It was supposed to be negative. Is it the case that the Workers' Party is known – and will do so – for the answers to be given in advance, or is the Workers' Party served by the fact that we sometimes use democratic instruments and carry out an investigation and assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e349	I fully agree that the Labour Party is a responsible party. That's why we spent a lot of time together with all the other parties in the committee to come up with a broad consensus on the division of tasks. We believe it would be a great strength if Stortinget had left this treatment and agreed on how the division of tasks between the state, the municipality and the county municipality should be in the future. I am sorry that we did not arrive at that result, but I would remind you that it was not the Workers' Party that got up from that table. The attitude — and the debate in and on its own — shows that there is a great deal of real disagreement here, and it is not possible to sweep under the carpet. The Labour Party believes that we should have a knowledge-based approach to the decisions to be taken, but at the same time we believe that the discussions on the regional level have come so far that it must at least be possible to say that we aim for them and those tasks to be transferred, and then we get to concrete and work out afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e356	I have looked at proposal 8 from the Labour Party, where they want a regional level in the capital area, i.e. a regional level above Oslo and Akershus as a minimum, as it says. In Oslo and Akershus, problems have been addressed in the region, i.e.: we have a public transport system which is the best in the country, if not to a large extent in Europe as well. One has a regional planning cooperation that has come very far, and which works very well, a high school that is the best in the country, and the whole power of action – especially in Oslo, which is also the largest state, with 640,000 inhabitants – lies in the fact that one can look at the county and municipal tasks in the context. In addition, there is a city that has 15 urban areas with elected municipal councils, and then my question is: Why would the Workers' Party want to rock Oslo, which works so well? And what do you want to achieve with such a combination?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e361	The working party does not want to cut Oslo's wings or to lay down Oslo, which I felt was a little lower in the question here. But we see that with the growth that the capital area has, it's point one: the need to speed up housing expansion, and, point two: the need for faster planning of collective solutions. There is also a need to see the spatial planning in Oslo and Akershus in the context, and that is with the starting point we have proposed to merge the district district of Oslo with the county district of Akershus. We have rightly formulated it very carefully, to investigate and then finally decide on it, in line with our knowledge-based approach. But I'm recording that representatives from Bærum Right and Oslo Left believe that here you have to merge almost everything in the rest of the country, but when it comes to their own neighbourhood, it gets a little scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e368	I hear the Labour Party representative says they should have a knowledge-based approach to moving tasks, and I am very pleased about that. That is why I ask, because at one point in the setting, SV and the Workers' Party do not agree, and that is in terms of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. There we have now received enquiries from the professional environments where it says that no patients or user organisations want this move, that no specialist health care staff wants this, that no local authorities want it, and that everyone knows with insight that no local authorities have the opportunity to build up high-grade, specialised and multidisciplinary activities, such as rehabilitation in the specialist health service today. Then my question is, will the Workers' Party take these recordings into account? Rehabilitation and rehabilitation are two very different things, and habilitation is a highly specialised service that should not be decentralised. There is nothing left in the Workers' Party configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e375	I'm very pleased with the question, so I get the opportunity to solve it. In the spirit of the interaction reform, we believe that it is important that municipalities take a greater responsibility for rehabilitation – and then we think of this everyday rehabilitation that needs to take place, and also that both the municipality and health companies take responsibility for good communication, so that the municipalities follow up in a good way when the hospitals are done with their part of the job. However, we are very clear that the specialised rehabilitation should not be moved to the municipalities – that is the responsibility of health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e380	It's an obvious misunderstanding -- I asked about the rehabilitation, not the rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e385	Okay, I don't think we've really written anything about that, but the same idea is at the root of that: Specialised services should be in healthcare companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e393	Municipalities shall not be under-utilisation by the State, but by the population arenas to perform important tasks jointly. The municipalities are the bearer of the indigenous welfare offer. The municipality is a community of developers, executives and local democracy. Today, we strengthen the ability of municipalities to provide good services and to take responsibility for their development. The task report is a milestone in the work on better response for the benefit of citizens, businesses and communities — strengthening local democracy in practice. Just because the municipalities have so many tasks that mean so much to people, they're so important. At the same time, citizens decide how to control their municipality and how to do the job locally. On the right is a policy that strengthens the ability of citizens and municipalities to create the best services and the best local communities separately. It is important that municipalities have and take responsibility for their statutory tasks. Many municipalities are already struggling with the provision of statutory services on their own – child protection, mental health services, regulatory plans or environmental tasks. Norway has changed dramatically since the last municipal reform. We live at a time when it is more relevant to measure the distance to town hall in the number of mouse clicks than in the number of rock throws. Many of us sleep in one municipality, work in another, go to the cinema in a third and do the weekend in a fourth. There will be no lack of change or new challenges in the future either. This is why local reform is important, because we need fewer, stronger and more sustainable municipalities. Indeed, there will be exceptions and variations among municipalities in the future — population and geography. However, the ambition must be that we have municipalities that can do the job for their citizens, and that have to stretch their hands in the weather as far as possible and say: Sorry, we can't do this. In this way you can ask if there is a bit of reality orientation that the Workers' Party and SV send from them to Norwegian municipalities, when the two parties in a common note say: ‘Communities which are already faced with the need to cooperate internationally in many and heavy areas of responsibility should consider entering into more committed cooperation with neighbouring municipalities. [[...]] These municipalities should consider whether it would be more appropriate to merge the municipalities.» – A rarely clear call for a community merger from the Workers' Party and SV, I would say. In order for municipalities to be able to make the job the best possible, they need to be able to see different services in context and have the ability to create good services. This is why we are taking new steps to strengthen the welfare tasks of municipalities, while at the same time allowing municipalities to decide for themselves – and the state less – on issues relating to the construction and development of the individual community. Local reform is about better services for the inhabitants, but also about how we can create more local democracy. It's not really local democracy if the state overrides the municipalities most of the time they do. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have agreed on a number of tasks that can be transferred to the municipalities, as well as that we have set the direction for a future regional level. – More about that later, let me first say a little about some of the changes that are being made today: Dental health: Users of the county dentistry are mostly children and young people and older – people to whom the municipality already has a major responsibility for the provision of health care. Therefore, when municipalities take over dental care, we collect important healthcare at the same level of administration and at the level that is closest to the population. Volunteering: We make it easier to see the context of voluntary work when local authorities are given responsibility for the volunteer centres. And yes, it means for some municipalities that they have to be more aware of the job volunteer agencies actually do. There has been uncertainty about whether the municipalities would be investing in the volunteer centres as it is not a statutory task. To that end, it can be pointed out that Norwegian municipalities, without having had any instructions about it, have doubled the use of money in the last few years to volunteer centres. This in itself is a very positive indication that municipalities see the importance of voluntary work. But in order to secure funding, we choose to designate the funds, while also notifying an escalation period of increased appropriations to the volunteer centres. Better collective provision: Those of the largest municipalities that they believe can make even better collective provision and want to see collective provision more in conjunction with other urban development are now able to do so – provided, of course, that there is cooperation with the surrounding county to ensure an overall offer to users. In higher education, we point out that trials for individual municipalities are possible. But let me make it clear that when the government proposed that individual municipalities should be able to take over the responsibility for higher education, it was of course a premise that the offer to the students – all the students involved – would be at least as good or better than before. Right-wing compromises not with the quality of school – I think people both in this hall and people in this country have brought with them. This will, of course, also be a pre-requisite in cases where it is appropriate to consider applications for testing under the Test Act. Minor State overmanagement: the possibility for the State to stop local exemptions must be reduced. This is a clear continuation of a political line from this government on more freedom locally. In addition, we – from the state to the municipalities – shift the responsibility to be a noise authority when motorsports and shooting routes are to be established. From the past, we have opened up municipal government over snowmobile traffic, we simplify the planning and building law, the threshold for state objections to municipal plans has been raised, and we give the municipalities more frequent support in the matters that still end up at the department's table. The examples I have mentioned, and the other problems we point to in the setting, some people will certainly say are both a little big and a little small. But none of the problems are unimportant! The sum also means a greater decentralization and spread of power in two years than what we've seen in the last eight years. For once, it might not be right to say that the red-greens didn't get it, because there's little evidence that they at all tried or had ambitions in this direction. When I read the setting for this matter, I get a certain impression that the red-greens put the brakes on for almost any strengthening of municipal autonomy. They have virtually no own proposals or initiatives – most critical of what others propose. In addition, as far as the Workers' Party is concerned, I would like to allow myself to say that it seems that there is a little confusion as to which foot the party will actually stand on. Let me do two examples: On the one hand, the Workers' Party preaches volunteering in the municipal reform, both for municipalities and for counties, while in the next breath they propose to join Oslo and several counties with coercion. Unless otherwise, it must be allowed to point out a not insignificant inconsistency in the case of coercion of perhaps 20-30 pst. by the population of the country. Further: On the one hand, the Workers' Party believes that seeing the coherence of child protection services, as Oslo does, has been successful, and even that others, too, will be able to have ‘conditions for a similar responsibility’. I wonder, for in the next breath, the Workers' Party writes that they will 'in the strongest warning' against doing this elsewhere. Why it is so important to prevent what the Workers' Party believes works well one place, and also to be able to get children and families to benefit elsewhere, we get no answer to that. It also indicates the direction and role of the regional level of the future. Everyone knows the primary point of view of the County of Right. However, we respect the fact that there are a majority of three levels of government in this Chamber – that is what we did when we adopted the municipal reform last year, and we are continuing that line today. The counties shall continue to provide important services, including: higher education and public transport, as well as the fact that, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we point to several tasks that can be assessed in favour of moving from the state to the regionally elected level. I would like to thank the two parties for their cooperation also at this point, while at the same time taking away the insinuations from some others that the Right or Government is undermining the County Municipality. To use a popular metaphor: we don't play shops, nor when it comes to important tasks like school, collective and road construction. Today we point out the course and provide important clarifications about the responsibility that Norwegian municipalities will have in the future. The task message, however, is not the reason for the municipal reform. Municipal reform is already over-mature. However, today's case illustrates why the municipal reform is necessary, and why it is good that so many municipalities are now in the process of assessing whether and in which case they will go together, for the benefit of their citizens and communities. With the current setting, the Right Party Government continues on the path we have set out: from centralisation and detail management to decentralisation and the spread of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e457	For the Workers' Party, it is essential if we are to shift tasks, that there is a better offer for the citizens. Maybe we'll separate a little bit of a layer there. In the note, users of permanent work and tools need more comprehensive services, and use it as an argument to transfer more responsibility to municipalities. User organisations have strongly protested and warned that they will receive a worse offer. Jens Petter Gitlesen in the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled People writes on their websites: ‘The proposals will contribute to a weakening of the living conditions of persons with developmental disabilities.’ There are rather heavy professional arguments against going further with the government's thoughts in this area. Then my question is to the representative Jensen: what kind of knowledge does the Right have that makes them obviously know better than any organization that represents these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e467	I don't think this is about either knowing better or not knowing better on the other side. It's about factual disagreement. We are convinced that Norwegian municipalities, which have been successful because they have had a lot of responsibility for many welfare tasks and can see tasks in the context, can also be able to do the tasks even better if they are given greater responsibility for more types of services. Creating new services, innovation, is something Norwegian municipalities are strong on the welfare side, and it is precisely because they are responsible for many different tasks. However, I am sure that if we had thought today that the municipalities had no responsibility for child protection, and then there was a proposal that the municipalities should take responsibility for child protection, the Workers' Party would be against it too, with exactly the same reason. But it is actually a matter of taking management responsibility and trying to find the right balance in terms of the tasks that local authorities should have – precisely in order to have the opportunity to see services in the context and to create better opportunities for citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e474	I observe that there is no professional weight, argument or knowledge behind the proposal, but the user organisations have not only criticised the proposals, but also the process and the lack of involvement. The UN Convention for People with Disabilities follows, inter alia: that the country has an obligation to involve user organisations also in the development phase with regard to proposals relating to them. So then my question is: is there obviously a factual disagreement that I am somewhat uncertain about whether is professionally justified, but can the representative Jensen guarantee that from now on the user organisations will be involved, including and listened to in the future investigations and processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e479	I can briefly say that I have full confidence that the government naturally involves both user organisations and others, in the ways we are obliged to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e484	The right, together with the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, says in a note: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Party of Advances, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, will stress that the principle of generalist municipality is established as a general rule for the municipal sector.’ The same lots provide for a task differentiation between larger and smaller municipalities and for public transport and secondary schools to be taken over by larger municipalities. My understanding of the Right's comment in the mission statement is that the generalist municipality principle is abandoned for the benefit of a greater degree of task differentiation between municipalities, and between municipalities and counties. It is added to the municipalities of A and B. What is the Right definition of the principle of the generalist municipality, and what is meant by the fact that, as a general rule, the proposals included in the nomination of the committee are laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e494	Yes, it is a strength of Norwegian municipalities that you are responsible for the same tasks and that you are responsible for many tasks. There has been a success factor in the Norwegian welfare communities that allows people to provide good services to their citizens. Then it is that in some areas of the country, and especially in strong areas of the press, where there is a great deal of expansion and major traffic challenges, it can be a strength if you also see it in connection with, for example, the collective offer. The premise here is that we can achieve a better environment, better public transport and a better offer for citizens and businesses. That's the premise if you're going to get this kind of task differentiation, and it really surprises me that the Center Party is more willing to put the principle ahead of the people's concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e501	The notification also contains a proposal, on which the Right agrees, that the smallest municipalities should be required to legislate for inter-municipal cooperation. Does the representative also believe that it is within the generalist municipality principle when some municipalities are required by law to cooperate between municipalities, while all others are allowed to carry out those tasks on their own? Another question, about secondary schools: The representative was clearly in the post that larger municipalities could take on secondary schools under the Test Act. Everyone who was at the hearing was probably very sceptical about high school breaking up so that the county council would have parts of it and take care of the rest of the municipal life, and so on, for example. Trondheim town takes care of its students. Can we now be sure that this split is cancelled, and that we will get an equally good offer, and equivalent offers, within high school throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e508	The last premise of the representative, Mr. Greni, I'm not sure if I'm in, but as I said in my post: if it's relevant to trial, then right doesn't compromise with the quality of the school offer to the students. That's the basic thing. If it is the case that we are going to carry out trials, it is because we believe that some municipalities are actually able to offer a better offer, and that the offer should be better, but of course no students should receive a worse offer. It's got to be totally, totally stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e513	It's the concern of the population that's going to count the most. Some people have disabilities, and some have developmental disabilities. They are both overlooked and overrun — both by the expert committee and in the government’s proposals for local government reform. There is no reference to national policies and objectives, there is no reference to international commitments in policies towards people with disabilities, there is no reference to national legislation against people with disabilities and developmental disabilities, and there is no reference to living conditions surveys in any of the investigations. So anyway, the Right believes that this is good, and it promotes proposals that are discriminatory in their seas, even about the habilitation service, which is so crazy today that it's almost impossible to have a professional environment, because it's so narrow, yet it's collected. Does the representative consider that the underlying investigation is a basis for decision-making?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e518	The answer to that question is yes, also because in several contexts we are clear that some things need to be further investigated and further investigated. But it's clear that we're setting the direction. Otherwise, I do not agree with the premise of the representative, Andersen, that this is in some way a discriminating big business message. It is quite simply that we want to create municipalities and ensure that municipalities are able to take responsibility for more tasks and services, so that we can create a better offer for the inhabitants. What this casts off from SV's side is a mistrust of the municipalities – it is continuous in this setting from both SV and the red-green. In the cancellation of a mistrust that Norwegian municipalities are not able to take responsibility for almost one of the tasks that the state is currently responsible for. It is alarming, I think, that SV then until those degrees show their distrust of Norwegian municipalities and their ability to actually prioritize their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e529	I want to start by thanking the case manager for the work he has done to unload this message in Stortinget. He also has taken initiatives for broad discussions, which did not lead us entirely into goal. Nevertheless, the Committee has acted well and cooperated in a number of areas, even though one is not entirely concerned with everything. For us in the Progress Party, there are four important principles in discussing task shifting between levels. Users' individual rights shall be determined. The tasks must be fully financed, i.e. the one level of money spent on the task must be followed up to a possible new level of the economy. It is a fundamental principle that tasks that need political understanding should essentially be at a political popular level. As a general rule, the tasks should be solved almost entirely by the builders. In other words, we focus most on moving tasks down to the municipal level, and also to the regionally elected level. This message is part of the municipal reform, but it is important for us to stress that we do not have municipal reform because we are going to present this message. This is a supplement. The representative Pedersen said that I had called it carrots, and that's right. This is one of many carrots, given the importance of municipal reform. However, it is important to stress that if the municipalities want more tasks, they will be shown a direction today with many new tasks. But they also have huge tasks today that they have chosen to delegate to intercommunal cooperation, so that if the municipalities want more tasks, they can get back the ones they have chosen to solve in other ways, so they get many new tasks. Local reform is more important than just tasks. It's about the whole thing. This is an important loophole message on the road, but it is not the reason for the municipal reform that we have a task message. We in the Progress Party are very happy that a large number of people at Stortinget say that the municipalities have to sit down and take the next talk in relation to the municipal reform. It's been less than a year since the department invited the municipalities to take that neighboring talk. We note that Norway as a whole is on the agenda. The municipalities discuss it with each other; they discuss it with their inhabitants through community studies, through public meetings, through referendums. The last time we got a message from Lunner and Gran, who had a positive response to a community survey. It shows that this is on the agenda of Norway as a whole, and it shows that the municipalities are some of the people that it is natural to discuss this, and less than a year after they got the invitation, they have arrested him in a very good way. This message, I hope, will help the debate on the local reform to be even more updated, and that it will show that there should be even more interesting local politicians in Norway in the future than it is today. Never before have as many tasks been presented as you should move down to municipalities as you do with this message. This shows that the Stortinget has the ability to provide trust and authority to local elected representatives. So I'm going to say a little bit about the intermediate level, which has received a lot of focus in the processing of this message. Christian People's Party and Left got a big say in the municipal proposition for 2015 when they got the Stortinget to decide that there should be three elected levels in Norway. Everyone knows what the Progress Party basically thinks about it, but here the Christian People's Party and the Left have been given the formulations that are closer to their primary position than ours. Today, these two parties get an extra one saying that they've got multiples to bring their own big message next spring that's going to bring the further shift of tasks to the regional populace level. Now I've been talking a little bit about the victories of the Christian People's Party and the Left, so I also have to talk a little bit about their government parties. The ruling party has good reason to be satisfied with the processing of this message, mainly because there are several major lines in the original message. Local authorities have been given a good deal of new tasks. In addition, there are several places where larger municipalities can be given greater responsibility for public transport, but then in partnership with the county. We are also pleased that it is established that the test law applies in relation to further training, so that it is possible to look at some of the trials in which applications are to be evaluated through thorough treatment. And as the representative Jensen said, those who belong to the experimental community and the county municipality will get a better offer both when it's going on and when it's about apprentices, if it's going to be relevant with a trial. We believe that seeing the whole educational cycle as a whole can be good for both students and the municipality, which can think whole-heartedly. In addition to dealing with the government's message, the committee has also challenged the government in a number of other policy areas, and wants to challenge the government to sort things out a little bit more. Let me give you three examples. Within the scope of the exemption policy, what remains is now – after the government has gone a long way in simplifying the plan part of the Planning and Building Act, after they have dealt with the plan matters more positively by saying that the county officials must give greater emphasis to local self-government, but also that the complaints are treated more positively – as the next step of the exemptions, where the municipalities today feel that there are still strict county councillors, and here the county councillors are the complaints body for each other, with settfylkänma. There, the majority of the committee points out that outside the cultivation of land and cultural memory, we have to shift more of the responsibility within the exemption to the municipalities. We are glad that the department is doing it further, to the great delight of the elected level, which will then get more responsibility and confidence in resolving smaller exemptions themselves. Then the majority in the committee has pointed out the sign. It is a fact that many local politicians have been listed over the years because the State Road Service refuses to sign up to an attraction, to an enterprise or to something that local politicians think is important. We believe that municipalities should be allowed to decide more themselves within that area as well, and challenge the government to go further in giving the municipalities authority to tell them what to distinguish and what the divorce policy should be. And then we've also listened to vocabularies in this process. When the committee was visiting Hordaland, the chairman of Fitjar, Wenche Tislevoll, told of how she experienced the state when it came to putting addresses in her municipality. She had a wish that a village should be called Vistvik. So says the State Name Consultant that no, it should be called Vistvika, with a-ending, and then she got a long letter that they now had to change the address of the municipality, if they didn't have to make a name case, and then there was a complaint body to decide on it. That challenge took us on a tight arm and formulated that in this area too, municipalities must be allowed to decide more. It may not be a task for government overrides whether or not there should be a ending in Vistvik. We have a message that is good and that moves considerable power downwards. In addition, my favorite chapter in the message is the relationship between state and municipality. Here we are told to have a review of the state's position in the municipal sector, and our superstructure is that there should be less supervision and more trust. We trust that municipalities can perform their role better themselves, and we do not need to have as many supervision as we do today – we should not stop supervision, but we should give more trust and focus on our own control and assessments than the state should be appropriate to everything possible. That's why we're very pleased that we're going to have a review of what the county's role is going to be in the future. We are very clear that the county council is to carry out supervision, control, preparedness and some guidance tasks, but is to a lesser extent to override local democracy. It's a clear direction from this government. When this message is fully outsourced through the distributions, and when a new task is put in place, the time spent by the Norwegian local government will be less used to discuss that the county and state have interfered with things, the discussion in the local government will focus more on how to provide even better services to its citizens. This message gives more trust and more tasks. Local authorities will have the opportunity to see more services in context, and municipalities will get the last word in a lot of things. Norway is already on the verge of having a well-developed local democracy with many tasks. Today, the Storting takes new steps to show how important local democracy is to the inhabitants of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e576	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e579	In parallel with the so-called transfer of tasks to municipalities, the government will deprive municipalities of power and authority in other processes. Tax collection has been mentioned. It is also the case that the Progress Party will remove the concession law, and so is the obligation to live with it. The municipal housing obligation is an instrument that individual municipalities have in order to ensure a full-time residence, such as approx. 80 Norwegian municipalities use it, including a number of Right-wing-Fremskritspartit-steerte municipalities. Wholes is one of them, where the Progress Party rapporteur says: ‘A lifting of the obligation to live will have serious consequences for the Whaler community’. Why does the Progress Party on the Stortinget not have more confidence in their own than that they will leave the rapporteur of the Advance Party on Hyler and other municipal politicians around Norway still have this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e584	For the Progress Party, the relationship between state, county and municipality is important, where we move tasks, but it is also an important fundamental principle for us that citizens and individuals have their rights. When it comes to these kinds of questions, we actually want to go even further and delegate more power and authority from the public on all three levels down to the individual citizen, so that they can organize their lives and choose where to bow. We also record that there are conscripts in a number of municipalities, but we are not as concerned that the effect will be that these municipalities will lose residents because the obligation to provide services will be lifted. What can happen is that they get residents who really want to live in the municipality. They have to get in the harness to be attractive in order for people to choose to live in the municipality. We think it's a good policy. Not least, it is a very good policy for the individual inhabitants, who then gain greater freedom of choice for where to live and live their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e591	I shall continue to quote the rapporteur of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the He says, ‘But an even more serious consequence is the price level we know arises, the competition for housing we provide families with children who want to move to Whaler’s problems. We need families with children here. Otherwise, we're going to have an unfortunate social development." Is it the case that the Progress Party will only give more power to local democracy when local democracy does what the Advance Party on the Storting wants to do? Shouldn't local democracy at Whaler make these assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e601	Local democracy in whales should do what local democracy in whales thinks is right within the political framework drawn from here, one in some areas giving the individual more power. I totally agree with Eyvind Borge in Hyler that it is important to facilitate that children's families get cheap plots and cheap dwellings in Hyler. It is precisely for this reason that this government and this majority of population have to give municipalities greater autonomy in land policy, so that Eyvind Borge can regulate several plots and several construction sites. If there is a family of children who want to live in the home and there is no correct status in the municipal plan, Eyvind Borge can use the dispensation ratio to a greater extent with the decision we are making today, than he could before, just to make it easier for more people to build on the whales. We think it's a better policy to secure more inhabitants and more families of children there than to have obligations and other things to force people to live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e608	I note that the head of the Municipal Committee believes that he makes better and more accurate assessments of the situation of Hyler than the chairman of the Advance Party at Hyler. Does it not seem to the Committee's chairman that it is a paradox that we are talking about strengthening local democracy when we are going to transfer civil marriages, notaries and rule-run state arrangements, while at the same time withdrawing power and authority that local democracy actually has today and which they very strongly want to retain, including the Committee's own rapporteur?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e613	Now it's not about dragging any power into this context. It's about delegating to more people. It's not a secret that the programme of the Progress Party has been clear that commitment and that kind of question is something that we basically don't think should be left to elected people, but it's supposed to be a rule that's general to all inhabitants. Nor is it that I have expressed that I know better what is owned by whales. I've just pointed out that in some areas we take care of ourselves, but in other areas we strengthen the law of planning and building, so that we can create more tools for those who are elected to the whales, so that they can design the policy that is best for the whales. Cork I or others know what's best, but we enable the municipalities to do a good policy, including at Whaler.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e620	The Progress Party attaches great importance to the government's reduction of red tape and the promotion of efficiency. In the Task Communication, the concrete proposals for change of tasks are primarily the transfer of tasks within the municipal sector, by proposing that high school, public transport and dental services be transferred to larger municipalities. First, it is that it is far more likely to share responsibility for these tasks on the basis of the government's proposal. Secondly, it is suggested that parallel administrations should be built up, if we follow the majority of the population, because they will both maintain the county and give municipalities the opportunity to take over school and public transport. What are these proposals that promote red tape and greater efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e627	Parallel administrations aren't talking about this. Here's the thing about the administration that the municipality has, if you're going to have an experiment, you're also going to be allowed to think about 1st grade and continue instead of 1st-10th grade. class. There are already professionals in those municipalities, and then they have to prove in the application that they will get it. When one asks the question about what is in smaller bureaucracy in the message, I recommend the representative of Greni to read both this message and the local reform to see the health here. Then one sees that with fewer municipalities, a few less bureaucracy and more money will free up for the services of the inhabitants. That's just the whole point: we're going to organize Norway smarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e634	After all, there is no research that suggests that there is less bureaucracy in larger municipalities than in small ones, at least not if they have a certain size. I think what has upset people the most in dealing with this, is the Progress Party's total turnaround in the case of people with disabilities and developmental disabilities. Now Njåstad says that the inhabitants have their rights, but then he is involved in weakening the supervision of the large municipalities and that they are following up these rights. One is thus involved in assigning tasks to the municipalities, which are about aids, permanent work, rehabilitation and rehabilitation – completely without investigation, which are opposed to all the professional communities and organisations involved. Then I need to ask: what has changed from the last eight years until the Progress Party has been in government, where they have fought as lions to make this state policy, that the rights should be the same throughout the country, and that the state should take care of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e644	Now I just have to correct Andersen's representative a little bit when she says "totally without an investigation". The four copies, which are mentioned, should be looked at further, so that a proper and thorough assessment is made. I don't share that basic premise that as long as the state has a bureaucrat responsible for a service, it's good, or the general distrust that all local elected representatives, everyone who works in the municipalities, don't want to get this done. If we move tasks with the two premises that I said, that the money should follow, and that the individual dishes are fixed, I have great confidence that those who are in a municipality and are closer, can make a better offer, because they can see things together, and because they are closer to the individual user. So I'm absolutely sure that the tasks that we do after an outsourcing and after a further process move down to the municipalities will lead to better services. That's exactly why we do it. We don't do it for fun; we do it to get the citizens better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e653	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e656	There are two ways to run community management. One is offensive to address the challenges; the other is to let fear and inevitability strike. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are in the process of reforming. It's an over-mature change that will take time to come. I would like to thank you for your sensitivity and cooperation with the rapporteur and the cooperation parties. The task message gives both the leadership and the answers to which tasks the municipalities may have over the next 40-50 years. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to further participating in the preparation of municipal tasks and the transfer of tasks from state bodies, including physical relocation of workplaces. The most important thing is that there will be better governance and good quality in the services for people. The Christian People's Party wants a broad political platform for this further forward. We are pleased with the idea that three popularly elected political levels will be taken into account in Norway, and that we will receive a big message on the state and regional level in spring 2016. I say like skipper Worse: it came late – Mr. President – but it came well! In all reform efforts, the focus should be on ensuring quality and providing the same level of service in all parts of the country. State Council Sanner has used the word 'robust' and has had to endure some hoarseness over the word. But the choice of words sums up the core of why the reform is important. Let me therefore mention in all modesty that the Christian People's Party has used the same word twice about this in its program – a program that was written before the Council of State Sanner became Minister of Reform. In the program, Christian People's Party says that ‘a number of municipalities face challenges in recruiting and maintaining robust professional environments. Even in order to maintain the balance between local democracy and the state, it may be necessary to establish larger and more robust municipalities.» Let me underline the last one. In the reform, the state has to give up more. In a number of areas, it is necessary to examine the State and ensure that political discretion is exercised by elected representatives. When a task is transferred to the municipalities, it shall be accompanied by financing. Individual rights shall be maintained. The government must come back with final proposals for tasks and structures for the municipalities in spring 2017. The final decisions must then be taken. I am pleased that many municipalities are doing well with local reform processes. Good processes and volunteering are key words to succeed in such governance reform. The big ones have to be generous and give, and the smaller ones have to actively participate by thinking new and better structures together for a good everyday region. Everyone has to think new municipality over aggregation. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, the penetrations are many and important. It has been mentioned: The provision of permanent organised work and basic tools with guidance shall continue to be explored in a way that will be at least as good as today's work and educational journeys as before family protection should not go to the municipalities, but should be strengthened and worked more closely with the municipal services volunteer centres should be strengthened and the test scheme for child protection in some municipalities should be earmarked for increased autonomy in divorce policy. The principle of the generalist municipality shall be established. The phrase ‘as a general rule’ concerns the generalist principle. Let me take that bull by the horns right away: the Norwegian geography and associated housing patterns with fjords, islands and mountain crossings do not allow the use of templates to develop a new municipal structure. The Christian People's Party will ensure the right to be also a small municipality, and will ensure good services for the inhabitants through good interaction with neighbouring municipalities. This shall be followed by the phrase ‘as a general rule’. This is also a message to those who want to use the wording to talk the reform down. The Christian People's Party, Left, Right and Advance Party believe that the transfer of more power and authority to the municipalities will strengthen local self-government and move decisions closer to the inhabitants. A code of cooperation shall be established for smaller municipalities to ensure quality of service and legal certainty for the inhabitants where a municipality cannot discharge this responsibility alone. Like I said, we're on the way. But here's still a big job to do. And I remind both myself and my colleagues in this Chamber that we will finally be measuring whether we have made a reform that strengthens local democracy and that ensures better services for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e717	I record that the Christian People's Party believes that dental services should be taken over by the municipalities. Then I would really just go right on the matter and ask the representative Tuskedal from the Christian People's Party about how he and the Christian People's Party believe that the dental service will be a better service when the municipalities are now to be held responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e722	In collaboration with other parties, it's giving and taking. Some things we win in, others are promoted by others and are not our primary things. Nevertheless, in the case of the dental settings, we have been given a formulation that these environments can be continued if the municipalities want to. That means that in the regions, in the counties and in the municipalities that are served by the arrangement that is today, we believe in the Christian People's Party that they can continue if they want to. The municipalities are going to decide this, and I encourage the county councils now, where they have such a competence environment, to cooperate with the municipalities to secure these environments of competence, which have been developed and become very positive in many parts of the country. They are responsible for the quality and purchase of equipment and have a high level of competence in both continuing training and special services for groups that need it. I believe that they can now continue within the framework of the reform as before, if the municipalities and the states will.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e727	I am grateful for the answer, but it is a fact that we have received concerns from Finnmark in the north to Østfold in the south and to the representative's own Rogaland in the west regarding the transfer of the dental service. Those who work professionally on this issue believe that moving it will lead to smaller professional environments and make it more difficult to achieve national targets. Then the question is what professional documentation Christian People's Party has as the basis for supporting the government in the proposal. Would not the Christian People's Party then be better off voting for what they are for and against what they are against, rather than fighting for the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e732	Now it's like when we're entering into a partnership and we're going to achieve results, it's giving and taking. It's probably also well-known far into the Working Party, but perhaps more familiar in the small parts. With regard to what the representative addresses, I hoped in my previous post that if these centres of expertise will continue and the municipalities will, they can. It's completely possible to get it out. With regard to the professional assessment of this, it is clear that the Christian People's Party is not involved in anything to reduce the offer for users. This is a very important offer that has been developed at a high level. We have to be able to look at the organization of it, but the quality of the services we don't celebrate. We're not going to do that in the future either. Therefore, these environments of competence — if the municipalities want to — can continue as before and evolve for the benefit of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e741	Then it is tempting to ask the Christian People's Party: are they most satisfied with what they are doing in this mission message, or are they more satisfied with the suggestions they have taken time to put a stop to this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e746	Yeah, that premise seems a little weird -- maybe it comes from a party that doesn't have to take so much into account how small parties are doing. It's the way we've had our wins in negotiations, and we're very happy about that, and then we're very happy about what we've gotten the government to turn in and get them on. So I say yes, we're very satisfied with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e757	The Christian People's Party and the Left say that they have saved the elected regional level by maintaining secondary education and public transport as a municipal task. The dental services have agreed to transfer the municipalities, with the major challenges it will pose for the fragmentation of a good and well-functioning service. In the case of new tasks for county councils, some things have to be investigated, but there are no clear leads, and it is not stated that new tasks will have to be assigned to county council at this time. How certain is the Christian People’s Party that they have won a future for the county? I am thinking of the fact that there is a more active use of the Test Act to give municipalities the opportunity to take on secondary education, and that large municipalities can take over responsibility for public transport. Is this not still an attempt to assassinate the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e766	I think that is a little premature insinuation towards the Right and the Advance Party. They have turned this case around and say that the regionally elected level will remain. It says in writing, they have said it, they have done it, and we have won it in these debates. So it's still saying that they're trying to carnage the county, I think it's an untimely way of speaking. On the contrary, the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed and actively participated in filling the level of meaningful tasks. They have themselves suggested that a separate growth report should be addressed to this spring 2016, before the municipalities give notice. That is why I believe that the Left and Christian People's Party has ensured the territorial level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e773	There are comments in this setting that government parties still want a two-tier model, and that is what they work for. When you give the openings for a government to deal with this kind of dispensation scheme, when there's someone sitting there and very much want to do this, it's clear that it's going to happen. So I have to say that I am quite surprised that, after two years, the Christian People's Party does not see that you repeatedly make agreements where the government does – to say it like that – whatever it wants, and where you stretch the knit as far as you can in the other direction of the Christian People's Party. What perhaps disappoints me most is that the Christian People's Party has not parked the unacceptable proposals to remove the state's responsibilities – through popularism – for aids and for sustained work. I think a lot of organizations, like SV, are disappointed about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e780	As regards the Right and Advance Party programme, it states that they are in favour of a two-tier model. In the case of the Advance Party and the Right of the Storting, they are dependent on the majority of the Storting, and then it's the Stortinge that decides. I hope SV can still contribute to this. When it comes to being in charge of a majority without having any impact on all programme entries, I think SV is going to think about their last government period – they have to recognize that. When it comes to the issue of the offer of permanent work and tools, I think the organisations – at least the ones I am in contact with – have thanked us for what we have achieved. It should be investigated, the offer should be at least as good as today, and we have good contacts with the organisations. It is our heart rate in the party to ensure that vulnerable groups and groups that need specially organised arrangements are cared for. There we're going to be on the barricades – hopefully in layers with SV – at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e792	The government spent two and a half years working on the municipal reform. We've used one and a half so far. So the municipalities have one year left to follow the government's deadlines for the municipal reform. In spring 2016, they should have concluded on what solutions they think are best served locally: to continue as their own municipality, or to join one or more of the neighbouring municipalities. The centre party has constantly criticised and said that the tasks should be in place first, before they started the neighboring chat, but it has been assured that they would be in place when the task message arrived in spring 2015. I think a lot of municipalities are just as wise as they've been so far. The task message should be the engine that drove the municipal reform ahead. Here the proposals for the massive transfer of government tasks to the municipalities were to be promoted, so that it became clear to everyone that the government's words on local democracy reform and strengthened local government were to be followed up with action. This was not the case, we can see today. The Government’s task message is primarily about the need for new investigations in areas that may be relevant for transferring from state to new and larger municipalities. The government announced a local democracy reform. The result is primarily a proposal for the transfer of tasks in the municipal sector. The Government adds to the task message a task differentiation between municipalities that will produce more bureaucratic and less efficient solutions, and they add up to A and B municipalities. This can't be part of the Center Party. The central party believes that there is a need for reforms in the local government sector by decentralising tasks from state authorities to municipalities and county councils and by strengthening the local government in order to give more opportunities to participate in the development of its local community. The government’s municipal reform does not respond to these challenges, but contributes to centralisation and weak governance. For the government, remediation of the country's municipalities has become more important than giving more power and authority to the local government sector. The system is ahead of the inhabitants. I would like to stress that for the Centre Party, it is not appropriate to support proposals to merge municipalities with coercive ones, as the government continues to propose by submitting a legislative proposal in spring 2017 with proposals for a new municipal structure. The majority insist on promoting the legislative proposal. Their statement that they base the voluntary line has no credibility. The government insists that new and larger municipalities will provide people with better services and strengthen local democracy. There is no professional covering for it. The population survey shows that the highest level of satisfaction among people with the provision of services in primary tasks — school, health and care — is found in smaller municipalities. Lack of ability to recruit personnel in smaller municipalities, such as children's protection, is used as an argument. Nor is this a professional covering for. The problem is the same in larger municipalities. Much could have been better in the municipal sector, but it has nothing to do with municipality size. The community reform and the mission communication proposals will be centralising. It is regrettable that this is not discussed openly in government documents. The importance of the municipal structure for district policy is entirely absent from the mandate of the government’s expert group to discuss the division of tasks. In fact, municipalities, especially in the districts, are important for housing, jobs and value creation also through the private sector. The municipal administration itself provides skilled work places for young people with higher education with the possibility of living outside the main agglomerations. Minor municipalities are actively involved in action to promote industrial development. Privates depend on a certain environment and public service equipment if they are to establish themselves. These conditions need to be given much greater attention in further work. The expert committee believes that the state needs to reduce its detailed management of the municipal sector in order to ensure good and powerful democratic arenas. Nor has this been followed up by concrete proposals. On the contrary, government increases government control, through, among other things. attempts to finance the care of the elderly by the state. I have to agree with the leader of the KS when she says that ‘a reform that in practice leads to a weakening of the elected regional level is a reform of even more state governance’. As far as the elected regional level is concerned, the government has been defeated in its meeting with the Stortinget – the majority comments in the vote are clear that the county municipality is to be continued. I'm glad, but I'm not sure what's in this. There is considerable uncertainty about who is to be responsible for public transport, as it is open to larger municipalities to take over it – as is the active use of the test law to leave responsibility to secondary schools to the largest municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e816	There was not much uplifting to the right of the representative from Greni when it comes to the municipal reform and the division of tasks. After two years, the government has already delivered several major reforms in the fields of management, social affairs, health, working life and education. The centre party has been critical of most of this. What has our Central Party melodies are that everything should be like it was before and that everything that is new is dangerous. Is it a conscious strategy from the Center Party's side to create fear of change?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e821	The center part won't segment what is. For example: The police reform, we were in favour of reducing it to 19 police districts, but the Central Party is not in favour of reforms leading to centralisation, leading to a different pattern of residence in Norway and leading to insecurity for people in the district. And what is common denominator for all these reforms is that it is put up for a large-scale centralisation – both by people, by power and by jobs. The Center Party won't be in on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e826	My question was whether there is a conscious strategy on the part of the Center Party to create fear of change, and that might give the representative a new chance to answer. But unlike the Central Party, there is a great deal of upsurge in processes, in terms of the local reform, in terms of many places. In Sogn and Fjordane have nine to ten municipalities come far in this process. Many of these local politicians who work with these good processes are from the Center Party, and there is also cross-political consensus about much of what they work with. There are also many of the Central Party's local politicians who are positive for municipal convergence, and they are at the forefront of such processes. Will the Center Party on Stortinget pay attention to these?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e833	As the representative of Lødemel is very familiar with, it is largely the central party rapporteurs who have also previously taken the initiative in bringing together the municipalities. And this myth that you're trying to create, that the Center Party is against community reunification, I've done a lot of attempts to bring down -- which has been very unsuccessful. The central party is not against the merger of municipalities, the central party is against the coercion of municipalities. On the contrary, we have encouraged all municipalities to participate in these investigations – to identify their strengths and weaknesses, and to see how competent they are in the municipalities. In the next round, the local government will have to decide what will be best for their citizens in the future. Is it continuing as your own municipality? Is it to enter into inter-municipal cooperation? Or is it getting along with someone? But it is up to the elected local politicians to decide. It is not that only when you and I go up the stairs on Stortinget can we get enough intelligence to determine the municipal structure in Norway. [[The President clubs.]] It must be the local politicians who decide and...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e841	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e844	Reported to the government by the representative, Greni, much more than the Central Party. That's the same thing as the notes. There is much more to the comments of the Central Party on government policy than on the central party's own policy. I have tried to find out what the Center Party wants to move down to the municipalities and only register that it is shown that they have some suggestions, but I see nothing concrete. I would like to challenge the representative to be concrete: what are the tasks of the Central Party that the municipalities can solve instead of the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e851	The starting point for the Central Party's proposals, the 21 points to which we refer in the comments, is that it should either provide better services to the inhabitants or provide more local democracy when we move tasks. We are very pleased that it is now to be investigated and moved from the county office to the county council. In principle, I believe that all tasks that depend on political judgement should be carried out by politicians rather than bureaucrats. We are committed to looking at the violent ‘directoratisation’ of Norway. Now the blue-blue government has continued to set up new directorates, and there are increasing numbers of bureaucrats. We believe that this is a form of discharge. Many of those tasks should be taken down by the Directorates and spent at regional level. It has to go back to political governance. That is the whole principle: everything subject to political governance must be carried out by politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e860	In 1965, following the work of the Schei Committee, a reduction in the number of Norwegian municipalities was made from approx. 720 to approx. 450-- almost a half. And it was not a voluntary reform at all. There are many opinions about it. Does the representative, Mr Greni, think that the elected local politicians should also make that decision at the time? How did the Centre Party view the reduction of the number of municipalities at that time? That's far less interesting questions. What's interesting is that the parties follow each other on what they think about the one and the other. Then I would like to highlight my opinion of the Central Party in a central question: Can I hear that the Central Party has one reason why we should go to a local reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e865	There are many good reasons why we should have a community reform, but it should not be about municipal structure. This should be a community reform, with citizens and good services for the inhabitants at the centre. If the question was, can it be positive to merge some municipalities? Yes, it may be positive to merge some municipalities. It can provide stronger professional environments; it can reduce the vulnerability of some services. But again – it is up to local politicians in the municipalities to decide. I am very disappointed that the Christian People's Party does not have faith in its local politicians. They are aware that there is going to be a bill to the Stortinget in spring 2017 where the Stortinget is going to outrun legally constituted municipal government decisions, where we are going to deprive local politicians of all power and where we believe that we have so much better things to do with what it looks like than those who actually have local knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e874	I heard with great interest when the representative, Njåstad, asked the representative, Mr. Greni, about these 21 points, which were referred to in the file today. The representative, Mr. Greni, had more mention of government policy than of his own policy. It might be a little interesting for me to hear about the 21 points that are not mentioned at all – whether it's a kind of colloquial group, or not being mentioned, just that there are 21 points. But I hear that there is so much opposition to continuing a test law, as the representative of the Grenis party in the government also had. What's the difference when there's a clear restriction on what's being presented today, compared to what was more open under the previous government? What does the representative, Mr Greni, think is the difference between today's test law, after today's debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e883	The Test Act has been there all along – the representative of Skjelstad is right. I would say it makes a big difference that there is a test law there under a government that sees that this will provide worse services. This test law did not want us to exploit it. I expect that the representative will aim to try out higher education schools for larger municipalities. We now have a blue-blue government that wants this service transferred to large municipalities. There's reason to fear that they'll open up for trials in these municipalities. This will result in the depletion of the supply in the remaining municipalities. To take my own state as an example: Trondheim has over 60 pst. of the student places. It will then give double bureaucracy, and it will provide much worse services to those located outside Trondheim Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e890	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e893	More local democracy is not pushing more tasks for which there is no money, down to the municipalities. You have to start by giving enough money to the tasks that the municipalities already have, and that's what SV wants. SV is in order to strengthen the economy of municipalities, so that they can employ enough people, have strong professional environments, recruit and keep people in both care and school, instead of breaking up professional environments, as the government and the majority now propose, or weaken the rights of citizens, which will also be a consequence of some of the proposals that the government and the majority now support. One might say that SV is the party that wants the most robust municipal economy of all the parties, and you'll see that when you deal with the local economy later. This means that we have the greatest confidence in local politicians, because we believe that they – point one – will have a decisive influence on whether or not to merge municipalities, and they will be supported by SV if they do, but we also have more confidence that they can manage a larger part of the economy than the other parties on the Stortinget have. We want important reforms in the municipal sector in terms of manning standards, both at school and in care, and other important reforms in local democracy to improve both school and care and other tasks for municipalities. But we – unlike this government and the majority – commit ourselves to financing it. The matter we are dealing with now is a non-directional proposal. At the same time as proposing to assign some tasks to municipalities, other important, important tasks that are already at the disposal of municipalities, such as centralisation of taxes – that has been downgraded, that was good. It's a task that the municipalities are doing well today. The concession law has been mentioned here in the past. Then you say you have to have three levels of government, but you systematically attack the tasks of the regional and county levels. When the majority wants large municipalities to take over responsibility for higher education and public transport, take over dental care, they tear up large, good professional environments that work well today. If large cities get to take over secondary schools – and they will probably do so with the home that is there, and with this government that wants to approve such applications – there is a risk that students living in the districts will have far fewer choices and poorer offers. I record that people say that everyone should be taken into account, but I wonder who will take that into account, who will take that decision, who will be responsible for all those students. It's not very clear. It's the same with public transport, and it's probably worth mentioning that at the hearing the NHO was completely dismayed and tearing his hair over that there would now be even more they were going to sit and negotiate with. And then I see that you write in the setting here that no, but maybe, once you've decentralised this, the jam these municipalities have to create some cooperative bodies, and maybe even fewer than there are county municipalities today. So here you see that you've done something stupid. The most serious thing is that the majority of population do not park proposals that discriminate against people with developmental disabilities and those who need them, for example. permanent organisation of work, facilities, rehabilitation services, rehabilitation services. The only group to be excluded from development-impaired is the state labour market policy. Good, adapted tools require a wide range of professional environments and competences, as we have today. It is also not a local political task, but a right that the state is to fund over the people's rights. This is also at stake – without a single municipality having asked for these tasks. I would like to point out that Norway has acceded to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and in this context the State undertakes to consult them in advance – before making proposals. The government has not done that, and in the further work I assume that the government will allow representatives of these organisations to sit in the bodies that will continue to work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e914	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e917	SV expresses great concern that municipalities should be given one single new welfare task. It's amazing. The red-green parties, including SV, have been involved in the transfer of important welfare tasks to municipalities over the years – also with the municipal structure we have largely today. This also applies to people with high help needs, for example: The HVPU reform, the Interaction Reform and the Roadmap for Mental Health. How can local authorities be responsible for serious cancer patients and mentally ill, but not for work measures and aids?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e925	I record that the representative from the Right obviously has not read any of the professional recommendations that have come to these cases, that he has not come to understand that the government has broken our Convention obligations in consultation with those concerned, and that the trade unions – e.g. In the area of habilitation – tells us that these are so small and spinning environments, and that you don't have to tear them up. Thus, in the case of permanent work, there is one group that the government and the representative will now withdraw from government labour market policy, and it is anti-developmental. This is discrimination because people with developmental disabilities have the same right to work as others, and the state has an obligation to participate and pay for it. If this is not to go beyond the state budget, but is part of the framework of the local government sector, we know that funds will have to be fought over with many other tasks – and the state is making a commitment to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e930	To date, it may be objected that neither financing nor individual rights shall be affected by a change in tasks. But let me do another theme. When you read the settings, you can see – happily in a way – that SV also admits that many municipalities have challenges, including with today’s tasks, in solving their statutory tasks. I quote, as I did in my post, from the SV's remark: ‘that municipalities which already have to cooperate internationally in many and heavy areas of responsibility should consider entering into more committed cooperation with neighbouring municipalities. These municipalities should consider whether it would be more appropriate to merge the municipalities.» Does the representative Andersen have any examples of municipalities that should consider joining together?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e942	First, the representative’s question shows that there is no understanding of the difference between public-resource-funded facilities and framework grants to the local government sector. That means that this – to say it like that – is not in safe hands. There is a huge difference between the funding of aids and the need to remain under the public interest, or whether there are earmarked funds for permanent organised work on the State budget. Yes, SV is for municipalities that need it to merge. We think they'll be able to figure that out. Locally, we have been involved in initiatives for community mergers, for example: between Bodø and Skjerstad. What's obvious is that where there seems to be the greatest need to merge municipalities, it's about common land and transport planning. Then we don't talk about the small districts, because that's not where they have problems. It is the large municipalities that are already large today that really have this problem. If they want to merge, SV must be positive to it – no matter who asks for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e949	When we hear Andersen's representative today, we understand that the Socialist Left Party plans to promote a series of proposals to donate a lot of money to the municipalities over the state budget. Then my question is: is this a whole new strategy that SV has now suddenly come up with – at least when you compare with what SV stood for during the time when the Socialist Left Party was part of the Red-Green Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e954	No, no, no. Firstly, these proposals have already been promoted in Stortinget as a representative proposal, and part of this lies in the local economy. When SV was in government, the result in the local government sector was much better than it is under this government. Under this government there has also been a major tax failure in the municipal sector, which the government has failed to finance. There are significant ring-effects in the municipal sector. I am happy to meet a single local politician who has welcomed these proposals and what the government and the majority are now planning. They say that the most important thing for them is that they get the money to carry out the tasks and obligations they already have today. They're big, they're many, they're heavy, but there's no funding -- especially to be able to hire enough people in both school and care, because there's a big shortage. In the care of the elderly, there are so many shortcomings that SV has seen to have to make proposals on human rights in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e961	I think there were many good approaches in SV's posts, but I noticed that the representative thinks SV – and it might have been a bit bold – was the party that had to have the greatest confidence in local politicians. Why does one then only promote proposals on manning standards and ear marking and not a single proposal to move tasks? Could it be because the word ‘people’s party’ has been removed and one is left with ‘left party’, i.e. pure ideology and system thinking? But to make the question simple in the end, I repeat what I had for the Center Party, where I did not get an answer. Perhaps I get an answer from SV: Can we hear a single good reason why we are now going to have a municipal reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e966	The municipalities already have a lot of work to do, which they need more money to do. We want to fund those tasks, and we listen to what is being said locally, that they need more money so that they can hire enough people, for example. in the care of the elderly — where the staff struggle and many of the elderly do not get the help they need — or at school, where the teacher does not have time to talk to all the students every day. Then that's what's most important. That's what we're listening to. But we have a proposal in this position, and that is that the municipalities should have greater power over, for example. the school structure. It is a basic task that the municipalities have today, as they in principle, I believe, should have full authority over – that the state should not be able to approve private schools, which means that money goes out of the municipal economy. Well, we have good proposals for it, but the local reform that this government is proposing is SV against. We're in favour of voluntary community merger. We are opposed to someone losing or getting bad out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e973	It was an interesting post by the representative Andersen had. Non-directional proposals, says the representative. In many ways, there is an inherent distrust of the local elected level when a wanted right-wing and ringing. Nor can I see that the representative answered the Tuskedal question. We are not going to get a lot of concerns from smaller municipalities that have problems recruiting professionals both in the environmental sector and – not least – the latest now: among nurses. It's not that they can't hire, but they can't recruit. Is it not the representative of Andersen that it is worrying and that there is a reason to have a wider and wider professional environment by implementing a community reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e980	If you had been sure big municipalities had made it, there would have been one thing, but you're not. I think the representative of Skkelstad, for example. must look at this city, which is missing, inter alia: a large number of pre-school teachers. So there's a lot of things that make you unable to recruit and keep people. The first point is that you have to have a local economy that is such that you can actually pursue an employer policy that allows you to recruit. Point 2 is that you have to train enough people. If so, for example. For a small number of nurses or for a small number of health professionals, as it is, more training is needed and an employer policy is needed to enable them to be recruited. But I do not ignore the fact that there may be a need for some municipalities to merge, and SV supports it. SV also supports that you should not lose weight by joining together, or that you should not win by joining together. We think this actually the municipal sector is fully capable of figuring out the sea. It is perhaps the greatest trust we have in the local government sector, but which the left obviously does not have, that will resort to coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e987	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e990	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough and thorough consideration of the mission message and, in particular, thank the Christian People's Party and the Left, who, together with the government parties, have found good solutions. I am pleased that the government's proposals are in all materially supported by the majority in the Grand Duchy. It provides the municipalities with a good basis for further work on the community reform and good leadership in the work on regional reform. The government will build society from below. We want to move power and authority closer to the inhabitants, so that they can control more of their own everyday life and their own social development. We want better welfare services and a living local democracy. Let me remind you why we started the municipal reform: the municipal structure of the day remained largely after discussions in the 1940s and 1950s, and was initiated by the Schei Commission in the 1960s. That was when Kennedy was president and Beatles topped the hit lists. That was the decade the households got a refrigerator and someone got a car. Since then, most things have changed – just not the municipal structure. We've become many more people in the country, we live elsewhere than before, we have a different business structure, and we live in completely different ways. The municipalities have been given 30–40 new statutory tasks. They are getting more and more responsibility for more and more professionally demanding services, services that are crucial to the well-being of the population. At the same time, we have a municipal structure where half of the municipalities in the country have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. We have municipalities with small and vulnerable trade unions, who can't do the big tasks they've been given. We have municipalities that depend on so much intercommunal cooperation to solve their tasks that they are actually put in check with the management of services. In other words, many municipalities are too small for the tasks they are responsible for. Many municipalities have out-of-date borders that do not match today's everyday regions. Today's municipal boundaries stand in the way of the good solutions in growing areas in and around the big cities. In order for urban areas to cope with the major challenges and opportunities created by growth, it is necessary to change the municipal structure. If we are to avoid too much centralization, we need larger municipalities and stronger cities across the country. We are not implementing the municipal reform because we want to change Norway, but because Norway has changed. The municipalities of the day and the future must take care of better and more holistic services for citizens of good and safe communities with conditions for growth and development good and fair management of sustainable social development that ensures that we have enough housing, environmentally friendly transport solutions, exciting employment opportunities and a strong business life I notice that the attitude is also the broad political recognition of the challenges of today's municipal structure. The question is whether we are able to go from recognising the challenges to implementing the solutions. To refer to former Vice-President of the Workers' Party Helga Pedersen, who in his speech to the Central Government of the Workers' Party asked the following questions about implementing a municipal reform: How do we come from A to B? That's a good question, because it's not enough to want it, you have to do it. Now we're doing well, from A to B, from recognition to implementation. Closely all municipalities are in the process of talking to their neighbors. More and more citizens and local politicians are still in favour of bringing together municipalities. Some are negotiating, others are finished negotiating. The first application for aggregation has already been submitted and approved. Many municipalities say they are in good process and believe that they will change. With the setting we're dealing with today, we're taking another step towards making the municipalities stronger and better. I am pleased that the government's proposal for new tasks for the municipalities is largely supported by the majority in Stortinget. That means we're going from centralization and detail management to decentralization and the spread of power. We give municipalities bigger tasks and more authority. It will also make it more interesting to be a local politician. We give the municipalities more tasks, so they can give a more comprehensive offer to their inhabitants. We ensure that the services can be developed more closely so that their different needs are seen in the context and addressed in a better way. When municipalities are given greater responsibility for dental health, aids and permanent work, users will experience that services they need in everyday life become part of the offer to the municipality where they live. Both the government and the majority of the population stress that the rights of users must be established. The bourgeois parties have a long tradition of fighting for patient rights and moving power from the system to the users. That work will continue. We also stress that resources should follow the tasks, so that municipalities have a real opportunity to continue and further develop the offers. We have confidence that elected representatives of all parties throughout the country will do well for their citizens. We know that they work with great commitment that children, young people, older people, friends, neighbors and acquaintances in their own community should have the best possible offer. We know that it is not just government bureaucrats and big business politicians who can provide good welfare. When we now equip the municipalities to take more responsibility, the government has also started work on a general review of government governance. The aim is to reduce state detail management and provide more space for employees, citizens and elected people to find solutions that are suitable for them in their local environment. We have assumed that the generalist municipality system should continue to be the main model for the municipal sector. As a general rule, new tasks shall be transferred to all municipalities. The main reason is that today's system contributes to a transparent general government for the inhabitants and smaller sectorisation and grey areas. However, an exception has been made to this by allowing larger municipalities, under certain conditions, to assume responsibility for public transport. In the communication, the government proposes to invite the county councils into the community reform, so that the regional level is developed in parallel with the municipal reform. It has been a strong wish and demand from the Left and Christian People's Party, and therefore we have found good solutions with the two parties. We imagine a regionally elected level that can play a greater role in social development and meet the different challenges facing the regions of our country. Change in municipal boundaries means that the counties should also look at their borders. In the summer of 2015, the county councils will be invited to initiate neighbouring talks with a view to clarifying whether it is appropriate to join neighbouring counties. The counties are given a deadline for the autumn of 2016 to notify back what they want. Subsequently, regional breakdown could be assessed by Stortinget together with the municipal boundaries in spring 2017. There has been a debate from several representatives on permanent work. In the message, we will show you, among other things: to a report from the Institute of Labour Research, which shows that users of VTA often become victims of a move between municipalities and Nav because the responsibility is unclear today. Our wish is to have a clearer responsibility and an opportunity for the municipalities to look more holistically at services. Many say they want strong communities and less state central government. Many say that there are challenges with today's municipal structure, and that municipalities do not provide their citizens with their good enough services. Many people say that we need to drive more holistically in social development, among other things. to achieve the climate objectives. Many say that the mind is evenly distributed, and that we have to give local elected people more space for action. Today we're not just saying all of this, we're doing something about it. We're starting to point to the challenges of implementing the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1072	In the setting, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left go in to investigate what is called "a natural balance between state responsibility and municipal responsibility" for aids and long-term job creation. Can the Minister of Local Affairs provide a clear and clear guarantee that the organisations of disabled people are actively involved in the investigation work to be carried out, for example: by sitting in a sample — not just being referred to peripheral reference groups without real influence on the conclusions to be drawn at the end?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1079	The answer to that question is that of course the organisations of disabled people should be involved. How we do it, of course, we'll get back to it. But it is also true that we have met with the organisations of the disabled in connection with the work we have had so far. What's our concern about task transfer is to provide citizens with better services. We know that today the municipalities are partly responsible for the tools. Nav also has a responsibility. We do not believe that today's division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality is correct. We want to look at how we can get a better distribution of responsibilities between the state and the municipality, so that citizens can get better services. For example, why should this be done? are the municipalities responsible for temporary aid, while the State is responsible for permanent aid? Many of the tools that older people need in their everyday lives are durable tools, for which the municipality may be responsible. It is about better responsibilities, better responsibilities and better solutions for citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1088	Then I hope the government will come back with something that is better anchored than what has been presented so far. Schools are one of the most important and most important tasks that municipalities have. For this reason, it is essential for the school, but also very essential for local democracy, that each municipality itself has its own hand on the steering wheel in terms of its school structure. The right-wing rapporteur, Jonny Finstad, has, among other things: have learned that a montessori school has provided the municipality with a more expensive structure. He fears that he has to go to public school. Now the government opens up far more private schools. It is likely that many more municipalities will come into the situation in West Wagey. The right-wing rapporteur on West Wagey believes that local politicians should have a decisive influence on such matters, while the right-wing government believes that this can be decided by the Education Directorate. Why is the Directorate better qualified to decide on this than its own rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1097	Here we have found good solutions together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party. We are now implementing a moderate change to the private school law, so that more schools can be established. There are also questions about the needs of citizens and the rights of parents. But let me say that I think it's great that there's a local commitment around this. It's not like all the workers' party's local politicians dance after Helga Pedersen's pipe either. For example, the excellent rapporteur in Skien, Hedda Foss Five, has suggested that Skien should be able to take responsibility for the secondary schools. There are also many other examples of local politicians having different views than what we have at national level. I think that's okay. Let me also say that I think the Labour Party's behaviour in this debate is amazing. The Labour Party has not had a single proposal on how to strengthen local democracy. Everything has been about criticizing. There are no proposals that can help to strengthen local democracy. It also says a little about the situation of the Workers' Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1106	Has Helga Pedersen asked for three lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1114	She's asking for the third line now. She'll get it, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1117	Thank you so much for that, President! That's not right, what the Council of State says. The Labour Party promotes many proposals in this position – alone and together with others – but our starting point is better services for the population. My question was not about internal disagreements in the parties either, but whether it is not a great paradox that the Right believes that transferring civil marriage and dental health to the municipalities is strengthening local democracy, while they believe that in terms of school structure, the municipalities should not have this opportunity. What the Council of State Sanner calls a moderate change is, in reality, a free slip for private schools. And when this is released, private schools are to be financed through one of the school budgets of the municipalities. That's why we're going to get more examples of á la Vestvåg. Therefore, my question was: Why does the Council of State think that the Directorate is better qualified to determine the school structure in West Wågøy and in municipalities other than the Right – and Workers Party – of its own local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1128	The right to establish health schools and the right to attend high school is also a matter of fundamental human rights. This isn't just about the municipality's ability to choose, it's also about the individual's right. These are fundamental human rights. So it's not like we're transferring dental health to the municipality. We transfer responsibility for dental health to the municipalities. We believe that public dentistry belongs more naturally to school health and community health services than to public transport and county roads. One of those I met at a county dentistry clinic, stressed that it was quite natural that they were organized with the municipality. Because, as she said, we're some of the first to discover that a child is abused or abused, then it's complicated that we're at a different level of government than the school health service and child protection. We move tasks – not for fun, but to provide citizens with better and more holistic services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1137	A diffi report points out that municipal politicians believe strong management from the Directorates – in terms of health, education, nature management, preparedness, etc. – is the biggest challenge for local democracy. They point to increasing reporting requirements, but also to professional intervention. The directors are esering out. During these days, the Storting will deal with proposals from the government to establish a new Directorate: the Directorate for Railways. The development in the direction of more and larger directorates is continued by the blue-blue government. The task message gives a very limited signal about some changes to this. The question is: has the government given up its first point in the Sundvolden Declaration under the Vignette on Strong Municipalities, where it says that they will ‘strengthen local democracy by shifting power and responsibility to the municipalities’? Where are the concrete proposals for the transfer of power and responsibility from the Directorates to municipalities and county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1143	I hope that the Centre Party can become an ally in this work, because there is no doubt that, as we have also seen in the Stortinget during the discussion of this matter, that proposals for tasks that we want to transfer to the municipalities have been rejected, and there have been few suggestions on how to reduce state detail management. But let me just point out that rehabilitation, trials with district psychiatric centers, aids, housing grants, permanent work, state child protection, grants to volunteer centres, simplification of outreach management, outreach motor traffic – all are examples of the transfer of power from state to municipality. When I entered the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernization, it was 80 pst. the objections settled in the Ministry were settled for the benefit of the State itself. The new government has given the municipalities right in 80 pst. of the cases. In other words, there is a clear change from state detail management and over-test to greater local freedom and strengthening of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1148	In many debates, the Council of State has accused me of creating the impression that this is a forced reform. I'm not going to try to go against it, because I still see this as a forced reform. Once again, it is clarified that there will be a matter for Stortinget in the spring of 2017 where the municipal structure will be established. The Council of State was in its intervention that the wit is evenly distributed throughout the country, and that is at least a claim we are fully agreed on. But why can't we respect the fact that the sense is evenly distributed, even when it comes to decisions on municipal structure? Why should there be a proposition to the Stortinget in spring 2017 if this is not to be a forced reform? Voluntary community merger is not treated by Stortinget. Should we not now agree that the common sense is also evenly distributed in terms of municipal structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1155	Here I think there must be some misunderstandings, for the only proposal of coercion that exists in this position, that is put forward by the Labour Party. The Labour Party is the only party that has made a proposal for coercion in this position, and that is that Oslo and Akershus occupy, representing 25 pst. by the population of the country, shall be brought together by coercion. It's the only coercion proposal that's here. When we believe that there is a proposition to be made for Stortinget in spring 2017, it is because we assume that there will be municipalities that want to move the municipal border, and we also want to see the task changes in connection with changes in the municipal reform – and then there may be some isolated cases where one has to get away from the volunteer line. But we're very clear that volunteering and good local processes are at the root of it, but that there may be exceptions, as the majority of the Stortinge decided on the treatment of the municipal proposition last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1162	‘There has been a broad consensus in Norway that work should be a state responsibility. If the state disclaims this responsibility for those who need it the most, it means that we introduce an A team and a B team in Norwegian working life. Developmentally disabled people and others in need of assistance will again end up at the bottom of the table, risking that the more sunny right of all others to work will no longer apply to them. There is only one word for this – discrimination.’ These aren't my words, these are the directors of ASVL, former Right-State Council Victor Norman, who pronounces, and he's right, because he's okay with it. I get worried when I hear that the Council of State now refers to an investigation that says that there are some municipalities that kind of want to take care of the whole human being. Yes, I can refer to a report from the Norwegian School of Commerce that shows that permanent work is the most socio-economically profitable, and that it cannot be replaced by activity, which the Council of State will give the municipalities the right to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1171	I believe that at this point we just have to admit that we disagree. I registered that Andersen's representative in an earlier post when it was about local responsibility, said that it is not in «safe hands». We disagree as to what the state should be responsible for and what local politicians should be responsible for. We are followers of strong local democracy, and we trust that local politicians independent of the party will be our citizens well – and we believe that when you see the tasks more fully, it can also provide better services to the citizens. When it is the case that responsibility has been transferred for serious sick people and persons with mental health to the municipalities, I believe it is particularly true that the municipalities should not be able to take responsibility for some labour market measures and aids.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1178	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1181	The government is often busy merging and getting bigger and more robust professional environments. However, in high school they will not collect but split up. Today, the majority of the city’s population opens up for large urban municipalities to take over secondary schools. This happens without the government being able to predict the way in which to improve the quality of the training for which it is provided, namely the students. The reasons given by the majority parties for this change seem to me to be elusive. They only write that today’s test law continues – implicitly that there is no change. It might be in theory. In reality, it's a shift. So far, no one has interpreted the law or the political signals as being a real opportunity. Today, a new signal is sent from the majority at Stortinget that high school is ‘up for kids’ if you as a municipality are big enough and ambitious enough. High-level training is a major task. In secondary education, the counties shall provide 12 different education programmes, more than 200 schools and even more education. These include: recognise apprenticeships and apprenticeships, follow-up enterprises, set up vocational training courses, move with the labour market throughout the region, provide follow-up services for those outside, and take care of the small and narrow subjects – all at the same time as all students in all parts of the county have a good offer. This requires good and robust professional environments – to use a favourite term for the minister. Instead, it can go the other way: instead of collecting, the bulk opens to split. It is not very clear how this policy should provide a better offer for students. It is not very easy to understand how you get less bureaucracy from having more people do the same job. In what way will there be less bureaucracy in a state with two school administrations, two school managers, two follow-up services, two admissions, two structures? Is there really going to be more quality of having two professional environments in one state, each of which becomes less than what you have today? How to maintain regional, popular school management? The answer is that it's going to be very difficult. Now there are two things happening at once. The new Private School Act opens up far more private schools; the threshold for setting up such places is significantly lowered. At the same time, it opens up the possibility for urban municipalities to manage secondary education. Then the general responsibility of the state politicians goes away. At least that gives me a great deal of concern for the district schools. That a large municipality such as Trondheim, Tromsø or Bergen should be able to set up classes on their own before the subjects they want, perhaps picking the most popular offers, on its side will lead to the county municipality having to adjust its offer, with increased uncertainty for the schools in the district. It is undemocratic that a large municipality should in practice be able to determine the school offer in the rest of the county. Now, of course, you can avoid this, either by shutting down cross-border admissions or by depriving city councils of responsibility for dimensioning. But then, in practice, there is an attempt without content and without meaning. In short, the new signals of the Government, the Christian People's Party and the Left can give us less of what we need, and more of what we don't want – more school owners, but less trade unions, fewer funds for the county councils and more uncertainty for the district schools. It fragments School-Norway when we need total stitching. When Rogaland is the best in the country to get apprenticeships, it's not because Stavanger has taken responsibility in his part of the county. It's because the county itself, as a school owner, cooperates with the entire working life of its region. When Sogn and Fjordane deliver good results, these include: because they have cooperated more, not because they have shared responsibility. The Workers' Party believes that the services should be managed from the most appropriate level for it. Further training shall provide competent labour; it shall provide good candidates for higher education. Everything will be done in cooperation with the labour market throughout the region. It's a problem that's best solved at a regional, elected level, not by breaking up the offer and pulverizing responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1202	It has been a long time to get a local reform going in Norway, and this government, in conjunction with the cooperation parties, has provided a good basis for doing so. Already in the autumn of 2014, municipalities throughout the country were invited to participate in processes with a view to assessing and clarifying whether it is appropriate to join neighbouring municipalities. The aim of the community reform is to ensure good and equivalent services for the inhabitants, to co-ordinate societal development, to provide resilient and economically robust municipalities and to strengthen local democracy. It is an overarching objective for municipalities to be strengthened as service producers, authority operators, social developers and as democratic venues. The municipal reform will enable municipalities to carry out these tasks in a better way, so that citizens can get better services and municipalities are better equipped to meet future challenges. The community has developed a lot since the previous municipal reform in the 1960s, and the municipalities have been getting more and more demanding tasks. Many municipalities are too small today to cope with large and demanding tasks and adequately guarantee the rights of their inhabitants. Furthermore, it is a challenge that local borders do not always match today's natural urban and labour market regions. This prevents holistic societal planning and development, which is crucial to meet future needs for housing, environmentally friendly transport solutions and societal development. Municipalities with stronger skills and more resources are better placed to provide good services to their citizens and to drive forward-looking societal development. This will also strengthen the municipalities as the local democratic arena and provide the basis for demarcating state detail management. This will give municipalities a much larger room for action to find good local solutions. It is positive that the principle of generalist municipality is established as a general rule for the municipal sector, both in the main message and in the setting. The majority also indicate that a home is to be found that clarifies how a co-operation rule should ensure the quality of services and the legal security of citizens in cases where municipalities cannot keep this property. It is very good and important that most municipalities are already doing this process, and I want to commend the municipalities for their local leadership. It is also positive that the statesmen and KS play an important role in this work. In my home country Sogn and Fjordane there are many good processes going on. The ones that are the longest are the municipalities of Sunnfjord. They carried out regional cooperation Cooperation in Sunnfjord, SiS, early thanks to the municipal reform work. This resulted in the decision by the local government in Flora, Naustdal, Jölster, Gaular and Förde in December 2014 to implement a process against any major unit and to prepare for a merger. Later, the municipalities of Askvoll, Fjaler, Hyllestad and Gloppen have asked to participate in the process. The municipality of Solund is an observer, but has been opened at the last meeting to join the merger process. There is a dedicated organisation for this work, with a steering group, project group and own secretariat. However, the local government in each municipality owns the process in its own municipality. Several joint Presidency meetings have been held recently several weeks ago. At this meeting, joint commitments were reviewed and approved. These Memorandums of Understanding are to be discussed and approved in each municipality in the summer. Several merger options have been added. These options include a large municipality with nine municipalities, a common municipality of SiS or a municipality of inner Sunnfjord. Depending on the municipality government in the different municipalities, the municipal reform work will be continued in the autumn of 2015. By 1 June 2016, each municipality shall have made final decisions as to the municipality in which it wishes to be included. The community reform work in Sunnfjord has our mark of ever-growing glow and commitment. Especially the largest option seems to arouse great interest, and many think it has in it great views and visions. One of the ideas behind this option is that it could be a new and enhanced force between Bergen and Ålesund, which many today think the region is missing. A new large municipality of the previous 9 – and maybe 10 – municipalities will approach a population of 50,000, and it will be almost half of those who live in Sogn and Fjordane. It will be very interesting and exciting to follow the process in Sunnfjord. They have laid a very good foundation for achieving a comprehensive community reform, and I am proud of the work done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1244	After years of drought of reform, the government has made important proposals to modernise and improve local government in Norway. A small thought experiment: the ideal local administrative structure in a land area slightly above the average European country with a little over 5 million inhabitants would have been if we had cut out the county and established a place between 100 and 200 municipalities that were relatively comparable in terms of area and population. Thus, even larger parts of public service production and service could be left to these municipalities, and task allocation would be very easy. But – Norway is a country with a lack of geography, and it is perhaps best illustrated by the fact that the largest county in Norway, Finnmark, is it that has fewer inhabitants, while Oslo, on the other hand, is clearly the least populated in area, but at the same time Oslo does not only have most inhabitants, but Oslo alone has more inhabitants than the four northernmost counties – Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and Nord-Trøndelag – together, i.e. a little more in terms of population. The 15 largest municipalities together have almost 40 pst. of the country's population, while the other 60 pst. divides into over 400 municipalities. The 15 largest municipalities have a total of approx. 2 million inhabitants. 27 municipalities have less than 1000 inhabitants. These have a total of 20,157 inhabitants, and together these 27 municipalities have fewer inhabitants than the municipality of Nes in Rome in Akershus, or the municipality of Røken in Buskerud. The largest municipality in Norway has slightly more inhabitants than the 247 smallest municipalities combined. It says a little about the diversity of Norwegian municipalities, and it says that the division of tasks here is not very easy either. We are in an election situation today. We can maintain the municipal structure much like today. Then it'll be inevitable that what we call A and B municipalities arises. For the smallest municipalities, it is difficult enough to meet the requirements of the municipalities today, and there will be even more work to be done. The alternative is mainly voluntary aggregation, especially of some of the smallest municipalities, to larger municipalities. In this way, we will get robust, resource-intensive units that are better equipped to get started on new tasks. However, even after a municipal reform, there will be a large difference between municipalities in terms of size – both area and population. It seems that most of us agree that as many problems as possible should be solved locally. To doubt an out-of-date municipal structure will be the most serious obstacle to doing so. The strategy recommended by the government and the four cooperation parties will, on its side, be the best tool to avoid getting A and B municipalities, and to get a municipal structure that is suitable for meeting the challenges of the future in Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1259	I think there is little disagreement in this room about the role of volunteering in Norwegian society. The many hundreds of volunteer centres in Norway have impressive 40,000 volunteers participating in different activities to the great pleasure of both children and adults. There is activity throughout the country, and the value of their work cannot be measured in dollars. On June 3rd this year, in Hell, in Trøndelag, a country association for volunteer centres was established. The volunteers from the north to the south have been involved in the transfer of State grants to the volunteer centres directly from the municipalities. Once again, they are concerned about the consequences of such a transfer, even with earring, and I would like to say a few words about the concern that arose on June 3rd. There are many different ownership structures in volunteer centres that make it a complex image. Some are organizational ideas. Some are voluntarily driven or municipal owned. They are concerned about how new volunteer centres will organise themselves in the future – and what about municipal mergers where there may be more centres within the same boundaries? On a scale from one to ten, the volunteer centres asked what value they have for government and ministry when these changes are being implemented today. The questions were more and there was a great deal of concern. The working party believes that there is a basis for asking what is the background for the conversion. If there's a desire for simplification that's behind it, the volunteer agencies themselves don't feel that in the future it'll be easier, but it's possible it might be a simplification for the department. The work done in the centres shall be based on the competence of the volunteers. Voluntary centres shall not undertake municipal tasks but shall perform tasks outside the core tasks of the municipalities. For well over 20 years, the operation of volunteer centres has been a shattering layer between countries and different local exposures. They are organized from below and up and free from top control. Volunteer centres have been a success for society for all years, a success that society in Norway still needs. My question is, why change something that works so well? The state has contributed, been close. It says something about society and the state caring – together – for the volunteers. There is a risk of fragmentation of local and national cooperation. I am sorry that we are voting today on the committee's attitude to the government's proposal to lower volunteer centres at municipal level. There are errors about a system that looked at those degrees as close as they are in love and of great value to Norwegian society. There are errors for the many volunteers, and I am sorry that we are not listening to them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1280	This hall and perhaps the municipal committee in particular is alive and sincerely concerned with local democracy. Local democracy is partly about, as the Council of State has been very concerned about, removing state detail management, for example. by means of a project in which it is attempted to allow the county councillors to coordinate state objections and interests in relation to the local authority's right to plan and regulate the area. I am very pleased, and share the opinion of the Council of State, that this arrangement has now been strengthened and expanded by the government of Stoltenberg. But local democracy and local democracy are not just about removing state regulations. It is also about expanding and strengthening the local space for action. The point that we're not going to go to the depths of today, but that there's a need to pull out is about local economy. There is a very different approach between the Workers' Party on the one hand and the Government on the other hand in terms of the framework conditions, which is what we believe the municipalities should have. The second thing that we don't discuss here, but that should have had a much greater place in the debate, is related to the need to raise skills and give employees in the municipal sector who every day do an important job, the opportunity to stay up-to-date and develop their own skills. It will be a very important and very central measure to strengthen innovation, increase efficiency and find new solutions in municipalities. The third thing that is important for the Workers' Party when we talk about streamlining and improving the municipal sector is just about moving on to tasks so that citizens actually get better services based on a factual basis. We're not trying to move tasks that are just motivated by the fact that we want to create larger and more robust units. The generalist community principle is a difficult word to use; it has 27 letters and is also poorly suited to crosswords, as there are not many people in this country who have an active relationship with it. But the meaning of the word is important. It is about something as simple as that all municipalities or county councils should be responsible for the same tasks. Or rather, the generalist community system implies that all municipalities, regardless of population, housing structure, geography and other conditions, must meet the same requirements. It concerns both services, planning and development tasks, the task of authority and the provision of democratic functions. I agree with the representative Jensen who earlier emphasised in this debate that this unified task sharing is a strength for the Municipality of Norway. It gives an equivalent local self-government in all parts of the country. It contributes to a transparent government of the population and lower process costs. Of course, it is demanding to organize a country that is so different, as the representative Myhre was also involved in his post, with so different geography, so different peoples, so different prerequisites for meeting different challenges. It is a fact and a premise that was underlined in the debate we have on changes in the municipal structure and changes in the tasks of municipalities, that the challenges are very different. There are some municipalities in the press areas where the influx of people is larger than you can handle. Others struggle to get enough people to do the problems you have. Some people have high incomes; others don't have that much money at their disposal. Nevertheless, the generalist principle has its advantages because we have different solutions. It's just about local democracy – tailoring. It's cost-effective. It strengthens democracy, and then we have to live with the differences that are coming. For the Workers' Party, the reform itself is not important, but what is important is that we get better services for the citizens. We never opted for a municipal reform, but we opted for changes in the municipal structure based on voluntary beliefs and local initiatives. This municipal reform, as the government presents it and chooses to implement it with the support of the majority in the UK, is not a reform of the Labour Party. What we've been told during the day is at least that the generalist principle should be essentially firm, but it's a very different opinion about when to deviate. The representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left argue that it should protect the small municipalities and inculcate and restrict the possibility of providing, for example: higher education for larger municipalities, while government parties argue that we should deviate when there is a basis for larger municipalities to take on tasks other than small municipalities. This cracks in all directions. This is not a uniform reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1300	I want to start by thanking both the Christian People's Party and the Left for good cooperation in this matter. We are today going to adopt the greatest shift of power and tasks from state to municipality in many decades. With this move of new tasks to the municipalities, we go from centralisation and detailed management to decentralisation and the spread of power. We believe that more tasks closer to the population allow municipalities to provide better, more comprehensive and more individually organised services. At the same time, some parties need to realize that the world has progressed especially in recent decades, now that it is approaching a whole generation since we had the previous municipal reform. The country has changed. People live differently. What does this mean in practice? Well, more and more people choose to move to cities. It's essentially positive. Our job as politicians must then be to make sure that these people can create a good future and live their dreams out. Right will work for live cities that help to create opportunities for their inhabitants. Cities are attractive places to live and work, and an increasing proportion of the population move there. But that is why it is also important that we enable cities to meet these challenges. We do that by giving them more power when we adopt today's mission message. The right starting point is a policy that enables the individual to create a good future for himself and the people around him. We believe that the best way to do it is through a good school, education, good urban development and a policy that secures jobs. If cities are to be a driving force for growth in their region, they must also have the tools. Let me take two examples of important tasks that we are now doing so that the big cities can work with. It's high school, and it's public transport. With the Right in Government, the largest cities are now given a clear signal for the first time that we want initiative, where cities want to be test municipalities to take responsibility for high school. We believe that the largest cities can give students an even better offer when they get the opportunity to see the entire schooling in context. Better follow-up and organisation for individuals and less drop-outs in school will be some of the results such test schemes can show. That's why we're positive. We want cities to apply, but we also encourage them to get bigger in some contexts. There is no doubt that the type of pilot schemes should be linked to clear conditions of cooperation and equivalent school provision for all students in the county. I'm sure they will reap the same experiences that we have in Oslo. We're just lifting the individual student. We're raising the teachers, and we're raising the whole school. In the case of public transport, we see that the largest cities have repeatedly given a signal that they can make an even better collective offer if they are given this responsibility. It will give them a better chance to think of overall urban development, overall land development where infrastructure, public transport and housing are linked and local politicians can decide on this for themselves. Of course, I'm assuming, as we also assume, that there is a cooperation with the rest of the county to ensure an overall offer there as well. So I'm going to use my last minute to talk about something important that could have happened in this room, but as the new bulk of the population now prevents. I thought I had heard the worst in the area of municipal reform when the representatives of the centre party from some cities and municipalities proposed to divide the municipality of Oslo into 15 new municipalities. Then I thought that now it can't be worse. It hasn't been, I have to say. But we've got a strong second place. We can read a proposal from the Workers' Party, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a separate establishment of a regionally elected level in the capital area. The aim is to merge the minimum Oslo and Akershus County Municipality, possibly also larger parts of the Capital Region.» Larger parts of the capital area – if Oslo and Akershus are minimum, then we talk a bit of Buskerud, a little eastfold, a little westfold as well. We don't know anything about that, but fortunately we have a huge majority that will ensure that that kind of coercion of the counties doesn't take place – fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1322	The task report points to some specific areas where it is proposed that municipalities take over responsibility from other levels of government. It is natural and right that municipalities have a broad definition of responsibility for the population, but a general question must be: Will the proposed task assignment to municipalities provide better services for the population? If you cannot answer an unequivocal yes to this, there is reason to think about it and think about it at least twice more. The Workers' Party believes that the government's municipal reform gives little to the municipalities. Many are concerned that the tasks actually transferred become only costs and not real power or responsibility. In addition, it is evident that the regional level, the county municipality, is considerably weakened, and that is worrying. The aim of the task reform is, according to the government, to establish larger and more robust municipal units, in order to facilitate good professional environments and better quality in municipal service production, and that is a good goal. In the health field, the government has seized individual services and selected parts of the field. Perhaps the most incomprehensible and strange thing is the proposed changes for dental care. The transfer of public dental services from county municipalities to municipalities is the most comprehensive single proposal in the health field in the government's proposal for municipal reform. And it is difficult to see the professional sense in transferring the public dental service from strong professional environments in the county municipalities to fragmented environments in many municipalities, where in the future – no matter how the reform is going to happen – there will be a significant number of small municipalities with few inhabitants. Some of the reasons for this proposal are difficult to see. As far as I know, no investigations or previous proposals have recommended the local government level for public dental services. County administration of dental care, as the Labour Party sees it, has been a correct answer so far. The challenge has been — and is — the recruitment of sufficient dental practitioners to the scattered parts of the country. Because the county authorities have had a professional and administrative weight, recruitment and allocation of human resources between clinics and districts have been successful, including in areas with a scattered population. In this way, the professional environment is also large enough to ensure both qualified staff and economic and quality economies of scale. Of course, municipalities can also engage in dental work. Much remains to be done, not least in the prevention field. Good dental prevention work should probably be as natural a task for municipalities as other preventive and health promotion activities. Another proposal from the government is that district psychiatric centres, or DPSs they are called, should be taken over by the municipalities. The DPS have interdisciplinary specialised health teams working to provide patients with the best possible investigation and treatment. They are systematically built up in different parts of the country, but still there is work to get the structure that is sufficient. The DPS professionals shall provide guidance and advice on the first line service, i.e.: to the deputies and other personnel in the municipalities. Special outpatient clinics should help those who experience psychosis and serious personality disorders, and there are emergency teams that are lowthreshold services for those who have recently experienced a mental illness or a severe depressive reaction. This type of specialised health care can be difficult to transfer to municipalities without compromising their quality, depending on the government believes that responsibility should primarily be taken over by the large municipalities. Today, we know that municipalities are evenly lacking in psychiatric health services at first line level, and we need to build up this service and strengthen cooperation between the very first line and the specialised offer. So the government is talking about that rehabilitation should be more widely taken over by the municipalities. We don't necessarily disagree with that. The red-green government with Jonas Gahr Støre, Minister of Health, struck a blow for «working day rehabilitation». However, it should be primarily as part of the municipal health service and not as specialised rehabilitation that is transferred to the municipalities. It is perhaps advisable to go to the task breakdown in the rehabilitation and rehabilitation field that was outlined in a selection work in 2011. The committee had quite a number of reasonable suggestions on how to allocate the tasks in this field and be mutually complementary to the community health and specialist health services. The Generalist Commune is under heavy pressure. It's not very reliable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1346	The government with the municipal minister Jan Tore Sanner and his gunman in the municipal committee, the city council representative Njåstad from the Progress Party – also leader of the committee – dragged to the autumn of 2013 and launched a large-scale municipal reform where all the municipalities of the country would sit together and talk about how the tasks would be resolved for the future, just as if the municipalities were not preoccupied with this. The municipality-Norway I know is full of committed local politicians and competent staff who spend time every day streamlining, renewing and improving the municipal services, and they succeed to a large extent, regardless of government reform. The background music for the municipalities to come together now – the bigger, the better – was that they should be given tasks of historical dimensions. If the municipalities of Norway were to have any opportunity to solve these new tasks, they would have to be significantly larger than they are today. Even the government had an expert committee that believed and believed that no municipalities could or should have less than 15 000-20 000 inhabitants. Local government members and rapporteurs around the country took the government seriously and started up to several neighbouring talks in the strong belief that soon, the announcement came from the government about all the new tasks that were to come to the local politicians. Then came the much-mentioned document. Was it cheering in the municipalities? Was it joyful in the county councils, or was it joyful in the central federation of the municipalities? The answer is no to all the questions. The jubilee was missed, if you ignore some government representatives who, of course, tried to sell this message as the biggest thing that has happened to the municipalities since 1964, or when Elvis – or Beatles I have heard now – was at the top of the hit lists, which the municipal minister likes to present it. At least this new task message did not reach the top of the local authorities' hit lists. On the contrary, here our local and regional politicians saw quite soon that the content was thin, yes it was more than thin. There were very few tasks for the municipalities that would give local democracy the strong promise that the Right Party and the Advance Party had promised. This message appears to be incomplete, poorly thought out and poorly established, as shown by the change in line. Much of what is contained in the notification is only an indication of what is to be further assessed or further investigated. Nevertheless, the government and its supporting parties believe that this document is very suitable for the members of the local government to build on when to continue discussions on the need for community reunification for the future, or whether there are other models that should and should be chosen when citizens are to receive their services. One should be loyal to one’s own government if one seriously believes that the transfer of wedding rights to rapporteurs, notarial confirmations or – flax – ‘sport-functional prior approval of swimming facilities’ are important and historically new tasks to the municipalities. There has been no lack of warnings. A number of user organisations, professional organisations and stakeholder organisations warn against breaking up, for example: dental services. They warn against breaking down the responsibility for secondary education, and they believe that transferring responsibility for public transport from the counties to the municipalities will offer a worse offer than today’s system. It further warns against transferring financial responsibilities for volunteer centres, work trips and facilities. In short, many professionals and stakeholder organisations believe that the message is very poorly thought out and provides very poor answers to the questions that the government itself has asked. The working party – alone and together with other parties – has a number of suggestions for the Storting in this Communication. It would have been to hope that these proposals had been adopted. It would provide municipalities and county municipalities with a much better starting point for shaping the service organisation of the future where people live and live. As the task message now appears, there was too little control over the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1378	The task message says something about the tasks of municipalities, little about county councils, and almost nothing about how government governance should be reduced. It is important to bear in mind the government's words that this should be a democratic reform in which decision-making powers should also be moved closer to the citizens. If this is the case, the message says a little too little. Last year, the big business asked our government to be concrete on tasks to be transferred from state to municipality, and to strengthen the elected regional level. However, the task transfers mentioned in the notification go little from the state to municipalities and county municipalities, but from the county municipalities to the municipalities. The government ignores the widespread expectation of a serious treatment of the regional level that we now know as the county municipalities. I'm going to refer in particular to the county council as a central and collective transport actor. Today, the state is responsible for national public transport services in the form of air services and national rail services. In addition, the State is responsible for parts of the regional public transport service, such as local trains and health transport. Municipalities are responsible for public transport by bus and boat, school transport and TT transport. This requires significant coordination, which must take place in a regional context. In today’s system, there is a need for even better coordination between the different regional collective services. Then the answer is not to divide this responsibility even more and give the city councils, which is the center of a large area, the responsibility for something, and the county councils the responsibility for what remains. The seamless, good transport supply is not achieved by breaking down the responsibility further and creating new borders. Therefore, unlike the government, the aim of the Workers' Party is to erase the experience of borders and to provide passengers with the simplest and best possible offer. There is a need to see the operation and investment of the transport system in the context of, not least, the role of county councils as regional development actors. It involves looking at the whole of transport for a forward-looking development for each country, region and part of the country. Population growth, especially in the larger cities, creates challenges that can only be solved by increasing public transport, on foot and by bicycle, and by closer coordination between cities and surrounding areas. The development of land use, public transport and other transport systems are quite essential for achieving social objectives. This applies, inter alia, to: The objectives of public transport, bicycles and corridors are to take transport growth in cities, so that we get more climate-friendly, attractive cities, and that good, easy-to-use lives are to be lived outside the big cities. The county municipality is and should remain a central and collective transport operator. Almost 80 pst. by the public road network is built, owned and operated by the counties. The county councils are major transport actors responsible for the county road, ferries, boat routes and public transport. The government, with its partners, is therefore proposing that the municipal authorities be given responsibility for public transport. Collective services are, in our opinion, required to be regional and to connect the city and the surrounding area. It is a bad idea to split this responsibility up and create more and new borders. The Workers' Party will also continue to ensure the economy of the counties, so that as transport authorities they are able to own and operate the county road network, maintain the county ferries and quick-boat connections, and not least provide a forward-looking and climate-friendly collective service throughout the country, both in city and country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1395	We all live in a municipality. That is why this matter concerns most of us all. To varying degrees, there are cultural, traditional and mental differences in the municipalities. Unfortunately, this is often an obstacle to an open and good dialogue on the organisation of Commune-Norway, but we forget that this is historically conditional, and that assumptions both have changed and are going to change more and more rapidly in the future. The importance of strengthening local democracy lies as a dam over this matter – and the importance of the leading principle and objective of ensuring good and equivalent services to the inhabitants of the municipalities. However, the organisation of Kommune-Norway will also contribute to overall social development across municipal borders. We only get that if we have sustainable and economically robust municipalities. Let us at least agree that the transfer of more power and authority to the municipalities will help to strengthen local self-government and move more power closer to the inhabitants. In recent years, the opposite has happened, the centralisation and detailed management of the municipalities have increased, and frustration is spreading in the municipalities. In addition, a large number of tasks have been taken over by intercommunal bodies without direct popular influence. I myself come from a municipality with approx. 12 000 inhabitants, where this development is also noticeable. A slightly worn-out phrase — as also mentioned several times here today — is that Norway is diverse and that the wit is evenly distributed in this country. Yeah, but it's nice that we just through this case really believe in this, it shows and now decentralizes a number of problems. In particular, it is important for municipalities that the Law on Planning and Buildings is simplified and state detail management is reduced. The right and the majority will have more responsibility and more decisions closer to the citizens, so that municipalities can provide better and more customised services. It is important that local initiatives are not halted by unnecessary State barriers. There is also reason to recall that when municipal services fail, or it becomes difficult to identify in the youth of public services, it is the most vulnerable inhabitants affected. Local authorities therefore need to have sufficiently strong professional environments in order to manage more tasks. Then many municipalities have to be bigger than they are today. Some tasks are moved, other tasks are proposed to be investigated, or testing is proposed. I'm not going to go into all of these, there have been several others doing this earlier today. Several tasks are also proposed at regional level, provided that fewer counties or regions are created. If you first want to have a regional level, it is important that you have meaningful tasks. Therefore, the government is asked to review this and come back with a notice in 2016 and a proposition in 2017. It'll be exciting to see what's coming. I would like to address, in particular, one underlying issue, which the Council of State has also expressed on several occasions, and the state administrative boundaries resulting from reforms, for example. The police reform. Here we believe that these must fold if the municipalities in a given area choose to merge. After a merger, state boundaries must follow the new municipal boundaries, because of course it will be completely hopeless for a large new municipality to belong to, for example. Two police districts. From the right, we think it is natural to look at and work to ensure that it should be up to the new large municipality to have influence and perhaps also to choose its new membership. Not least, we should clearly state that this should be possible even after binding merger agreements have been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1414	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1417	This debate has had no shortage of honorary words, and it has been voiced by the government parties over the last two years as well. There have been many celebrations of a strengthened local democracy, while local democracy has been weakened in a number of areas. The Minister of Finance has been eager to centralise municipal tax collection, which fortunately has stopped the Left and Christian People's Party. It is a paradox that one of the first agriculture ministers did was to remove the system of local management of rural development funds, among others. in Valdres. Then the same Minister of Agriculture has proposed to lift the obligation of residence. Few have responded better to this than the progress party rapporteur in Hyler, who said: this must be decided by the municipalities themselves, this is where people live, people do not live in government offices. It is also a paradox that the Minister of Industry has proposed to replace the regional governments of Innovation Norway with a national government. At the same time, the Ministry of Local Affairs has cut heavily in regional development funds, which provide less room for action to drive economic development in its own country. Local democracy has weakened in a number of areas, and what was to become the largest task assignment ever has ended with dental health, notarial business, marriage and prior approval of swimming pool. It may not be so strange that the cheer has been missed. The government is talking a lot about bringing together robust and large trade unions. It is then quite difficult to understand how to better guard your teeth by breaking up the functioning of your professional environment. The same applies to higher education, where you now want to split up. The majority say that users of tools and long-term job opportunities need an overall offer. User organisations have strongly protested against this. They do not want that responsibility to be transferred to the municipalities. We hear that the government parties are very concerned to have confidence in the local people – but obviously not enough trust when they vote down our proposal that municipalities should have greater authority over their own school structure. We hear that the government parties are talking about volunteering, but at the same time they are proposing to transfer volunteer centres to the municipalities. An overall voluntary movement in Norway warns against poorer conditions for volunteering and poorer provision for the population. The Labour Party is a reform party, but we are not involved in reforms for the sake of the reforms. We are involved and changing when it's for the best for the people, and when it really strengthens local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1436	In recent years, the size of the population has made good decisions to strengthen the situation of those with disabilities. The HVPU reform made sure that the developing world got to share in society in the same way as others. They got out of the institutions and got a job in decent companies. They were part of the working class in Norway, with all of it involved status, rights and development, and it has meant a lot to a group of people who have not always had the same possibilities as today. With this background, it is alarming and one step in a completely different direction that the government is now considering shifting responsibility for work to the developing world and others who need a VTA site, from state to municipality. There is a proposal that put many of these important workplaces at risk. The organisations representing these groups fear that many will lose their jobs, and that the offer they receive instead is a day centre. I have worked for years with a developmental disability and know that it is far from the same. Some 9,000 people have such a job, a permanent job in all parts of the country, and when they're going to fight the municipal budget crowns in battle with schools and kindergartens and hospitals, it's easy to see who can be the losing party. And there is no need to discriminate against the developmental barriers in labour market policy in this way, especially when we know how important permanent work is for the individual – glad to see that it pays to be at work when the pay gap comes into the post, colleagues to talk to during the lunch break. A Fafo report shows that the companies that provide organised jobs are characterized by very high levels of employment. Durable work is precisely that, not care or well-being. There are decent jobs in regular enterprises where pay and working conditions are organised by collective bargaining agreements. There are no municipalities here the best they can offer. Therefore, the argument that those closest to the users are the best available is false, in this case on stone ground. Through this proposal, the government shows that they want the government to be exempted from the responsibility of providing jobs to those who are born or who have been disabled, while all other groups who need it are to be provided with government labour market measures. The government calls it a new task distribution. I understand very well the Norwegian Association for the Devolved, Joint Alliance, the Association for Management and Technology and the ASVL, which everyone calls it discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1449	As a family-political spokesperson in the Christian People's Party, I would like to underline the wise and good observation of the majority of the municipal committee on the future and organisation of family protection: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, ask the Government to investigate how family protection can be more preventive in cooperation with municipal services, in order to prevent interactions and conflicts from leading to serious family problems and life crimes. It also needs to be explored how to ensure better availability of service throughout the country. The majority believe that this does not involve reorganisation but a step towards closer cooperation with municipal services and improved accessibility for users.’ This is a very good comment. Today's two-track organisation of family protection means that there are both public and founding rights, i.e. ideal, family protection offices. Today's organization is good. There is no need for organisational changes and fragmentation of the service provision. Family protection is currently a well-functioning and well-managed service, with important tasks, high skills and good professional performance. What family protection and the people need is the strengthening and further development of family protection. Today's family protection service is a service where the ambitions of the tasks are not matched with the resources provided. It is a service of growth and a service society will serve to strengthen and add increased resources in the coming time. It is important that we understand and remember that family protection is a different type of service than municipal auxiliaries. Family protection is a specialist service with a narrow social mission, unlike municipal services. It is important that family protection is maintained as a specialist service in the future. Professional results require specialised knowledge of methodology and specialised disciplines. I hope that, in the future, we will see that the family protection we have today can have the opportunity to develop further, as set out in the good majority opinion of the Municipal Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1469	Children are important residents of municipalities, and they get the help of municipal child protection when they need it. Many municipalities have built up good skills and have good capacity to do the job well, for the benefit of children, while others need more cooperation and help to do so. All the batches here want better child protection, which ensures that no wrong decisions are made or that errors do not occur. It is then important to have the necessary skills, and it is important to look at how it can be done. When the government announces that it will look at the distribution of responsibilities between the state and the municipality, it must be seen in the light of the fact that it will be better and easier to get help at the right time, and that it means better child protection. But it is important that there are no major changes in the organisation of child protection until we know what is going on. We have to look at what's good, and better what's not working – get it done, as we want it. For the Workers' Party it is not to change the most important thing, but to see if there are any changes that need to be made to improve the protection of children. That's not all that's good, and there's reason to see if there's anything that can be done differently, especially in terms of organisation. But the goal must always be in the best interests of the child. That's why we think this needs to be thoroughly investigated before you change anything. Oslo has had a system in which they have had a complete responsibility for child protection. It has been shown to be successful. There may be a possibility that others may also have professional and capacity assumptions for a similar offer. The working party therefore supports the assessment of a pilot scheme with a transfer of greater responsibilities to municipalities with sufficient competence and capacity. However, for the Workers' Party, it is important to clarify that the country should continue to be responsible for the specialised services, such as enhanced foster home care and supervision and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1485	Some of us remember well the storm in the year 2000 around the setting of the then Task Distribution Committee. It was a bit like now, a lot of control for nothing. In principle, most agreed: user considerations, local self-government and national targets. But as soon as it became concrete, the tough debates came. A summary of that round was a clear feedback from most people: but you will never get my task! It could happen again. Most of it needs further investigation. What is currently being considered as transferred are regulatory arrangements. There may be a rapid impact on vulnerable users, and there is hardly any sense of increasing the room for action locally. Assistive materials and travel by work and education are typical examples. Whether the devices have already been spoken by the users. The investigation can be saved. 6,700 signatures were collected in a short time from a group that is usually difficult to mobilise, and the message is clear: users will have a complete system, anchored in the rights of the people, regardless of where you live. Heavy professional environments, such as the Norwegian Handicap Association, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, the Ergotherape Association and the Physiotherapeutic Association, more professional than the expert committee itself, support users. The working party has chosen to listen to those who wear the shoe and proposes that no changes be made to the responsibilities of the aids. In the case of travel by work and education, the entire Committee has been clear that responsibility must remain State-owned. The Committee says that the system is best suited to the Nav portfolio of labour-oriented measures, and that is an important argument. People on the way to and from work or education often cross both local and county boundaries, and a system where rules can vary from state to state is bad enough to deal with. We already know that when it comes to the scheme – or maybe we should say the county municipal schemes of organised transport for people with disabilities, i.e. the TT system. A few years ago, we were presented with the strangest examples of what a fragmented system could lead to from an abrupt stop and waiting for a journey that, for most others, was relatively uncomplicated. The fact that, on a daily basis, to and from work or school, you have to deal with variations in the rules from municipality to municipality does not seem to be a good idea. The Committee has also said that it does not think, and that is positive. A final point: the years of rather unworthy debate on the responsibility for so-called resource-intensive users may indicate that neither municipalities would think it would be a good idea to be held responsible for either the means or the travel of work and education. So most of the talk is that they should get out, but most importantly, especially from a user's point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1501	The municipalities that will decide on their own future in 2016 will not know what tasks to do. ‘This is highly critical and makes the government’s timetable for the municipal reform irresponsible’, says a joint remark from the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV. It's pointed out, it goes to the core, and I haven't met anyone – regardless of the batch color – who doesn't agree with it. Everyone agrees that the problems have to be resolved before deciding what to do. Governments say that the purpose of the reform is better services for citizens. No experience, no research shows that the size of the municipality is crucial for whether it is good or bad services. On the contrary, good services for citizens depend on management, not least political management. The experience of the control committee is that closeness gives transparency and high participation in public work, and – most importantly – proximity gives a dynamic change in the whole organisation, because one stands so close that one sees what needs to be done, and when the council says that inter-municipal solutions are ‘set up in the management of services’, there is a strong opinion that is not really rooted – not least in many Right-Handed, large municipalities, the scope of inter-communal services is as great as in the small ones. State Council Sanner said that what was the point here was to go from centralization to decentralization and the spread of power. It's a statement that only supports the NHO. It is very strange whether it should be true, when there is no voluntary organisation in Norway other than the NHO that supports it. Right Sanner is one of the leading right-wing councils of the Right-wing government. They know it's untrue, but they have their political education in the Young Right, where there is a long tradition of such language use — to say that one goes from centralisation to decentralization. It doesn't give you any trust. It creates big problems for good management, because what's being said, and what's happening, are two different things. The municipalities have power today. You have professionals, you have budgets, you have legislative powers. The centralisation of this power — professionals, budgets and legislation — is, of course, giving rise to the next round of centralisation of activity. That's the logic. It is the purpose of the government parties, a purpose that they do not dare to present. And that's the dramatic thing, that one doesn't dare to say that as it is. Therefore, it is my wish to the Right that they say to those who stand as rapporteur's candidates, because now at least we have to make it clear: are you in favour of the municipality? Are you in favour of a referendum? It's important. And then I invite the Council of State to open duel in Buskerud.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1516	The fight for districts is, in fact, the fight for youth. With the best school in the country, Sogn and Fjordane train young people with ambitions. The problem is we're educating them away from the state, and they're not coming back. The county has a population development and an age mandate that is mildly challenging. The word 'robust' and the focus on a wide range of disciplines can be echoed, or one can choose to take on the fact that they are looking for robust professional environments that provide the professional challenges. Some people want to live rurally, some want to live urbanly, but together they have to live in places with access to a labour market where they are not overqualified, where they have challenges and opportunities to grow – and to change jobs without having to move. A report prepared by the Medical Association shows that only 7 pst. Newly diagnosed nurses have a health care home as their first choice when they are looking for a job. This will give Norway a major shortage of care workers in a few years' time, and clearly shows the need for a municipal reform where several tasks are moved down to the municipalities. Together with the rapid development of welfare technology, municipalities rely on highly skilled nurses who are motivated to work in a hospital. It is pointed out that small municipalities have problems recruiting nurses, while larger municipalities with a wider professional environment can make it more attractive to work at a hospital for both new and experienced nurses. The talk from the Sukepleiarbundet's report is a good argument for giving larger municipalities increased responsibility for the health of well-being, for prevention, care, rehabilitation and care for people with dementia. It's not about merging hospitals, because the service is supposed to be close to the users. There is now a task message that plays a ball to the municipalities and points out how the public sector can develop at local and regional level. The message has been strengthened to a large extent by identifying the ambitions and potentials of a regionalised Norway: the spread of power, the slimming of the County Council, the decentralisation of state tasks and the strong environment of competence in all parts of the country – and a continuing school that does not follow borders but is far more capable of providing the lack of educational opportunities that we need to put the student in the centre. New ideas are needed, including in district policy, and we need a public sector capable of interacting with business, both by being an attractive job and by providing the services needed by business and the rest of civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1529	Never has the Storting been so clear about moving power from the state. Someone chooses to complain that we want to figure it out. I thought that the Workers' Party in particular understood that this also applies to a lot of jobs, and that particular consideration also serves the majority, that there are processes. That instead of pointing at it and grumbling at it and saying that we should have had more research on dental health, which has been a community service before, I think that's strange. Because there's no doubt about the direction of what we're adopting today, it's moving power closer to the citizen. It's a basic principle for the Left. The majority get criticism for just that with dental health, and to me it seems that the Workers' Party has now become a reform brake in this. Last year they were much more eager. So that's maybe the idea of the municipal election and the idea of being against it that's the most crucial thing, because it might seem that we've got a party that is in many ways even more reversible than the central party in this case. But I don't intend to spend more time on why the Workers' Party wants to be the most restrictive of the restrictive – and regardless of it trying to talk down on the regional level. Because I think the Central Party in the last period tried to move tasks from state to elected level, which turned out to be impossible when the then regional reform was presented. But I'm in any case very pleased that it can now look like there's a broad consensus about moving as much power as possible from the state level and the other state level to the elected level. Someone asked me if it was something I was not satisfied with in connection with this message and what we have received. Yes, in many ways this covers most of what we initially had as a primary point of view, but I would like to – and I admit it – have had the rest of it on the note to move local hospitals to the regions and leave the university hospitals in the state. Unfortunately, not so many people attended that remark. But it may have to mature over time. I believe that the regional level has the opportunity to take over the kind of power that exists and has been in relation to the local hospitals, by making the necessary split. For just through the grips we are doing today, with a clear, clear signal of shifting power downwards, this is also a local democratic principle, in which we move power from state to the elected level. It is an essential element of the whole reform and completes in many ways what we have from the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1540	I want to talk a little bit about high school. It happens that when there's a policy going on, the reason is, and I'm sorry, President, but here it seems like it's more about doing away with high school from the county, rather than that there's going to be quality for everyone in education. It says that one of the arguments that large municipalities can take over the responsibility for higher education is that it can lead to smaller drop-outs. ‘Local responsibility can facilitate better interaction between schools, educators and managers’, it says. This ‘will be able to motivate early intervention’ and thus counteract drop-out. I'll put a big question mark on that. It is already demanding for the county councils to distribute the education offer so that all students are able to meet their needs and education programmes, at least in the vicinity of where they live, and at least if they choose anything other than the large and broad education programmes. Merging of municipalities does not move the geography. Regardless of the size of a municipality, it will be extremely difficult for a municipality to offer students a wide range of services that today’s organisation maintains. Fewer students will be satisfied with their first and second wishes, which we know affects the motivation to complete the training. Further training is a complex management area. The proposal will reinforce this. It is not just educators and leaders who will cooperate, as it says in the vote. If the work is transferred to the municipalities, each municipality must build up its own apparatus. So there's going to be more bureaucracy, and not less, no matter what the government has to believe. The new municipalities must cooperate with training students, with training offices, with the respective counties close to the municipality, with the business community, etc., etc. There's a bold experiment government and the majority here add up to. Fragmentation of the responsibility for higher education can easily end with a poorer offer for the majority of students. It's easy to predict the great ‘advance-death' in District Norway if we open a transfer to the municipalities. The claim of more efficiency is unfounded and highly doubtful. Where is the efficiency gain and increased quality of Restkommune-Norway, which is still to send young people to county schools? Where's the student's prize? And which students will win this experiment? How does the Minister of Local Affairs intend to ensure a wide and good offer for all students in the country? The proposal that has been promoted contributes to several crucial issues to which poor answers have been given. Dimensionation requires close cooperation with business and working life, and we believe that this is best achieved through a regional approach. It's no bigger in this country than we have to be able to see all the industries in context over slightly larger geographical areas, but so that we ensure recruitment and development in both the individual and the individual sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1553	The municipal reform has been the government's great reform of prestige. Jan Tore Sanner traveled the country and the beach preaching the enormous tasks that would be accomplished with this merger reform. He has started all the country's statesmen to be political spokespersons for this reform around the country's municipalities – and there are no limits to which things should be solved. At the beginning of the debate, it was said that the services are so poor, and since the services in small municipalities are so poor, for the sake of those living in the small municipalities, we have to merge the municipalities. But the big challenge with that claim is that once we've looked at the government population survey, people are most satisfied with the services in small municipalities. Especially in the case of care and care, which is the heaviest tasks of municipalities, as over 50 pst. of the budget, it is consistently the biggest challenge in the major municipalities. Then it's amazing that the answer is municipal aggregation, when the challenges are greatest in this city we're in now. So there was child protection: child protection is for the vulnerable children, and that is why we need to carry out a huge community reform. There too the government knows that this claim is wrong. KS and Deloitte have carried out a broad assessment of the country's child protection, and it has shown that there is no consistent relationship between the quality of child protection and the size of the municipality, but what it also says is that the profile of child protection in small municipalities is slightly better than in the largest municipalities. Nevertheless, the government chooses to use what they call ‘the vulnerable children’ as a reason for local government reform, even if they have no professional evidence for that claim. Then intermunicipal cooperation, IKS, and yes, it's so cruel that there's so much intermunicipal cooperation, and that's why we have to have a municipal reform. So the government, also there, knows that there is most intermunicipal cooperation between large municipalities and not between small municipalities. However, it has been used as a justification, and then it's amazing when you read today's attitude, that what you used to use as a reason for a municipal merger, namely that IKS is a big problem, is now open to law enforcement for small municipalities. It's an incredible inconsistency, but what's been the challenge of this reform is that no matter what problem the government has seen, the answer is the same: community merger. But what question to solve has changed all along. Fourteen days ago, the government presented its soil protection reform — without action. There were two measures that were concrete in that reform: one was to award a soil protection prize, and then there was a municipal merger. And that is the major problem of this reform, that the conclusion has been set first, and then you have not understood what task to solve. And now when you say that you need community mergers because of a lot of tasks, it's amazing that today we're not going to transfer some big and important tasks to the municipalities, just a bunch of small measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1564	Lundtigen spoke of «nytale». Yeah, then you should listen, he's not exactly a novice in the area. But let's leave it. With this proposal, the municipalities get more power, they get more influence. Local democracy is being strengthened. Several decisions are to be taken closer to people who live with the consequences of the decisions. Strengthening local democracy is strengthening democracy. The ‘task message’ may not be a word that makes the chest’s horn music begin to play, but it should be. The Labour Party's support lies with us, this assembly, alone and alone, especially with regard to the belief in making decisions on behalf of the inhabitants of Oslo and Akershus. You can see that on page 56 of the setting. The inhabitants of Oslo and Akershus are to be subjected to a large-scale coercion merger, while it is believed that the rest of the country is capable of making the decision on its own. If this total inconsistency in the question of aggregation you have to ask yourself, where does it come from? As a representative of Oslo, I agree that there is something special about this city – it is very beautiful, it is charming, and there are nice people living here. But it also has some particular challenges, but the particular challenges are not due to the fact that decisions are worse in Oslo than they are elsewhere in the country. And if you look at the comment on the Workers' Party on page 56 of the election, this will be done in cooperation with the County. So you have to jump over local politicians, jump over rapporteurs, jump over municipal government representatives, jump over the city council. What in all days does Raymond Johansen think about this? Not that he's ever going to sit in the City Council, but he'll be skipped, too, as a private municipal board member. I wonder what he likes. Otherwise, I am glad that the government and the cooperation parties see that Oslo has special issues as the largest city and capital. It's something new. Now cities will be able to see community and urban development in context, facilitating the development of collective provision in the context of population development. It is a recognition of the need to have the capacity to handle growth. It also reminds me of the seven out of eight red-green years when Oslo did not get a payoff for the reward scheme for public transport, even if a strong effort was made. Such things are over now. Now it's town and country hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1577	I think there are many of us who can sign that we have love for this city, but I think it would have been wise for the representative Heggelund to have taken a little walk around the country and heard what people had said about this so-called mission message. He had received another message if he had talked to the trade unions about what they think about this fragmentation and the unjustified move that the government is proposing. What upsets me most is what the government proposes – and I now understand that the Council of State does not understand at all – namely that work is work and not a service. The 1993 responsibilities reform stated that the right to work should also be granted to those with reduced development, that it is the obligation of the State to ensure that it can do so. What the government is doing now is pure discrimination. Taking a population group, moving it out of state labour market policy, you say, not for you. This is serious. And it's not like the municipality of Norway has asked for this. I am now sitting here with a message from the seven municipalities in the Glamdal region, three of which are run by the Right. They say that it would be very unfortunate if you transferred this to the municipalities, and they insist that the scheme be continued as it is today. They don't want it. The municipalities don't want it, the users don't want it, and I don't even think the NHO, who organizes these companies, wants it. It's just the government parties that want it, and you don't see that this is discrimination against one of the groups you say you should take into account. The responsibilities reform was just about these people being moved out of the workplace and into decent workplaces. And now they say no, the municipalities can choose. So one has to give away a group of people; because they need a lot of help and maybe different types of offer from a municipality, then the municipality has to decide all over you, and so they have to be able to choose away work for a group of people. That's SV raging against! Then there are very different signals here from the Left and Christian People's Party and from the government parties. The Left and Christian People's Party emphasises that it should be investigated, the government parties say it should be carried out. The Test Act is not to be used, says Left, while the representative Kapur releases the cats from the bag – to put it that way – and says that cities are to be held responsible for high school, as is the case. With one hand they give you problems, and with the other hand they take. Finally, in the case of schools, does the majority really believe that the local government is bluffing in giving good school offerings to schoolchildren because they are not responsible for high school? It is the greatest mistrust of municipal politicians I have heard here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1592	I'm glad I belong to a majority where one hears the difference between the parties, and I think we're going to be able to get a good cooperation on. We in the Christian People's Party have been accused of both party speeches and honorary words about the government, but I think it's a little better than the hack-in-plate we've heard from some of the other parties for a while now. That is why I am so pleased with the programme and comments of the Labour Party. It may sound strange, but the Workers' Party has considerable management experience with our country. When the Council of State Sanner today explained why this reform had to be put into action, it was like hearing the Workers' Party earlier and part of their formulations. That is why I understand the dilemma of the Workers' Party, because they have not been given a majority with the help of the SV and the Center Party – at least we have understood that after the debate today. But what I don't understand is that the Workers' Party continues to practice criticism and twice in both debate and media, while they largely agree with the majority. It's a shame if the Workers' Party has to sign up to others to create doubt. In that case, they use the reform instrumentally in their rhetoric, because it seems that rhetoric is different from substance. They enlarge the nuances and signify the results without bringing out all the benefits they themselves have as a goal in their programme. It is a double game that points to the election. If it's about riding two horses, it's transparent. So now we're going for one of the biggest reforms in Norwegian municipal policy since 1837. Then came the presidency laws, the municipal laws. So in 1965 we reduced from 720 to 450 municipalities, almost a half. At least there was no voluntary reform. But nobody sees any reason to go back. Now we've started a significant shift of power, and we've got investigations under way. The red-green parties must understand that there is a democratic way of developing society. We cannot provide completed answers in advance. We've ordered new messages. Then it is regrettable to see that the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and in particular, SV, seem to go backwards into the future. This can be the biggest reform in 50 years, and the accusations of discrimination from SV – that is against better knowledge. The Christian People's Party is pleased with what we have achieved – about generalist municipalities, about secondary schools, about permanent work, about work and education trips, about family protection, volunteer centres, trial scheme for child protection, etc. There is every reason for us to view this as a positive reform for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1614	The whole purpose of the reform is to shift more power down to the municipalities, and also to the future regions. Then it is reassuring to see that what is the Workers' Party's proposal 8 is precisely removing dramatically the power and power that is especially in Oslo, but also in the capital area. Because when the proposal is to merge the county councils and create a region, what has been the success factor in Oslo – that is, the largest municipality in the country, and also the largest county in the country – is that one here has an opportunity to see the municipal and county responsibility in context, and one has managed to solve its tasks. At the end of the 1990s, a NOU was created called ‘Margins of difficulty’. At the time, it was a relevant question to consider how to improve public transport, to improve planning cooperation in the Capital Region. After it was presented, dramatic improvements have been made in the region. Funding for regional public transport has been provided through Oslopackakt3 – which works. An organisation has been set up, in cooperation between Oslo and Akershus, with an ordering unit and a planning unit in Router – which works. Perhaps the best collective system across Europe has been built up in relation to the size of the city. This is something the region really has reason to be proud of – and it works. In addition, since 2009, we have been working on plans in Oslo–Akershus, which is the second reason why administrative changes should be made. This now works well through Oslo and Akershus, and also with the municipalities in Akershus. There's no need to make changes to achieve anything other than what you're already doing. And in high school, you have the best results in the country. For what the Labour Party proposes, it is not just that they should merge this region and thus remove responsibility from Oslo. In addition, they have a proposal, proposal 5, which explicitly states that public transport and secondary education are not to be attributed to municipalities. Together, this will be a proposal that will make it much more difficult to operate this region in a good way. After all, it is not just a matter of being a county and municipality together, it is also a matter of building a well - functioning local democracy in the district committees. So by making a region here, you're going to make another level in the area, with the complications that it gives. The proposal will dramatically weaken local democracy and governance in Oslo and go all the way across the very purpose of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1630	«The government will strengthen local democracy by shifting power and responsibility to the municipalities», says the Government Platform. Today's debate shows that it is far from word to action. Very many local politicians around the country feel that what is now happening is the opposite of strengthening local democracy. An example: fewer municipalities give no more democracy. Going from 11,000 local politicians to 4,000, which in the worst case will be the result, is not to promote local democracy at all. The weakening or closure of county councils gives greater power to state and directorate, as the Right's own head of the KS has so pointed out after this message came. The Directorates are a growing part of the state governance. This government continues to strengthen and continues to establish new directorates. The Directorates have gained ever-increasing power, which is exercised on behalf of the departments to which they are subject, but which is not the subject of the open debate we have on the exercise of powers, from the political leadership of the departments. The main problem, however, is that the Directorates take over local and popular governance by providing strong guidance on how to implement the response. The proposal in the Communication will not help to dampen the image of directorate management of Norway. It is not government governance through directorate, state officials or state enterprises that is being reduced, but it is the elected county council that is being taken up for tasks. Let's take a look at the suggestions given to substantiate this: The specialist health service, which is one of the most important regional policy areas, is to be continued by the State. Enterprise policy through Innovation Norway is proposed to be nationalised, both by throwing out county municipalities as owners and by centralising regional offices. At the same time, regional policy instruments are weakened by a sharp decline in appropriations. Police reform is being implemented through a strong centralisation of the regional level and offices of local authorities, and the role of local authorities in the creation or closure of offices is to be weakened. The tax collection was to be made public, said the government, but here they do not get the Christian People's Party and the Left, if I understand it correctly – finally someone other than us in the opposition who has heard the strong counter-arguments from the local and chemical sectors. My clear impression is that with regard to the major policy areas, where discretion and local balances are at the heart of the decision-making process, the government wants to strengthen central governance. In the case of regular and rights-based tasks, which are largely influenced by political considerations, the government is very open to assigning responsibility to the municipalities. It's regrettable, but even more regrettable is that they transfer responsibility to the municipalities for social arrangements involving a few people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1658	Let me first say that it is good with great commitment and many contributions to this matter. There are several major issues under discussion. One is the question of whether there is a need for community reunification and community reform; the other is how we can strengthen local democracy. I am pleased that there is a large and broad majority in Stortinget who acknowledge that there is a need for community reform. I am also pleased that the citizens' support for the need is increasing. This is what we are looking at in the last population surveys that have been carried out. Rissa and Leksvik have been successfully negotiated – the population surveys are positive, Gran and Lunner have been successfully negotiated – the population surveys are positive, Lwgal 4 is working well and constructively for municipal reform – the last survey from Lindesnes was very positive. I record that the representative Lundteg put a question mark on my claim that local politicians have been put in check because of the extent of inter-municipal cooperation. But that claim is well substantiated. It was the revision in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen that concluded that the local politicians in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen had been put in check because of the large amount of inter-municipal cooperation. When municipalities have 30, 40, 50, 60 – up to 70 intercommunal cooperation, a lot of power and responsibility has been transferred out of the local government hall, out of the democratic ability of local politicians to influence the decisions and have moved into forums that are not so easily controllable. It has also been documented in public reports. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and SV write in their comments that municipalities that have such extensive cooperation should ‘assess whether it would rather be right to merge the municipalities’. I agree. As far as child protection is concerned, I and the representative Schlagsvold Vedum discussed this earlier, and it is clear that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has still not fully read that report. Because in the Deloitte report, this is probably documented. It clearly shows that the smallest municipalities are not able to do this important task satisfactorily. That is why this report shows that the smallest municipalities want more cooperation and greater professional environments. Similarly, it is also clear from many child-restraint leaders that there is a need for wider professional environments in the field of child protection. What is at the heart of the community reform are larger and stronger disciplines that can provide better services to citizens. It's about moving tasks to the municipalities, so that they can get the opportunity to provide their citizens with better services, and we now get a good opportunity to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1671	This has been an exciting debate to follow. I think the hall has been quite clearly divided into two today. They have representatives who want to decentralize, spread power and local self-government, and they have representatives who have spoken for more centralisation and detailed management of the municipalities. Now you'll probably shake your head a little bit, but it's just reading the minutes – there's everything. The representatives of the Red-Greens have repeatedly visited this pulpit today and said clearly about the following: we know best. We know best what's right for your municipality. We know best how to meet your community's challenges. You don't even need your own local politicians – we here at Stortinget know best how to govern your municipality. It is a message to the Municipality of Norway today from the red-green politicians at the Stortinget in this debate. It really doesn't surprise me so much that the Center Party and SV have been on that line today, we've seen that for months. But what surprises me and disappoints me a little is that the party that is the biggest force to use – in this setting today – is the Workers' Party, which, through its proposal on page 56, is adding up to merge Akershus and Oslo with coercion. It's a minimum that they've written, and you'd like to have other parts of the capital area. Then, as I said, we are talking about the edge zone of Buskerud, Vestfold and Østfold – without involving local politicians, rapporteurs, agencies, etc. I am very excited about how the Labour Party politicians from Oslo and Akershus are going to vote on this matter. I know this mission doesn't have thousands of viewers right now, but I think the voters deserve to know what the Labour Party is trying to get through on the Stortinge today – and what the majority of the Stortinge is going to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1684	The contributions of the representative, Karin Andersen, I can fully join in as a member of the Labour and Social Committee. Work is work, and not services, it must be for everyone who needs work. Those who are not so difficult to get into the labour market must be a state responsibility, while those who really need it the most must be left to the municipalities. It shows a priority. There is no one other than the members of the government who are in favour of such a line, nor has a support from Victor Norman – that is significant enough. Anne Tingelstad Wøien said, in the case of high school, that there is a "thirsty experiment" the government adds up to. Yeah, it's a bold experiment. Schools and education, secondary schools and a common education — that is, part of the national construction project. So it's going to be a ship, and here it's going to be a system that fills less of the tradition and the level that we have. As far as child protection is concerned, the most important thing is that people avoid being in possession of child protection. After all, it is those municipalities that have a good overview and come with early — by having a midwife service, a health care care service, kindergarten teachers and teachers in school — that help those who need the protection of society. Child protection is in a dynamic development where what is the Central Party's alternative here is in a good way the responsibility that should lie with the municipalities – more with the county councils and less with the state, because that is what we see working badly. Several have argued here that this is a decentralisation and spread of power reform. Right can say that, because they have some grace in expressing themselves boldly, but that the Left and Christian People's Party should present it the same way in relation to their tradition, is quite strong to me. The representative Tuskedal said it was the most significant shift of power that we've seen in 50 years. Yes, but first it has to be a choice. First, there should be elections, and I expect those parties that believe this is a decentralisation reform to put forward in debate, that their candidates make clear what they are going to vote on, so that people can be informed about what kind of leaders you get if one chooses those candidates. I also expect those candidates to be quite clear that they are in favour of a referendum. It's the Center Party for, a referendum, so it's not the Storting, but people who are going to decide what's going to happen. I hope that will be the attitude, and I also hope that when there are questions about getting representatives in the debate, they say – not all possible excuses for not participating in the debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1695	The representative, Andersen, took up the VTA and the tools. I want to establish what was obviously not perceived, that there is going to be an investigation here. It is also clear from the Committee that this should be for the benefit of users. We're not doing this to make it a worse offer, but definitely a better offer, as more than me from the majority have said. It obviously hasn't reached, so it obviously has to be repeated sometimes. I'm listening to representatives from the Center Party. It's not much new they come with. I'm not going to mention who hasn't finished reading about child protection. But I'm a little surprised, after running municipal politics for almost 20 years, how the Center Party glorifies IKS as a democratic ideal. I think it is alarming that a party that hangs so strongly on the people's regime believes that the IKS cover most of the democratic principles. They don't just look pragmatically at IKS, as some of us meant when it was introduced. No, the Central Party believes that this is a political ideal, that we should have the x number of IKS around the municipalities. The Council of State stated that there were 60 to 70 in the worst. People in the local government don't have an overview, and the population they're going to serve has at least no idea who's sitting there and where there's an opportunity to influence. I cannot, with my best will, realize that this is a political ideal for a party that calls itself a party of people. In recent days, problems of recruitment in smaller municipalities have been identified, both by nurses and caregivers – not because they do not have the money to hire them, but because they are unable to recruit. They can't recruit because it's not considered attractive enough. Then I ask again, isn't this also a problem? Just with the line we are discussing today – with the decentralisation of power – people can be involved and contribute to creating attractiveness in the districts. At least one thing is clear after this debate. I have been asked many times what I personally think about coercion. But after today's debate, it is at least clear to me that the Workers' Party's voluntary line is dead. There can be no doubt about that. They will use force for what has been pointed out earlier in the proposal – forced to merge Oslo and Akershus, without any involvement at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1706	It is such that the task message has received different characteristics and different greetings, as well as today's setting. But it confirms the impression – as mentioned in my first post – that the opposition does not know exactly what foot to stand on. Either the mission message is blamed for being powerless, without content and without meaning – this was nothing then, you say – or you warn against the proposals that lie there and say that these are very serious proposals, we must not do this, and what you are about to implement here is warned against. Or it says on the one hand that individual matters are not sufficiently solved, but on the other hand, when we say that some of these matters should actually be investigated first, criticism that we will investigate first. When the critic hails from both sides at the same time, from the same parties, it tells me that we, who are behind the setting, are well planted in the middle, and that the truth is probably somewhere in the middle. But it's clear that we have a government and a large majority going into the brink of decentralization, more power and authority for the municipalities. Here, in these questions, there is no danger of being overcome by the opposition. There are no initiatives, no own proposals – only criticism of the proposals available. When the power of action and the zeal for strengthened local democracy are so totally absent from the opposition parties, I am also not surprised that they were not able to deliver anything on these questions the years in which they were in government, simply because they probably did not try either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1717	We are now within the fifth hour of praising the possibilities and fantastic effects of structural change, at least from the government parties and from the supporting parties in the Stortinget. What falls slightly heavy on the Oslo representatives here is that this should also apply to Oslo and Akershus, and we have described our proposal to ask the government to unravel a merger and to state that the State should participate in that process, as a threat to democracy in this city. First, I can answer the question about where the idea came from. Well, that's not how we tricked this into the Storting back. We adopted this in our programme at the national meeting in 2013. This we went to the elections, so this is no secret. And it wasn't like that the representative Pedersen from Finnmark or the undersigned representing Nordland sat in a back room and speculated out a "green" to put on Oslo and the capital region heavy futures. No, it was an initiative that came from our trust-elects in Oslo and Akershus. We are open to listen to it too and have then carefully asked the government to investigate what possibilities it offers. I have to be allowed to say that when I hear the description of how wonderfully you have solved all the challenges you face in the capital relating to housing, to public transport and to coordinating land policy with the area around, there are people I have met who describe this in a slightly different way. Now I'm not going to go into all the details of the Oslo policy, but I respect the fact that there's a different opinion than what's made up of representatives from Oslo here today. So the representative Tuskedal has spent a lot of time today talking about the Workers' Party. I must be allowed to say that there have been quite strong characteristics of what are the motives of the Workers' Party, and of the way we front our policies. I don't think it serves the representative to describe us that way. We sat down in negotiations with honest intentions in an attempt to find the widest possible majority, because – as others have pointed out – we recognise that there are many challenges in Municipal Norway, and we are interested in bringing the country forward and solving them. But maybe what's the majority here in the Chamber wasn't that good to listen to a very large minority, and that's why we couldn't find that consensus. I'm sorry. The government councils and other representatives from the government parties have repeatedly said that many municipalities are too small to handle the tasks they have. What municipalities are these?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1730	Which municipalities have the most intercommunal cooperation – are they the big ones, or are they the small ones? All those sitting in the hall here should at least know it: it's the big municipalities that have the most intercommunal cooperation. Then it's amazing to hear the Council of State Sanner and the representative of Skkelstad say that the answer to that is inter-municipal cooperation is community reunification – when we know that today it's like the big municipalities have more than the small ones. This is well documented through Kostra numbers and through the IMDi report. About 8 pst. of the budgets of the municipalities go to inter-municipal cooperation, while the heaviest budget line of the municipalities is care. On top of 50 pst. care is taken of the budget of the municipalities. What municipalities have the biggest challenges in the care sector – are they the big ones, or are they the small ones? It's the big ones that have the biggest challenges. Why don't we discuss the biggest challenges, instead of constantly trying to show the power of action by wanting to merge municipalities that work very well? So you're threatening that if you don't do as we say, we'll use force. Everyone remembers the round we had here in the Storting on referendums, where the Right sent out a central letter trying to describe local referendums as sightings and inaccuracies and had all sorts of arguments as to why you shouldn't listen to people when you're about to implement a democracy reform. It is incomprehensible that the Right does not have any more faith in their own arguments, so that they could dry up letting the people say their opinion through a referendum. So back to child protection. The employees of the Child Protection Agency, from the Joint Organisation, have joined the Local Society Association, which is opposed to the coercive merger of municipalities and which has it as its primary purpose. There is no professional evidence that child protection in small municipalities is much worse than child protection in large municipalities. The Deloitte report, which I have read, says that the profile of child protection in many of the small municipalities is better than in some of the large ones. If child protection is the big challenge, we have to tackle it. So some of the smaller municipalities have solved this by cooperating in the IKS. That makes sense. They see that it is the good solution locally, to find good cooperation solutions, just as – as we see – large municipalities have even more IKS in other areas. What has been one of the main challenges of this reform is that you have not trusted that the locals, those who live in the municipality, know best how to organise their municipality. That is why a person has used such strong words and started such an enormous pressure, both on the part of the government, on the part of the State and on the part of the political parties. Our attitude is, if people want to join forces, do it now, but then the people have to be taken on board. The hidden agenda and the whip and coercion behind this reform should not be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1747	What I believe, for my part, is absolutely indisputable is that the most important result for our governance in the years to come is that this is a major centralisation reform. It will centralize the administrations of the municipalities, and it will centralize the people's power. No matter what the right hand side had to produce from arguments that that's not the case, evolution is going to show that what I'm now saying is true. It will be difficult to change Norway, because the anchoring of the people's power is about what's going on in this room, but it's at least as much and even more about what's going on in our municipalities. One of the important reasons Norway is so well run, across all party divisions, is that it is the people’s power that governs – not other powers. What is behind this reform on the right hand side is, of course, making the people's power weaker. I hear what they say, but the result will be that, because with strong centralization, one will have to leave even more power to the municipal administrations than one has already done. It's gone too far as it has. It will change Norway and the people's power. And just the fact that many fewer will be involved will weaken the influence of the people's power in Norwegian politics. I really understand that the right hand parts, the Right and the Advance Party, represent a line like that, because that's their line. Their aim in politics is to ensure that democracy is not so strong that other forces can come in and rule. It's their history and their tradition, and the discussion we have here today is directly reflected in the historical tradition. But that the Christian People's Party, which is a welfare party, and which will depend on the authority of the people's power in municipalities, states and states in the future to maintain the welfare state and the distribution of society, is involved, I don't understand. And I definitely don't understand it by referring to the establishment and position of the Left in what is called the social liberal ideology. Who is it that is responsible for the authority and position of the individual if not the elected representatives? No one else is going to do that. The bureaucrats are not going to do that. The market isn't going to do that. Disadvantaged popular rule is that those powers get more power. We will be left with that in Norwegian municipalities, unfortunately – not in the first few years, but in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1756	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1759	It's said that one should hear a lot before the ears fall off. I think we have confirmed that here today. When the representative Kapur says that the Central Party will not respect what the local politicians come up with, and that we will not stand up for local democracy, I really have to wonder what he means. I hope he's the only one who hasn't come to realize that the Center Party is the greatest champion of referendums, and that we're for absolute voluntarity. One thing is that he is a ‘loading lady’, but he belongs to a party that has mobilized its entire organisation to prevent referendum because you don’t have faith in what people think. ‘People’s votes often give rise to views, inaccuracies and divisions in the community and may lead to a non-knowledge-based decision’, says the Right Letter to all its local teams. I would say that is not to have faith in the local politicians. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1767	Then the minute has passed. The representative of Geir S. Tskedal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1772	To Andersen and Lundtägen: In the case of tools, the Christian People's Party believes that it should not be stock and management, but dissemination, as before. In the case of permanent job placements, it is the consideration of users, better services and comprehensive services that remain at the centre and for which we are guarantors. To Sivertsen: I notice that when the criticism came against Oslo and Akershus, the ‘investigation’ was the answer that could remedy it. I notice that. In the case of negotiations, the Labour Party was given all opportunities to participate in the meeting. On a question about it earlier today, Helge Pedersen answered defensively: they were not the first to go. Yes, but why did the Workers' Party go? That was my question. To Lundtigen: referendum is a legal political tool if you locally think it is appropriate and quite right. In addition to being the welfare party – I thank for the description from Kolberg – the Christian People's Party has put family protection and volunteering centre in place. I turn it around and make a rhetorical question: how could this reform look like without a Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1787	The representative, Frank J. Jensen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1790	I have to say to the Central Party: the largest cities in Norway are surrounded by many small municipalities, and then it is actually not unnatural that it is the larger municipalities that often have the most intermunicipal cooperation. But the essential thing that the Central Party is not considering is whether it is okay that small municipalities are often forced into inter-municipal cooperation, because they cannot take responsibility for their statutory tasks. It is quite different from choosing voluntary cooperation because sensible solutions are being found. Otherwise, I think I heard that we received a historical lecture on the rule of the people from a party member of the party that was formerly a member of the Communist International. But I didn't think I should mention that. I can basically remember – since we are discussing municipal reform – that the Workers' Party, for its part, was also behind the municipal reform last time, which was not a voluntary reform, but was a reform in which a Commission was set up, as the Workers' Party's representative Helga Pedersen mentioned earlier. So I think I'll get caught up in that kind of lesson. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1801	That's when the time was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1804	A little bit of history. I'm not going back to 1964, but let's at least return a few weeks in time. We in the Workers' Party did what we could to try to reach a broad political consensus, but when the Right and Advance Party got up and went, and we found that we did not agree, it might be a little strange if the Workers' Party remained. We also told the Christian People's Party and the Left that we would like to talk to them, but it was an invitation that was not answered. We stand for what we have in the setting, and then the question about the Christian People's Party and the Left stands for what they have in the setting. I don't think they have black sunshine on it today. This debate has revealed that the right-wing parties will have structural changes. It is justified by the hit lists in 1964 and that the municipal boundaries were laid at the same time. We've heard that before, and we know what the right parties think about structure. But when we start discussing content, it becomes strangely quiet. And that was the content that the mission message and this debate were supposed to be about. We have not received a response to how the dental health improves by moving it to the municipalities. I haven't even heard attempts to argue for it. There is also a great robustness paradox in this debate, because we are part of the boring fact that only the municipalities are growing, they are becoming more robust, and everything is going to get better. But we haven't been told how your dental health gets better by breaking up the professional environments we have today. We have not been given an explanation of how public transport should improve by spreading it to more actors. We have not been told how to improve the provision of secondary education by spreading it to several actors. And at least we haven't been told how to improve primary school content by getting more private schools, and so we're going to spread resources and teachers on even more units than we have today. The right parties have had a lot of chances to explain it, but they haven't used the chances, and that's why it's well explained why we can't go in on these proposals. We have also not received a response to the big paradox that, while talking about the transfer of tasks to the municipalities of the time, we have tried to state the tax collection, we want to remove the obligation to live in the municipalities, we want to state Innovation Norway, we want to really deprive the municipalities of the ability to manage their own municipal structure, and even try to state the care of the elderly. The progress party has actually gone to the elections that there is something you want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1819	The final article of the representative Helga Pedersen shows that the Workers' Party gives itself an opportunity to look ahead and to participate in securing strong Norwegian welfare municipalities. The representative is most concerned with criticising and opposing, not presenting a single alternative. It seems that the Labour Party's line is that everything is good as it is, but that's not the answer to the challenges that Kommune-Norway is facing. Let me also say that Martin Kolberg has a historyless description of the Right Tradition. For what is our tradition in this area, and what makes the Right stand so strong in Municipality-Norway? It's that we want a society that's created and developed from below. We want less detail management from above. More will be created and developed from below. That's why we want to move power and responsibility back to local democracy. That's why we want less state detailing. That is why we are now implementing a community reform. If we look a few years in the future, we'll see that there'll be fewer and fewer people working behind each pensioner. There will be municipalities that have one working activity for each pensioner. We know that Kommune-Norge needs more warm hands and smart heads to solve the big welfare problems. Then we also need stronger professional environments to slow down the centralisation that we have experienced in the last 10–15 years. This reform is to slow down centralisation – slow down a centralisation that we saw under the red-green parties, with more inter-municipal cooperation, with more state detail management. We want to move more power back to local democracy. I will give the representative Battle Violence Vedum right in one thing, and that is that this reform is not just about small municipalities. It's probably so much about the municipalities around the big cities. It's about the municipalities in Akershus. It is about the municipalities around Bergen and around Trondheim and Stavanger. We have to get bigger municipalities here, too, to get better community planning, precisely because the municipal boundaries stand in the way of good solutions around the big cities. We are in a tradition where we want to take care of strong Norwegian welfare municipalities. The alternative to implementing a reform now is to continue the red-green galley, which is about more state detail management. We want to move power and responsibility back to local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1832	I must admit that it was the representative of Kolberg who made me draw for a new post. After all, his history lesson turned Sanner back instead on behalf of the Right. On behalf of the Progress Party, I can say that we do not know each other at all in the time of history – or in the minute of history – to Kolberg that centralisation is the intention of the municipal reform. One of our most important purposes is actually to give municipalities greater autonomy. That's why we say that the statesmen should decide less, that's why Sanner now gives the municipalities a say in most of the things where the red-greens gave the statesmen a say in most of the things. It is precisely because we recognise decentralisation, and that is what this message is about today – that we should decentralize even more power and authority down to the municipalities. So it's not really a question of a centralisation reform, or it's a centralisation will that's at stake. I just have to remind you that even if we succeed with fewer municipalities, you still live where they live, and they're going to have their services done where they live. It's supposed to be a decentralised supply to people. I would take a slightly different tone if I belonged to a party that, in eight years, contributed to the setting down of one children's ball every eight days. Then I would be a little more humble when it comes to talking about centralization than the representative of Kolberg. So to the representative Pedersen, who is talking about that we haven't argued in the debate. I have had several contributions to the debate, including: on dental health – the Council of State said on dental health – and it is clear that municipalities already have large tasks that they can see in context, both health stations and other things, so that article was a good answer to that. Public transport has also been the focus of many people – that one may see the provision of collective services in the context of planning, and that one may then have partnership with the county and thus receive even better services. That's what our purpose is, it's not to make it worse. We have had a good debate on the subject. If you have a good application and can prove that there will be a better offer for both those who are in the municipality and those who are in the municipality, the government may consider saying yes to that attempt. We don't intend to open this up as a rule for everyone, but if it could be tried out some places, it would be very exciting. Otherwise, I thought the representative Jensen from the Right had a very good analysis of the debate. We have had criticisms that the task message is too thin, while we have received criticism that there is too much in her that becomes dramatic for people. Then we have been criticised that we have not done some things, and we have received criticism that we should sort something out afterwards. So we get criticism anyway, and then I think his analysis – that then we have hit quite well – is good. I hope and believe that local politicians will see that the Storting is today concerned with giving them more trust and recognition, so that it will be even more interesting to be local politicians in the future. The most important thing is that it will ensure that the citizens of Norway will receive better services because local politicians are given greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1849	I notice that the representative Battle Violence Vedum does not spend so much time on the great ideal of the Center Party: IKS. It is said that it is the largest municipalities that have this. I think the Council of State well explained that of course it will be extensive there as well. The representative Helga Pedersen takes up the negotiations that we tried to do – I have also said this earlier. There were problems in two areas. One was when we tried to move the Workers' Party, that there was an opportunity to say that there were generalist municipalities that were going to apply. Then it was just that the generalist municipality was to be declared, that there was no exception. In addition, it has been a matter of over time for the Left, even when a representative proposal was adopted last year, the possibility of relocating existing state jobs. There was no possibility lying there, it was just new. That possibility is not good enough for the Left, because if you want both decentralisation and the spread of power in this country, the existing state jobs must also be in place in such a way, in a compromise. It was not possible to do so. I think it was interesting – if I do not agree with the entrance to the representative Kolberg on the description of power – that it is claimed from the Workers' Party that this is one of the most centralistic. I think it's pretty interesting. When you see the history of the Workers' Party from the war until now, there is no party that has so much put the system and the system state ahead, which has centralized so much. I'm more surprised that the Center Party feels comfortable with the history description of the party that's ahead of some, and that's consistent, centralized and thought system over residents. The left's attitude towards this has always been to think that you should be as close as possible to the inhabitants. Folklore is of great importance to us. That's why we believe that the grips you're now taking to bring the very possibility of decentralizing power to the closest possible extent to the citizen, gives a difference in substance and is a quantum leap in relation to what has been in the past. Then someone will claim that some municipalities have to get bigger. Yes, but the people's power will lie down – that's not the number of representatives in a local government, that's what you can actually make decisions about in a local government, which is what's crucial. I thought that the representative of Kolberg too might agree, but I was wrong about that. It is the systems rather than the people's power that are essential to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1862	It was also the representative of Kolberg who made me take the floor, because of the lecture on the power of people that we heard. There are probably no parties that have stood for more centralisation and corporate power than the Workers' Party in Norway. The whole purpose of this reform is to shift power down to the municipalities in order to get stronger municipalities, so that you also get stronger popular governance in the municipalities. It is strange that while argumenting for more popularism in the municipalities, the Workers' Party is actively committed to removing popular government from the strongest municipality, namely Oslo. It is clear that it does not make the matter any better that this has its ground in a national meeting decision. On the contrary, it makes it even more serious, this is really something you have to fight against, because it is something the Labour Party stands for and will stand for over a long time. Questions were asked about it being presented as if things were going so well in Oslo and Akershus. Just like the fields you want to merge to solve, it's actually going well. In public transport, a solution has been found and a system of the absolute best in Europe has been built. In terms of planning, there is also a cooperation that works very well and lays the groundwork for systematic work in the future. Internally in this municipality, local democracy has been built through the city councils with a closeness to the individual citizen who works in everyday life and who works to gain overall governance in the city. There's really nothing to say that there's something you should be able to do better by forcing the capital region to merge. Here you have a strong municipality with strongly anchored local democracy in city districts and city councils, and a good cooperation with Akershus in the main regional fields. This is what should be continued. Then we will jointly build up under this reform, which strengthens the power of the municipalities and can build a strong local democracy around Norwegian municipalities, also elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1873	It was the representative Tuskedal of the Christian People's Party who said that we should see how it could be if the Christian People's Party did not enter into the discussion about the reform together with the government parties. He's probably right about that, but it tells me a lot about what kind of coalition it is. It should frighten Tuskedal quite a lot if he has the view that we have a government that wants a policy that he to the degrees indicates that he will take a distance from, but which he nevertheless, in the underlying way, supports. It's a cross of thought that Tuskedal and the Christian People's Party should take with them, and as it's worth noting when Tuskedal says what he himself says. Then the representative Helga Pedersen has responded to it with regard to the relationship with the negotiations. It is clear that it could look quite different if the Left and Christian People's Party had chosen the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV as partners in this picture, but they have not. They have to do this in a good way, because that's what's going on here in the hall later today – unfortunately. So to the claim that I'm historyless. I've heard it quite many times from the right – at least every time I'm up and pointing out some things that have happened in Norwegian society in modern times – this with centralization, that the Workers' Party has been in charge of the big centralization. It is a strange argument when Norway is the country across Europe that has managed to maintain a food, transport and population structure throughout the country. I think that is a collective honour for this assembly, but the Workers' Party has, through its social democratic thinking, been at the forefront of it and laid the foundation for it. So saying that we're the big centralization party, that's what's historyless, if you're going to use that expression first. Then I also have to bring with me the representative Tuskedal said about what is going on with the recruitment. – No, it was not Tuskedal, it was one of the other representatives who said the recruitment would fail. Yeah, how do you think it'll be in the future, when centralization gets bigger? Does anyone think it'll solve the recruitment challenges in what's called, with a line below, District Norway? Of course it won't. It will strengthen the urbanisation of the population and make it even more difficult to maintain the settlement in the districts, because it is the municipalities that are the engine of the housing pattern. Finally, if I may say so, it was the representatives of the Left who complained so strongly about our attacks on Oslo and Akershus. Yes, I hear that, but I want to say: it should be right for the government, because it is those who stand for the strong centralisation of this whole reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1887	Now we're not at the fifth hour any longer, now we're at the sixth hour, and I'm recording that the further out in this debate we're coming, the worse the case is on the government and the supporting parties. They think it's annoying, and I understand that. So once we get this far in the discussion, the attacks on the Workers' Party – not primarily on the issue and the proposals we have made here today, no, there are opinions about who said what three years ago and six years ago and eight years ago. Then comes the criticism, and it comes on that basis. It suggests that the majority in this room in this case is ill at it. Then there are claims that the Workers' Party knows best. That's what the representative Kapur says. Well, it can be discussed, but then at least the party doesn't know right any things. At least they have not wanted to listen to all the warnings – which came at hearings and in meetings that I know different organisations have had with all the parties in this regard with VTA companies, aids, dental health, high school, etc. – that what is in the proposals is not a good idea. It is the case that this message has not been better considered during the day. It does not show the way forward, and that was what was meant by the message: that now the municipalities were to be told clearly what tasks they were going to have, and then they could arrange their neighboring talk and discussion about new municipal borders after that. Local government politicians are not helped by the government and the majority parties – on the contrary. I will end by saying something to the representative Tuskedal of the Christian People's Party, who believes that the Workers' Party rides two horses and tries to hide its policy. It's a dry claim, and I think the representative Tuskedal and the Christian People's Party could be more concerned with their own horse than anyone else's. Then he can be invited to vote for the proposals that the Workers' Party, together with others, has now promoted. But he can't, unfortunately, because here the Christian People's Party has sold itself to the government for better knowledge. In this way, the international football association FIFA and the Christian People's Party will soon not be very different, it's just the price.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1898	The representative Mudasar Kapur has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1901	It was the representative of Kolberg's lecture on history that made me take the floor. It reminded me of a conversation I had with a gentleman who had very strong opinions. He presented them as facts, and when I asked where he had them from, he constantly said that this he had read in a history book. I asked who had written that book. Yeah, I wrote it myself, he said. It reminds me a little bit of the history lecture we got about Right from Kolberg. I think it's going to be extra exciting to see the same representative who held the history lecture, then the vote for the coercion of Oslo and Akershus. So to the representative Sivertsen, who could proudly tell us that this is forcing Oslo and Akershus to join forces. But then he forgot to add a confession: and that choice we lost. Oslo and Akershus’ citizens would not have that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1908	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1911	I heard something very wonderful at the end of the debate here from the Right and the Advance Party. The reasoning was that if we get criticism from everyone, we're doing something right. This has been said by both the Right and the Advance Party. Here's a little hint: if you get criticism from everyone, it's a good idea to think about it. It's a general, good delivery gel, because it could be that the critics have a point – and that's particularly good in a democracy. And then there are so many wonderful claims – among others. it was said that the recruitment of personnel is so incredibly poor in small municipalities. But what we know is that the proportion of skilled people in care and care is higher in small than in large municipalities. It's the heaviest task that municipalities do, and the proportion is higher there than in the big, but nevertheless one claims that it's a big challenge. But what happens if you centralize the municipalities? Of course, services will also be centralised, and there will be no better skills in care and care in Engerdal even if it is managed by Elverum. But then the claim of the representative Tuskedal is wrong. He has no evidence to say that there is a worse recruitment in small municipalities than in large ones, because that is the opposite – just read the Fafos report.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1920	The representative Sivertsen says that the proposal to coerce Oslo and Akershus is not secret. No, we know that, it says in all its beauty – sorry, in the position, President – so everybody can see it. Then he says it's in the program of the Workers' Party, and that it does it after the recording from the Oslo Workers' Party. It's very interesting, and it's going to be relevant in the municipal election campaign we're now going into. The working party has always struggled in the capital to tell a story about this city in which the inhabitants here have known each other. Last time it was thought that it was «the divided city». There were no Oslo people – or at least far from a majority – who recognized themselves in. And now you're going to talk about Oslo as the city that is not enough – big enough – by itself, and where your own politicians are not able to make decisions. The representative Kolberg has the habit of being more concerned with Right History than with the history of his own party. I get that – I get that very well. In Right's history, there's a struggle to spread power, there's a fight against guardianship, there's a fight against centralization, against central government. It's the Right Story. That's what the Right People have been standing up for all along. Trying to tell something else when you have a party that has consistently worked against the Foresight and Centralization of the Workers' Party is an exciting story, but it has nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1929	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1932	Intermunicipal cooperation is not ideal for the Centre Party, but it is a practical supplement. The representative Husband has to lay it on his heart. It has been documented in the 2013/8 IRIS report that the largest municipalities, with more than 20 000 inhabitants, have 15 intermunicipal cooperation, while other municipalities have 10–11 intermunicipal cooperation. We're going to stick a little bit to the actual thing. This is a centralisation reform, and I am particularly pleased with the introduction to Martin Kolberg. For Martin Kolberg, centralizing professionals, centralizing budgets, centralizing power by law, is a matter of fact. There'll be a centralization in the next round of activity. It's the Right Line, but it hasn't been the line of the Christian People's Party and the Left before. That's the challenge in this case. When they are also unclear about coercion and referenda, there is a need for further public information and debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1939	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1942	It's not the size that matters. The government provides the wrong answers to future challenges. It's not centralization. It is not for the State to discharge its responsibilities for important services to disadvantaged people. It's not privatisation. And there are no major differences. That's what the government is doing, and that unfortunately the Christian People's Party and the Left are now in. To the left: that is not the argument in my mind to weaken permanently planned work or to access tools. It's with the government partners. It's important. The right-hand side obviously knows best. They turn the deaf ear to the users – to the local politicians, who say no to this, to the expert communities, who say no to this, and to the Right and Advance Party rapporteurs, who write to us and say: Listen to us out in reality! They don't listen to that. They choose to listen to their sails. The change is probably the greatest over the Christian People's Party, which could have chosen a different side, had the effect of what they want, and even of a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1953	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1957	I take the floor to comment on the anxiety that shines out of the Oslo and Akershus representatives. In many contexts, there are specific reasons for looking specifically at the capital area. That is why, on the initiative of Oslo Arbeiderparti and Akershus Arbeiderparti, we have asked for a separate investigation on a specific regionally elected level in the capital area. The goal is to be honest. It is to merge Oslo County Municipality and Akershu County Municipality, but we also think here, as in other counties, that it must end with that, of course it must have the support of a majority in Oslo City Council and a majority in Akershu County. Our goal in front of the autumn's elections is, of course, to get a majority in both places.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1962	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1965	The representative Heggelund is already running the municipal election campaign and finds joy in many arguments here. He has to take that with him. I have to be allowed to say that I am a bit over the representative of Elvesuen, who is going to claim that there is nothing you can do better by seeing Oslo in connection with the areas around. That's a pretty fresh statement, and maybe it's like those who claim that Oslo is self-sufficient have a point. But we have had a big centralisation debate here, and the Council of State said earlier in the debate that he would not change Norway. Well, but the government is changing Norway, and it's a little worrying if it doesn't change Norway in a way it wants to do. Because we don't just have a municipal structure debate going on, on a municipal reform, we have a debate on the structure of the university and higher education sectors, we have a police reform, we have a hospital debate going on, and in the field of transport, there are major structural reforms. The sum of all these reforms – there are opportunities for centralisation by all, and the consequences are unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1974	After eight years of reform-drying, there is a need for reform. Society is changing, and the public sector also needs to change. The purpose of the reforms we are implementing is to provide people with good services where they live. We address the challenges facing Norwegian society in the future, and therefore the necessary reforms are being carried out. If we look at the experience from the municipal mergers that have been carried out, I would like to highlight three: one is that it reduces the risk of instability; the other is that a negative population trend has been reversed in a more positive direction, and the third is that a decentralised service offer has been maintained and ensured. It is also important for the cooperation parties in the future – that we should ensure the Norwegian, or Nordic, strong welfare municipality, where people get good services where they live. But to do that, we also need stronger professional environments in several areas. Several refer to the IRIS report on inter-municipal cooperation. Yes, it is true that the large municipalities have a lot of intercommunal cooperation within, among other things. technical services, while the smallest municipalities have the most cooperation in the welfare field. And it's perhaps in the welfare area it's most important that decisions are taken in the municipality, by local politicians. Larger municipalities can reduce the scope and need for inter-municipal cooperation. This means that more decisions are taken in and by local democracy, by local politicians to find the right solutions. Finally, although the debate has now gone from dealing with the challenges in the smallest municipalities to the challenges in the metropolitan region, I also see that it is a broad recognition of the need for municipal reform through the vote. Through the task message, the government has been given a good basis to continue working with new tasks and more responsibility to the municipalities. We also have a clear task in terms of the regional level, following the agreement we have made with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we will now start looking at how to strengthen the regional level with new tasks that can in particular underpin the social development role of the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1985	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has spoken twice before, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1988	The reason why I take up the Workers' Party's proposal to merge Oslo and Akershus is that the background to such a proposal must be that they want to do something with a regional level, which they want to fill with tasks. It must be about public transport and regional planning – precisely the two areas with which Oslo and Akershus have succeeded, and where they have good cooperation. What's even more serious about that merger is that you want to significantly weaken the scope of action in Oslo. The fact that you are a municipality with county responsibility means that you have both a responsibility and a budgetary power that allows you to take initiative and run the city in a better way than if you get another elected level. And then it will be with and weaken the district committees, which are an important part of local democracy and an important part of the governance of Oslo, to add another level up. [[The President clubs.]] And Helga Pedersen made a good contribution to keeping the Workers' Party away from the city board from the fall as well. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1995	It's too late!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e1998	After a long debate, I'm not going up that much more. Some of the key in this, at least from my point of view, is that when a chat about municipalities, it's about competence, the provision of services to the inhabitants, and not least the decentralization of power. Now it's like this, and it's the Council of States right in, that although there's a little bit different input into the document we're going to vote on today, it's a recognition that this is a necessity. There is a broad consensus, with slightly different inputs, that one will fill the regional level with content. We'll get that message next year. What is perhaps more alarming is that some in the debate have doubts as to whether the local elected level is able to take on the tasks that have been pointed out, even though more people would like to have more. Most of the issues have been highlighted through the debate, and I think that is good. I think it has been a good debate, and I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2013	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2027	In this case, the Committee points out that the Ministry proposes new rules in the Housing Aid Act on the collection and use of data for the examination of housing aid applications without the consent of the applicant. New rules on subsequent controls are also proposed. This is an attitude promoted by a unanimous committee, but I still want to link a few reflections to the matter on behalf of the committee. Housing support is an important welfare scheme, and it is particularly important that we take into account that it preserves those who would like to have a permanently impaired capacity to enter the housing market. That's why it's important that this kind of system is not abused, and that we make sure that those who need the most help get it. Having said that, the Committee would also like to stress that the privacy of the individual is of high value. Therefore, good practice and quality assurance are important, so that personal data are not misused or compromised. It has been important for the Committee to underline. At the same time, we are pleased that the Ministry itself points to the same importance and states in its proposal that the public should be able to trust that their personal data are processed in a safe and sound manner in the context of processing and back-testing, and that is a good thing for the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2040	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2054	Like the previous speakers, I too, as the rapporteur, can explain a unanimous committee position. Nevertheless, I think that some reflections on the electoral system are in place when a case passes the Stortinget, simply because, although there are questions of a very technical nature in this case, we are dangerously near the machinery of democracy, and we are therefore not allowing such a case to pass without looking carefully at it, and therefore this post as well. The proposals in this case relate to a somewhat better responsibilities and also to reinforcements of the preparation, implementation and counting of votes on the election date or in the election process. As mentioned above, the measures are of a technical nature and, at the same time, the Committee notes with satisfaction that the Ministry mentions the importance of not changing the rules too often, as there may be a risk of making changes. The voters may have waited for the practical aspects of the vote. Our election workers out in the polls have been tricked over the years, and changing the rules will also in itself include a risk because people trust what they've learned, what they've been able to do from before, and are not aware of the changes. Therefore, it should be aware that the changes themselves contain a low level of risk, and therefore this should not happen too often. The general confidence in the electoral process rests on the lowest possible occurrence of errors, and an ever-increasing willingness to improve the systems in the light of practical experience when necessary, we must also follow up. The Committee supports the Ministry's emphasis on the absence of systemic and regulatory changes without good reasons, as has been said. The Ministry refers to the external evaluation – completed in January 2015 by the Oslo Economics Analysis and Advice Agency – of the 2013 Grand Prix and the special emphasis on the problem area of late-received pre-selections. There are, as you might suspect, votes that arrive at the election after the meeting book is closed. They are thus not recorded in the election settlement and will not be included in statistics at a later date. It is in the nature of the case that the number of votes received late will be uncertain, and the extent has also been estimated by the use of surveys. The figures then reported are unfortunately increasing and, in the Committee's view, give cause for concern. The Committee also took note of the review of the Internet vote trial, which was held in 12 municipalities in the 2013 Grand Prix. The evaluation carried out by the Institute for Social Research has been published at www.regovernmentningen.no under the Internet Selection Report – What do and do the voters mean? – for those who want to go in and look at it. It's not uplifting to the optimists who thought that Internet voting would be the future. In this context, the Committee has taken note of the main conclusion that it is not possible to ensure a sufficiently secure environment for secret voting over the network, precisely because it is not controlled, and no one wants a society that controls voting conditions in the thousands of homes. So the Committee assumes that, as a general alternative to pre-voting and attendance at election, the Internet polling is currently not feasible and takes note of the department's assessment. On the other hand, the outcome of the testing of electronic check-ups in the official population and the simplified procedure for the receipt of ballots are satisfactory. The solution means that the voters are checked in the crew according to a common electronic rating. This opens up to the practical innovation that the voters belonging to another constituency in the municipality can be checked in the voting room that is most convenient for the voters to visit, without having to go through the procedure that was before; add the ballot box to a ballot box envelope and then a envelope with the election card. So now the voter will be able to put his voice in the polls and thus convince himself that it has arrived. This simplification also eliminates the risk of routine transmission failures and, mutatis mutandis, ensures full anonymity as to the lot to which the vote has been cast. The Committee considers this to be an important improvement to the procedures for the vote itself and looks forward to the outcome of further tests, which are mentioned, before these test schemes are fully implemented. The OSCE, which is the European Cooperation Organisation which also conducts election observations in the different countries of Europe, also had its routine review of our choice of choice, and they had some, more detailed recommendations. The report is unequivocally in favour of the Norwegian implementation of elections, but of more fundamental importance was the recommendation of the authorities to assess whether the authorities dealing with complaints from individuals are sufficiently independent. The Committee understands this view and looks forward to the Ministry's assessments of this area. The Committee supports the unanimity of the regulatory extension resulting from the assumption by the State of responsibility for the sending and use of electoral cards, which may oblige municipalities to provide relevant information in this respect. As regards measures to reduce the risk of pre-selection losses in transit, the Committee would also agree with the Ministry's assessment that neither the last pre-voting day before the ordinary election nor the deadline for receipt of such votes should be changed, precisely for the reasons I mentioned earlier. On the other hand, the Committee supports the measures involving more continuous transmissions up to the end of the deadline and the use of fast delivery services as a complement to A-post is a nearby option.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2075	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2089	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2096	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation and for a good treatment of both the legislative proposal and the vote. As usual, the committee has worked well together. Our society is becoming increasingly digitized. It challenges us as individuals in how we use both new tools and new tools, not least in order to share and provide us with information. Not many years have passed since both the Internet and e-mail were unknown concepts. It's now part of our everyday life, and most of us can't imagine being it apart. The digitisation represents a desired development. It is our task to facilitate the use of the new tools by both citizens and businesses. Digitalisation helps to make society simpler and to give us, as an individual, both new and better ways of communicating and providing information. Now we can read newspapers around the clock on the PC or on the tablet. We can shop online. Where it took at least 24 hours before to send a letter, it was done in seconds by electronic mail. It is in this reality that we must also see the need for a new postal law. When the amount of addressed letter has been reduced by approx. 50 pst. Since 2000, it says something about social development. Fewer and fewer of us send letters, but at the same time we communicate more than ever electronically. The fact that we no longer receive a lot of letters in the mailbox is not a problem, but rather a consequence that we have got other ways of communicating. Then it's a little curious that most of the consultation recordings of this law actually came by e-mail. When the amount of letters is drastically reduced, it will be increasingly expensive to maintain the same number of days for carrying mail. Today I get mail six days a week. In the new Postal Act, it is proposed to reduce this to five days, by cutting the amount of mail on Saturdays. I don't think so many people will miss getting bills on Saturday. If we look at the statistics, the volume of letters on Saturday represents approx. 25 pst. the volume of a normal working day. The Community saves approx. 400 million. kr on such a conversion – money that we can spend on other and more societal purposes. What about the Saturday newspaper – there are many who ask – when the Post ends the Saturday transport? It's actually like today that a large part of the papers are distributed by people other than the Post. Locally, there are often newspapers in their own hands. Nationally, there are several companies that can offer the distribution of newspapers and that do so today. The letter of consultation from the Department specifically asked for input into this topic, just to get feedback on the consequences of a change in mail delivery, and how we can ensure that everyone will get their paper on Saturday. Although most people get the paper through their own newspapers, it is about. 15 pst. by subscribers living in such a way that Posten Norway is the only distributor. The Committee has been clear that everyone should have access to newspapers on Saturday. It will therefore be necessary to make an agreement with the Post Norway for the distribution of newspapers in these parts of the country. Such distribution is estimated to cost between 50 and 120 million. kr., depending on the solution chosen. What the overall logistics system will look like in the future, I don't think it should be up to the Storting to decide. I don't think we're sitting on that competence. But I am convinced that there are enough players in this market who can help transport newspapers across the country, so that we will also have our Saturday paper in the future. The new postal law addresses the third EU postal directive. This means that the entire postal market is now open to competition, including less than 50 grams. I'm recording that some people are skeptical of this change. Then I would like to remind you that the postal market has been open to competition for several years already, and that it seems to work reasonably well. By opening up competition, current market actors will be able to offer a wider range of products. It will probably have the greatest impact on enterprises that need to distribute mass shipments. These companies will have more players competing to deliver with the new Postal Act. I have great faith that it will mean both lower prices and lower costs for business. Finally, I would like to clarify that important foundations of the old law are preserved. The principle of universal service is largely maintained. This means that even in a competitive situation, postal services will be distributed throughout the country, and that there will always be at least one company that is obliged to deliver. The unit portfolio for individual consignments below 50 grams will also be continued. That means that when most people – like me and you – send letters, it will cost the same thing if you live in Alta, in Kristiansand or in Oslo. I doubt we'll miss letters or bills on Saturday. I usually get that by e-mail or maybe through the Internet bank. The new postal law is adapted to a new reality. It enables more people to contribute to the development of a good and forward-looking offer, to the delight of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2124	The post is currently a Nordic postal and logistics group that develops and delivers holistic solutions in postal, communication and logistics. The current postal law dates from 1996, and a single committee sees the need to update and modernise the laws on today's situation. Over the last few years, we have seen a social development towards more and more digitisation. This includes, among other things: The volume of addressed letter mail has been halved since the turn of the century, and there is a trend that seems to continue even in the years to come. This is a development that gives citizens new opportunities and opportunities, but at the same time – and perhaps precisely because of this development – it is now also important that we have an up-to-date and forward-looking postal system that makes people and businesses feel good in the city and in the countryside and everywhere in our long and inexhaustible country. Many of the reasons are that in this case the Labour Party, together with the Centre Party, proposes that the Stortinget ask the Government to maintain the Norwegian reservation against the EU's third postal directive being incorporated into the EEA Agreement and that the Stortinget opposes the implementation of its third postal directive in Norwegian law. First and second postal directives have already been introduced in Norway. This means that there are only letters less than 50 grams that are not open to competition. The possible introduction of the third postal directive would open the whole postal market to competition. When the red-green government announced in 2011 that Norway would benefit from the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement in this field, the Right and the Progress Party claimed that this was irresponsible policy, that it would result in sanctions from the EU, and that the Government Party would jeopardise the EEA Agreement as a whole. This was not the case, and now — four years later — the EU itself acknowledges that the directive does not deliver what was reflected. The analysis agency WIK Consult has been commissioned by the EU Commission to evaluate the impact of the Third Postal Directive, and in autumn 2013, WIK provided a very comprehensive documentation which concludes that, with the exception of the largest customers, Europe’s citizens and business operators have not been given cheaper and better postal services; they have largely received the opposite. We in the Labour Party believe that there is a need for change and a new postal law. We have falling mail volumes, and the letters are increasingly replaced by communications in digital channels. We are also essentially in favour of this proposal. Promises guarantee universal service, and an independent complaint subject is created that can assure customers their interests in a good way. But we are also concerned that the whole country will also have equivalent and good postal services in the future, and that the newspapers will also be available on Saturdays. Now, together with the Center Party, we're making an own proposal that's being presented later today, which is exactly what Saturday distribution is all about. This seems to me to be a forward-looking policy. The post has been through many changes over the last 20 years, and these demanding, but responsible changes have led and added to the Post through a good interaction over all these 20 years and avoided major conflicts. If postal distribution is now ended on Saturdays, it will involve major conversion and manning reductions themselves. And, as he said at the committee hearing, post president Mejdell: "For the Post Office, the liquidation of the existing exclusive right by letter below 50 grams will add stones to the burden of demanding conversions." The Labour Party has been at the forefront of most of these changes, but we refuse to introduce its third postal directive and open up to full competition by letter mail, because this does not lead to better and more modernised postal services, rather to the contrary. The EU has also concluded that the Directive has not provided cheaper and better services. We in the Labour Party think it would be better now to learn from others their mistakes than to trot through what has already been found to be misguided policies. And there must be modern politics, or really 'post-modernism', in order to say it that way. With this minority, I make my proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2155	The representative, Mr Rommetveit, has presented proposal No. 1, which is behind the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2158	The Ministry of Transport sent the proposal for a new postal code at the hearing last October. The last deadline for recording was at the end of January, and 141 hearing replies were received. Of these 117 came by e-mail – 117! So a little under 20 pst. by hearing replies on new postal laws were sent in envelopes via Posten Norway. This illustrates that electronic communications have largely taken over traditional correspondence and that technology has changed people’s ways of communicating. People today communicate via SMS, Messenger, Skype, Snapchat, Digi mail – companies use e-mail. Here on the house we use pipe mail, but there are very few who send regular letters. The printing industry is getting fewer and fewer jobs, not only because people no longer use business cards and printed matter as before, but because more and more companies now also send their invoices via e-mail and contract giro. The letter quantity has been reduced by 50 pst. from 2000 to 2014, and there is no evidence that this development will not continue. On Saturdays it will be distributed 75 pst. less mail compared to the other five days of the week, and with such a small volume and such a large fixed cost, it is natural that we depart from the post-transmission requirement on Saturdays. There is a great need to update the postal law since 1996, and the proposal for new postal law is forward-looking and provides good postal services for people and businesses throughout the country. More and more people will also read their newspapers on iPad and tablet boards in the future, here evolution has really shot speed, and although it seems like we've always had iPad, it's actually only five years since former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg got a Norwegian press cart to leave because he had bought his iPad on his trip to the United States. iPad and other technological innovations we have not yet heard of will in the future take over more and more, but I have great respect for those who prefer the paper version. Saturday newspapers are fresh, so it is quite natural that we use some of the savings by completing the Saturday distribution to ensure that the newspapers will continue to be distributed on Saturdays to the small part of the market that currently depends on the Post to get this implemented. As a liberal, I'm very concerned with competition. I am too free to compete for the delivery of all letters and packages. Competition between several actors is healthy, it creates freedom of choice, it creates good, effective solutions, it contributes to innovation, to creativity and to cost reductions for the best of the customer. Today there is free competition for packages and letters over 50 grams, and it is a market that works well. The gradual introduction of competition in the postal sector has provided customers with an overall better and more accessible range. The entry has had to adapt to competition and has become a dynamic and innovative actor, and most of the turnover currently generated by the Post is actually from services in full competition. Why, then, should there be a worse offer for the last remaining monopoly operation to be discontinued? Many people clearly believe that we need to preserve the last remnants of the post-monopoly in the interests of consumers and business. In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the same actors who have been asked today to preserve the rest of the post-monopoly, why they do not at the same time want to reverse the clock and restore the post-monopoly where it has already been removed, if they really believe that it is monopolistic operation that ensures good services to consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2175	The primary objective in the postal field is to ensure a comprehensive supply of postal items at a reasonable price, of good quality to the population, businesses and authorities throughout the country. The development of ever-increasing volumes of letters combined with the transition to digital communications has led to the need for changes in today's postal law from 1996. The first and second EU postal directives are incorporated into the EEA Agreement and have already been made into Norwegian law in the current postal law. The third Postal Directive was adopted in 2008 and provides for the abolition of the exclusive right of Post to transmit letters of less than 50 grams, but allows for the continuation of the universal service. A reduction in the addressd postal mail by approx. 50 pst. the last 15 years provide a real basis for changes to the current postal distribution system six days a week. Nor can it be described as a problem that more and more are users of electronic means of communication. The digitisation that takes place in society is an opportunity and not a threat. Over the past 15–20 years, Norway has undergone a continuous transition to adapt to new times. With such a dramatic decline in addressed letter mail, there is an urgent need for a new postal code. Developments are fast and the Post Norway can no longer compensate for the decline in physical letter volumes with price increases and efficiency measures without changing the universal offer. At the rate that the decline in the volume of letters seems to continue, if no changes are made, the postal sector will be in deficit as of 2017, and according to estimates from Oslo Economics, the need for the purchase by the State in 2025 will be 2 billion. kr if no change grip is taken. The volume on Saturdays is approx. one quarter of the volume on other working days. This is a situation that suggests change. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the changes that are made with a reduction from six to five days of postal distribution are not to be undermined by the universality principle and are equal to the unitary portfolio for individual consignments of letters less than 50 grams, regardless of where one may live in the country. This is about maintaining an equivalent postal service for everyone. While most of us don't have a lot of trouble picking up bills in the mailbox on Saturdays, it's all the more important that this reduction doesn't hit the many newspapers that are delivered as fresh on Saturdays. Therefore, it has been essential that we have established a system that still involves the Saturday distribution of paper newspapers throughout the country. A large part of the newspaper volume today is distributed by others other than the Post Norway, but in the areas of the country where this has been done through the Post Norway, solutions are to be made where the newspaper will continue to be distributed to subscribers on Saturdays. This is about schemes that help to maintain important opinion-makers in our society, locally and nationally. It is about facilitating a postal transport that is not intended to affect the industry in the districts in a way that makes it more difficult to be a business in the districts of Norway than in the more central regions of the country. Saturday delivery shall also apply to the distribution of medicinal products, biological preparations where necessary, and pre-selection votes. The third EU Postal Directive opens up competition by letter of less than 50 grams. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that an equivalent postal service throughout the country also applies to mass shipments. In our view, a price difference for mass shipments will distort competition in favour of those located in cities and central districts, where the competition market is the largest. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that business actors in district municipalities and others who need mass dispatch to and from district municipalities come out just as well as other actors in the country. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will therefore ask the government to consider taking action if there are price and geographical differences that need to be balanced. A grant scheme may, for example: be an appropriate instrument to ensure an equivalent offer. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee asks the Ministry to monitor developments in this area closely. Based on the documented evolution of the transition from addressed letter mail to digital communication, the Christian People’s Party is pleased that the government has taken the initiative to make the necessary changes to adapt the postal law to a changed market – still based on the principle of equivalent postal services for all. There is also reason to pay tribute to the Post and their employees for the way in which adjustments to the new market situation have taken place to date. Then I would ask that Posten Norway therefore get the time the company needs to implement new postal laws in a way that ensures employees in a good way. Otherwise, I refer you to the good review of the case by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2201	The entry is to be made in rural and urban areas and, for the Central Party, equivalent postal services are important throughout the country. The central party is opposed to the principle of liberalising the postal market in Norway and is therefore opposed to the third EU postal directive. The postal services and funding work well today. It is true that the traditional letter mail market is falling, but that in itself is not a valid argument for scrapping a well-functioning and fair system that we have today. I am amazed that the government did not choose to listen to the arguments expressed in the mentioned consultation round, even if they came by e-mail. This amendment leads to more expensive and poorer postal services for people and businesses, especially in District Norway. Experience from other liberalised countries is negative. The government has not gained experience from the countries that have liberalised since the introduction of the third EU postal directive. Calculations have also not been carried out that show what this can cost customers or the country. The proposal distorts competition in the disfavor of industry in District Norway. Only where there is real competition for postal services will business benefit from cheaper services, leading to a distortion of competition in favour of business in the Oslo region. Keeping unit portfolios for individual shipments means, in reality, that there will also be a maximum price for mass shipments, and the consequence is that those who do not benefit from the competition will have to pay the maximum price. No restrictions on competition have been imposed, and therefore the majority propose that new postal companies should be able to foam the cream in the profitable part of the postal market. The distortion of competition can, of course, be mitigated by keeping the maximum price down, but then you will be able to get pressure on service and quality and/or that the state will have to spend more and more money on the government purchase of postal services to compensate. Is there really one thing that the majority will give priority to in the future budget? In order to safeguard the values of the State in the Post Norway AS and to facilitate good migration processes for those who now lose their jobs, it is important not to introduce the Directive too quickly. All experience The Posten and Postkom have since the last 20 years of business conversion, suggesting that time has contributed to better solutions. That is why we believe that it is important to spend time on it and allow the changeover to remove Saturday as a regular postal day to work before liberalisation and the directive is implemented. The government's proposal proposes that the Saturday distribution of newspapers be ensured by regulation. It's not clear how this is going to be solved, and what the cost is going to be. The centre party would stress that a system that does not ensure that the state ensures transmission from the printing house to the subscriber would be a major deterioration in current practice. This will mean that local authorities who have subscribers outside their own district will have to ensure that a necessary number of newspapers arrive at a dozen local distribution centres across the country without the assistance of the Post Office. I think it is very unfortunate that Stortinget should not take part in the decision on how to ensure the distribution of Saturday newspapers. If the Storting believes that the Post should be responsible for the distribution from the printer to the subscriber and that the price of this service is higher than expected, the Storting should be able to decide on this. That is why, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Labour Party, I am promoting the following proposal, which has been put forward as a loose proposal today: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting to ensure the Saturday distribution of newspapers by sending them from the printer to the subscriber.’ That being said, the Center Party sees that there are some things in the Postal Act that are positive. There is a need for updates, but there are a number of things I have pointed out that are not good enough, and that is why we have submitted proposals on the matter. That being said, the Central Party is not going to vote against the Post Act even though we have serious, serious objections to what is in the law and which signifies becoming a regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2229	The representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås has taken up the proposal she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2232	There have been major changes in the way we communicate with each other. In the past we wrote letters to each other, but today we communicate more and more electronically with each other. It happens either on a mobile phone or through Internet communications. We receive invoices, information and letters from the public generally by electronic means. The same technology has been used by industry. These changes have led to a halve of correspondence since the millennium. In addition to reducing the costs of consignors, it is usually easier and cheaper to be a recipient when it is received electronically. Not least, it's also sometimes more practical. It is almost a rarity and a curiosity if you receive today a letter and not a text message or e-mail from a friend, even if it is from abroad. This development has been going on for a long time, and it has led to major changes for the Post Office, and the way we use the Post Office. The item has been capable of adapting to this change, and they have completed the necessary conversions. Some of these changes have not resulted in a reduction in the availability or service of postal services. Such an example is Post in Storek, which meant that the opening time, level of service and availability of postal services were significantly better throughout Norway. There is nothing to suggest that the downfall in letter mail will stop. The volume seems to continue falling, and the services we need will change. Changes in themselves will not necessarily result in a lower offer. What's now increasing is the package volume, and it's due to electronic communications, too. We are increasingly acting on the Internet, leading to an increased need for the distribution of packages across the country. The need to update the law so that it is adapted to current usage is present, and one of the consequences of the changes in the Postal Act is that the Saturday mail delivery will disappear. Although we are no longer going to have mail delivery on Saturdays, it has been important for the Left that there should still be a load of newspapers on Saturdays. Only a smaller part of the country is not covered by ordinary newspaper distribution. It is important that those living in such areas continue to receive the paperpaper on Saturdays. Even though more and more readers read news electronically, the paperpaper on Saturdays, in our view, has a special position and is strongly wanted by the market. This may not be the case in a few years, but today we believe that paper paper paper paper paper will still be delivered to the subscribers on Saturdays. Fortunately, the Committee has agreed with this principle, and I am not in doubt that the Post, the newspapers and the Ministry will find a solution in cooperation that will continue to address this in a satisfactory and cost-effective way. On weekdays, I believe it is important that the universal service obligation and the level of service are maintained at the current level. Saturdays have a very low letter volume, and I think there's a great deal of understanding for a liquidation of the carry of letters on Saturdays. I also think that it is possible for most people to adapt to this new reality. I record that if it turns out that there is a special need for the distribution of biological preparations and medicines on Saturdays, the department will investigate this further. I'm very happy about that. The left is concerned that everyone should be able to vote in elections and that each vote should be counted. Voting is the low-threshold offer that everyone gets to participate in democracy. For this reason, it is important that pre-vote is produced in time so that no votes are in vain. Where the draft law contains provisions which either require the conclusion of specific agreements to this effect or require distributors to promote prior votes last weekend before election day, democracy will not be impaired by the update of the postal law. It's important. One of the other schemes on which the Left was engaged was to be continued in connection with the update of the Postal Act, was the unit portfolio. The fact that we ensure that consumers do not experience geographically different prices and get a basic offer of postal services across the country is important to the Left. The left has noticed that the Post needs time to prepare the changes resulting from a new postal law, and expects the government to give the Post sufficient time to implement the necessary changes before the law is implemented. In this way, employees also receive the best possible care for their rights. I would like to conclude by saying that the main issues of the Left are well taken care of by the proposal for a new postal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2256	The item shall not carry any profit. The post is to be sent by post. The words are Inge Ryan's, but they're equally relevant in the matter today. When the red-green government said no to the postal directive, it was the first example that it is possible to use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement. So far, it has given us the chance to stand outside a directive that has not been successful in the EU, and the ability to implement a successful system that we have had in Norway, which has enabled everyone to send equal mail at equal prices across the country. The government's proposal to introduce the Postal Directive is expensive, it's bad, and it's district hostile. It is expensive because those who compete can choose which part of the market they will compete on. While they can do so, the Community must take responsibility for that part of the market which is not profitable. A calculation of Oslo Economics, which the State and the Minister of Transport themselves use in other contexts, has shown that the state has to pay up to 1 billion. kr in the year already from 2020 to pay for non-profitable postal services if there is more competition. If it is not the State, but the customers, who are to pay for this competitive outsourcing, the price of postage must rise sharply. In Denmark, the postage increased by over 40 pst. when the entry was liberalised in 2011. The proposal is bad. Four years after the implementation of the Postal Directive, the EU itself recognises that the Directive does not work as promised. Europe’s citizens have not received cheaper and better postal services; they have been given much the opposite. The source is the report of the analysis agency WIK Consult, which was commissioned to evaluate this by the EU Commission in autumn 2013. At the same time, the pay and working conditions of employees have been severely pressured. It's a district hostile proposal. The price of mail will be more expensive for those living in the districts, and is a competitive disadvantage for traders there. It'll be more expensive there than it'll be in a big city like that. Oslo. It is only in the Oslo area that there is a basis for saying that competition for mail could give lower prices. It could be a disadvantage for businesses outside the Oslo area. Those who built the country, so that those parts of the market where there was the most money and the cheapest way to build things out, would contribute to paying for expansion in those parts of the country where you didn't have the same assumptions, so-called cross-subsidy. It was a fundamental and fundamental principle for those who built the country. That's what we do in terms of power, that's what we do in the postal sector, that's what we've done in the telecommunications sector, while those who tear down and sell the country, instead of knowing the price of everything, but are not concerned about the value of anything. I must admit that when I read the position of the Committee on the Postal Directive and saw the proposal that the government made, I came to think of a summer camp a few years ago, which went as follows: "I build, build, O you tear, tear down." For me, it is incomprehensible that the Left and Christian People's Party is blessing this implementation of the Postal Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2271	Communication between people has always been important, both for individuals and for society. Communication opportunities evolve over time. As a child, I read Lucky Luke about Pony Express, which was out of competition by the telegraph lines. The post office in Norway has provided an excellent service over a long period of time by delivering letters and parcels around it. At the same time, one sees that digital communication makes more and more people use the Internet, social media and SMS to communicate with their friends rather than send letters. That means there are still fewer letters sent in the mail. It's been about 50 pst. The decrease in postal mail distribution since 2000 and the decline will continue. This is behind the discussion about the postal law and how we regulate the postal sector. E-mail has come to stay. Many people experience that digital media are faster, better and cheaper in written communication both at work and in leisure. The use of digital newspapers is constantly increasing, people are reading Internet newspapers rather than paper newspapers. This is part of the reason why the government has also said that one must have uniform VAT, regardless of whether it is on paper or digital. It's about following in time. I am pleased that the Post Norway in its press releases and letters has pointed out that the proposed legislation that has been promoted will continue to provide Norway with good postal services, and that it will enable the Post to transform itself more in line with the needs of the users and strengthen the competitiveness of the company. When someone here today is concerned about the Post as a company, the Post itself says that these are changes they see coming. This law will allow them to embrace changes much better than if one chooses to do nothing. I think the post office here makes a good assessment. With regard to the proposal for new postal law, I don't think many people will notice a lot of differences, simply because many people feel that there is not much mail in the mailbox anymore – at least not on Saturdays. As others have said, postal distribution on Saturdays is a quarter of what is on the second day, and so other days it has been halved – in a short time. At the same time, the Post has a large infrastructure to keep them going. Making sure that they can use it efficiently, without excessive unnecessary costs, is why they have steadily streamlined year by year. That's also why an end to mail distribution on Saturdays, simply because it costs a lot to keep the machinery running in relation to the relatively few letters that are then to be distributed. We still ensure that newspapers are still to be distributed on Saturdays. Many here have said that there was a lot of criticism against the publisher in the hearing. It wasn't against the bill itself, but it was wanted to maintain Saturday newspapers that really created commitment. In the consultation draft we sent, we outlined two solutions: either to remove the Saturday paper assignment or to maintain it. A lot of people opposed to removing it. That's why we've chosen to maintain it. We will ensure that we use the tools that are necessary, and we will be able to cooperate with the newspapers and ensure that the coverage that is continues. But 85 pst. the newspapers are already being reclassified by bodies, enterprises and persons other than the Post Office, so there are good solutions to this. We want to develop these possibilities further so that the Post Office costs are minimised. So the grips we're now taking will save us about 400 million. kr in the year at unnecessary costs. When some people think that what you're doing now is expensive, this actually helps to make it cheaper. Some people are dissatisfied that the Postal Act opens up competition by letter of less than 50 grams, they claim that this would frustrate the postal service. One then forgets that e-mails already have a lot of competition from e-mails. The world is changing. Digital society has been challenging the paper community for a long time. As was mentioned when we conducted the hearing, it came about. 85 pst. of the consultation recordings via digital media. I remember that there is already competition for all letters and packages over 50 grams. I have not noticed that any of those who are afraid of competition here today will nationalise and monopolize that part of the postal sector. That is why I cannot quite understand why it is so wrong to have a competition to distribute a paper letter, while it is quite good to have a competition to distribute a package. I believe and hear the Post saying that this competition is they well equipped for, and they should be able to do so. In six days, the 10th Anniversary of the Ministry of Transport of the first note on the re-regulation of the postal market is marked. So this is a process that's taken almost ten years. I am very pleased that the Storting today seems to make the decision that we have been waiting so long for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2297	I want to ask the Council of State what it is that makes him think that we in Norway, with our geography and with our construction patterns, should be closed down with what the EU itself has stated does not work for the purpose – not even in the countries where people live much closer than what we do with us, and where the terrain is also flatter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2302	It's because we have a very good postal system initially, with a relatively efficient postal company, i.e. the Post Norway, which has shown the will and ability to change over a long period of time. That means we're not going into a postal system that someone would say was dysfunctional, as one has experienced elsewhere. One relates to enterprises that have been shown to be resilient over a long period of time. One must also say that the directive has been implemented differently in different EU countries. The WIK report referred to here concludes that one should better facilitate competition and give national supervision more powers of competition than one has today. It therefore concludes that the postal market needs more competition and not more monopoly, but it also concludes that precisely because one has not done so, we have not had the effects that were desirable. So I think one should read the whole report when one refers to it, and not just referred to the issues it travels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2309	The council was also concerned that the Post is good and that they are good. That's great -- I totally agree with that. I showed in my main post to the post manager Mejdell who well took it over and said yes, we're going to end with post-transmission on Saturdays, but there's going to be so much change for us that it's going to add stone to make sure that we're also going to liberalize the post-market for these shipments under 50 grams. I'd like to have the Council's view of it. So will I also ask what measures will the Council of State consider to avoid social dumping in this part of the labour market, as several EU countries that have already liberalised the postal market have experienced?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2318	Let me do social dumping first. There we are to have – and we have – good work supervision to carry out the checks they are to carry out, and to ensure that rules are followed up, and I am sure that this will be done in this area. I am not completely familiar with the way the representative tries to describe the reaction of the Post Norway. In a letter that we have received, dated 4 June 2015, the Post itself writes that they have for a long time ‘invited the modernisation of postal legislation adapted to current reality and changing user needs. We are therefore pleased that the postal law has now been adopted. The new law also opens up competition to letters less than 50 grams. The entry is prepared for increased competition’. – It is probably almost the very opposite I have here in writing in relation to how a person refers to the Post. That post is that they must have time to implement this and change. We've listened to that, and we're going to make sure that we make the changes to the laws at a pace that allows the Post Norway to also compete in a good way and get the change that they themselves say is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2330	I'm not going to ask any more, but I have to clear up: it may be that the Post sent different letters to different people, but when we had a hearing on the Transport Committee, this email was there, and then he left a letter with his badge on the Post, which eventually showed on Saturday distribution, where it also said that if they were to be sent letters under 50 grams, then it was going to add stones to the burda in an extensive, demanding conversion. I think he was listening to us after he sent a letter to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2335	The letter I quoted from is dated 4 June, and it's after the hearing. On 24 April, the Post sent out a press release on a postal law for the future, where they communicated the same thing. But what the Post has also been clear about is the transition period here. It's not if we're going to have a new postal code, if competition would be good, but it's the transition time – when the different stones are put in place to get the system. It is quite right that the Post has had a very clear view of how fast or late different things have to go in order for us to have a complete set of changes.We listen to the Post, because the Post has proved to be adaptable over many, many years, the Post employees have shown themselves to be adaptable and willing to cooperate over many, many years. It's about us playing teams – we're politicians, the people who work on the floor, and the people who run the Post. I'm set to do that. I have not seen at any time that the Post has argued against a new postal law, as the representative gives the impression, but they have argued for the pace of implementation, and we listen to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2342	Saturday newspaper is a lot of busy, and many still want to read it on paper. Some of us also think it's fun with newspapers outside our own region. How will the Council of State ensure that, for example, We in North Norway get the Saturday paper, whether it's our country, class struggle, nations or others? How do you want to make sure you get it from the printer to the subscriber on Saturday?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2347	The post office stands for the redistribution of approx. 15 pst. of the newspapers in Norway. So a lot of the papers have found their own ways. Very few of the newspapers depend on the Post of their distribution. Many national newspapers that have local distribution are also printed locally. With today's technology, a digital file sends over to local printers to get the job done there, just to save money on distribution. Of course, I fully agree that the newspapers should arrive on Saturday. Newspaper is a fresh product, and that's why we've said it should be handled differently than the other item on Saturdays. My mother is from Rosendal, and even when she lived at Bryne, Grenda was firm in our mailbox. It's still going to be like that. At the same time, we want to make sure that we work well with the newspapers and the Post to find the best distribution channels. A digital sending of a file to a local printery will at least be the most environmentally friendly. It makes little sense to have a mail plane traveling with a small pile of newspapers and only that in the hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2355	Several speakers have been concerned with a uniform price of the post office in order to avoid the loss of people and businesses in the districts. One of them was from the Christian People's Party, one of them was me. Then my question to the Council of State is: if you want to have a uniform price for postal services by letter less than 50 grams, is it that the Council of State believes that the State should pay the extra cost of this, or does the Council of State think that this is something the postal customers themselves should pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2360	Often, the taxpayer and the postal customer become the same person at the end. Several have spoken in this debate to ensure that we have an equivalent postal service, and we ensure this by means of this Postal Act. We secure Post in Store, which has been a great success and has approx. 1,400 places around the country. There won't be any changes in it, it's going to be put on. We say that the Post as a company gets an up-to-date regulation that makes it better coordinated with the rest of the world. We get a consumer perspective where we now have a strengthened complaint system. Then we've said that the unit portfolio for individual broadcasts should pass. That means we pay the same for sending a letter if we send it from Oslo east to Oslo west, from Vadsø to Vardø or from Vardø to Oslo. So it won't be a different price depending on where you live in the country. One gets a unit portfolio. It is very clearly mentioned in the press releases we have sent, in a big message and all the other times we have been out and talked about this. The unit portfolio will pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2371	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2376	I want to start by saying that at least there will be a new industry around the country if you take the words of the Minister of Transport, with a massive investment in new printing houses to keep the Saturday papers. An overall committee agrees that there is a need to update and modernise the postal law, which dates from 1996. That's not where the disagreement lies. We also take into account the social development that is moving towards ever more digitisation. Trying to make a big point that there are many people who use e-mails, I think this debate is going on here, because that's not what we're discussing right now. This has led to a decrease in the volume – we also agree on that. Saturdays have already been restricted, so Saturday's volume has fallen. We recognize that, and we agree on that. We agree on the disease, but we disagree on the medication. We think it would be wrong to solve this by including the third EU postal directive. That is why we already opposed the introduction of the third postal directive in 2011. It did a collective Workers' Party in a national meeting decision. At that time, the Right Party and the Progressive Party said that this was irresponsible policy, it would lead to economic disaster through sanctions from the EU, and the government parties jeopardized the whole EEA Agreement. It wasn't like that, and it's not like that four years after the implementation. So now it's like the Post isn't on the barricades and they say they want this directive introduced. On the contrary, they said in the hearing what the representative, Mr Rommetveit, said that they are in the process of transforming due to digitisation, and getting the third postal directive adds to the burden of an already demanding transition. We can't talk away from that. What is now happening to the proposal that unfortunately has been supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left is full liberalisation – full free competition, which in many cases works well, but in this case it will not. It's because it's going to turn out very crooked, depending on where a business is, and depending on where one lives in our long-term country. This will also put pressure on workers, with social dumping – we look at surveys from other countries. So it's important that we are aware of what we're into in the Storting today. We're going for a solution where we don't know the future of newspapers on Saturdays, and a future where we don't know what it will cost to send mail around our country from the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2391	Every conversion and change will be challenging. But today we are living in a society with constant changes and needs for adaptation. The purpose of the postal law is to ensure a nationwide distribution of postal items at reasonable prices and at good quality. This legislation should be updated at any time and should be seen in conjunction with any changes to the need. Mail today is not the chosen form of communication for most of us, whether in business or private. Technological development has given us so infinitely many other options where we can communicate quickly and in a reasonable and targeted way. At the same time, globalised trade through the Internet contributes to an increasing market for parcels. It is our task to facilitate this future. The net savings for the Post by ending with ordinary mail on Saturdays will be close to 300 million. kr. This is money that can be used better – e.g. to meet the changing needs of its inhabitants. Concerns have been expressed that the amendment will affect the distribution of Saturday newspapers in the districts. We're living in an increasingly digitized value, but despite this, we're reporting a total of 70 pst. by the newspaper subscribers today that they still want paper newspapers, according to the National Media Association. And no doubt: Saturday newspapers will still be available to the households who want it! It doesn't matter if you get a bill on Saturday or Monday, but for the news newspapers, it matters whether you get a Saturday newspaper on Saturday or on Monday. I want to stress that it's only 11-15 pst. of the total amount of papers not covered by own newspapers and which will be subject to the Post conversion. The bill opens up that one should be able to buy newspaper distribution in places where there is no own newsbod network. There is broad political consensus on the Storting to facilitate the distribution of Saturday newspapers, and it is particularly important that local newspapers and national newspapers are well taken care of. Here, the process in the ministry is already under way, and I feel confident that you will find good solutions for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2412	Many have expressed great concern about the future of Saturday newspapers in the debate we are now having, and also in the media over the past few weeks. The government's message has always been to seek a solution that ensures the distribution of newspapers even on Saturdays. But still – many, many months after this case was started – this is not in place. The future of the Saturday papers is still in blue. The Council of State does not express exactly concern about this development. Maybe it's natural, when he just refers to digital development and to the fact that more and more newspapers are now just as likely to be read on PDF or online. But for most newspapers today, the economy is very vulnerable and depends on the paper version. Saturday newspaper is the flagship of many newspapers. It's also the case that paper newspapers are the launch ramp for the digital bet. When you point out that this distinction can be solved by reading newspapers digitally, you forget – or maybe jump over – the fact that the digital transformation is happening now, and that if you choke the paper paper paper in the middle of this transformation, you add further stone to the burden of already pressed media houses, and you risk pushing more newspapers out of the dump. There is no doubt that if the Saturday paper is hit, the result will be that several newspapers will have major financial problems. The Christian People's Party has guaranteed the distribution of newspapers on Saturdays. Among other things, we have See that the representative Gruvan, from the Christian People's Party, tells the class struggle that Saturday newspapers are still going out to all households. But how are the government parties, with the supporting parties at the head, to ensure this? The post itself says that it is unrealistic that changed postal distribution – from six to five days a week – should have these effects. Solvik-Olsen is playing with various new solutions, such as: printing throughout the country, but who is to pay for such a scheme? As the editor of the Nations says to the Class struggle today, it is “continuing that the newspaper houses themselves have to take care of” that this distribution takes place. For the nations, for example, this would have to mean that you have to put down the paper version of the Saturday papers. If one is serious about this on the part of the Christian People's Party, I really recommend voting in favour of proposal No. 2. by the Workers' Party and the Centre, as presented in this debate. If not, I would like an explanation as to why.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2423	I noticed that the Council of State failed to answer my question instead. That's why I take it up again until I get an answer to it. But first let me just briefly describe the article from the Council of State. It was a government council that did not draw up a single offensive, good reason for implementing this – just defensive reasons for why it was not negative. Many have advanced digital developments in the debate and have used digital developments to justify the need to implement these changes and to post-competitively distribute packages and letters below 50 grams. I'm a staggering fan of digital development, because digital development is driving productivity forward and making our society more efficient. But what the government parties, supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, do today, is the opposite of promoting efficiency. What they do is they bring in competition. Then they say that the unit portfolio should be maintained either through increased taxes or through increased costs for the individual who uses the letter service in Norway. I refer again to the Oslo Economics report that I talked about in my post, which says that by 2020 you could have to pay up to 1 billion. kr – 1 billion. kr, people – to make sure that we keep the unit sport in our country. That's why I ask the Council of State a very simple question: is it the case that the increased cost of securing unit portfolios should be included in the form of increased postage by individual senders, or should they be included through increased taxes to finance this via the State budget? I think it is neat for the debate that we have a clear view, and that we get a clear view from the Council of State, when he implements this reform, with the support of the majority in the Grand Duchy. A large minority are opposed, because this is about the consequences of a reform that this has. Finally, just a small remark to the passionate about whether the Post is for or against this. I heard the Council quote from a letter that the Post said they were well prepared for this. I would like to stress that there is a very, very big difference between being well prepared for something and wanting something. In the question ‘Do you want a real cold shower?’ you will get a different answer than the question ‘Are you prepared for a real cold shower?’. That's how it's going to be in this context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2438	It was shown that there was a lack of public justification. I think there are many good public reasons in the posts we have already had today. No, not public reasons! Offensive reasons, I'm sorry. We could say public too, because it's quite public when you're standing here. The point is that many have referred to the third EU postal directive. The third EU postal directive is not the main reason for amending the postal law. The main reason for changing the postal law is actually the digitization we see in the market. There are no more players in the postal market who are the big challenge, but the fact that the mail volume, the letter volume, is falling. Then we have to adapt in a way to the new everyday life. If we don't, we will experience that the support purchase that we have to do every year will just increase and grow bigger and bigger. What we've proposed is to reduce the rate of turnover on Saturdays. As a result, we can save 400 million. kr. I am quite sure that both the representative Holmås and others have good alternatives to the use of the 400 million. kr other than to distribute mail on a day where the mail volume becomes increasingly lower and constitutes 1⁄4 of a normal everyday life. In terms of competition, some of us actually believe that it is getting more players into the entire postal market. The brother of the postal market is already open to competition today. What we're talking about now is letter mail less than 50 grams. If we open the entire postal market to competition, I think the most likely development will be that we will actually get the players already established in the market to offer a wider range of offers. I think that'll be good for each of us. It will be good not least for companies, which will have more players to play on when sending their letters or mass shipments to the market. I believe in the long term, over time, that this will also mean lower costs for business. It means something to me that we are facilitating lower costs for business by allowing more players to participate in and provide services in this market. So to the Saturday papers: this proposal is a challenge for those areas and the 15 pst. where the entry Norway is the only alternative. But we've said that we need to find an alternative. The entry Norway has estimated that it will cost from 50 to 120 million. I'll take care of it. And I think we're arguing that Post Norway is the only distributor of newspapers. No, on the contrary. There are many other players in this market who distribute newspapers, magazines, etc. Around our country, and I am quite convinced that if we make this happen, we will also find good distribution channels for newspapers in the future – make sure that we also get local distribution points and that everyone across the country gets newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2451	There is a lot of hope and faith in the debate on this matter. I'm using it to say that you might want to do other places. What you should have done was get the facts. The reason I took the floor was that I wanted to say that I actually didn't use time to get new facts. It turns out that what is the basis of this whole case are reports and investigations on which the government has built, and decisions taken between 2009 and 2010. It has not been taken inwards or checked how this has worked in Europe. Then maybe you wouldn't have stood here and hoped and believed. At least what's at stake is opening up competition. We're in agreement with that, and then we're a little bit in disagreement about whether it's the right medicine. At least what it says is that this will be a good thing for those who have a lot of volume and for the big cities. Who's the loser? Well, more or less everyone outside the circle around Oslo. So the conclusion is that such a proposal will be district hostile and outrageous. That is another thing we should also be aware of with the proposal that is here today. Yes, you can say that you're taking a grip to save 400 million. kr. I have not realized that we disagree so much about looking at the post law and taking inward what is happening, but what we do not have a response to today is what it will cost to maintain the circulation of newspapers on Saturdays. The amount mentioned in the case is 50 million. SEK-120 million. kr, provided it is close by. That means that everyone who gets newspaper today on Saturdays won't get it. On direct questions to the Post at the hearing, they say that it will cost about the same as today if we are to maintain the same air services with newspaper coverage throughout the country. We have to bring that with us, and we have to be aware of that when we say what we say. So it's actually very timely that question and the challenge that went to the Christian People's Party: what does it mean when you say you're going to maintain the circulation of the newspapers on Saturdays? Is it today’s arrangement, or is it just the local way to maintain the arrangement? Finally, there is no doubt that with regard to the proposal that lies here, whether you like it or not, the Minister of Transport has been good for a year now and has gone out saying that it should not go beyond the unit portfolio and for you and me who are going to send letters. What he fails to say – he says it, but it may not be so easy to discover – is that it concerns individual shipments. So, the one letter I'm going to send from Hemnes to Oslo, there's no change for it, but the company out on Hemnesberg, which is going to have mass dispatch, will not get the same competition as the ones operating here in Oslo. There's a significant difference. And then, in the future, we're not going to be involved in deciding whether they're suddenly cutting to four days, or whether they're going to go away from A-mail, which was also mentioned in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2469	It was the post from the representative Place that made me ask for the floor. There have been some numbers and sizes in terms of what it means to distribute newspapers to all households also on Saturdays, which several in this room have been busy with. This location refers to a number between 50 million. SEK-120 million. kr. However, it is in the process of securing internal distribution in each region when localisations enter its local neighbourhood. For example, if Levanger-Avisa have subscribers in Oslo – there are many trancers living in this city – it is not a responsibility that the Post will take. And the post office answers, which Juvik pointed out quite correctly, to direct questions. What if this type of regional distribution of newspapers is to be ensured? Then it will be roughly the same as if you were still in Saturday mail distribution. The winner is in the spin. Since I see that the Council of State is next on the list of speakers, I would like to challenge the Council of State: what are the correct numbers? And question No. 2 is: Who is to take responsibility? When the Council of State says this, we're going to find good solutions, and when the Count has promised to secure this, who's paying the bill? Is it a responsibility of the State? Is it a responsibility to be imposed on the Post Office, or is it a responsibility that the newspapers themselves must bear? If the latter is the result, I fear that many newspapers in Norway will have major financial problems immediately. I think we have to get these answers before Stortinget takes a decision on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2479	Good postal services are important. This has led us to the work we have done. When I hear the counter-arguments here, it seems that one really more drives with the faith and doubt that someone warned against. I mentioned in my main post that the Post itself has said that the bill will enable the Post to transform more in line with the needs of the users and strengthen the company's competitiveness. So when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says this is about one being prepared for a cold shower or not, I record that the Post itself in its press release says that this strengthens the company's competitiveness. Ergo is Eidsvoll Holmås' objection declared invalid from the Post itself. Then he cast doubt on newspapers on Saturdays. I wonder why he's creating that debate. Is it because one then says that we should maintain all mail distribution on Saturdays? Then one misses the full savings of 400 million. kr. Then we've said in all debates afterwards that if it costs 50 million. SEK or 120 million. kr, we don't know yet. Does it cost less or more? We've said that in any case, we're going to maintain the Saturday newscast. But if the Workers' Party's answer is that if we don't know the price tag now, before Stortinget has made its decision, then we will maintain all mail distribution and miss a total of 400 million. kr in savings, because that is the option that the working party here takes up. I don't understand that debate. We have said that the Saturday distribution should be maintained. And then at the same time we've shown that 85 pst. of the newspapers find channels other than the Post, and we think that that number is also possible to increase because there is a bunch of local printers around. Queued for printing: Should new printers be created to allow local printing of Saturday newspapers? You know what -- those printers already exist. It's local viewers all over the country already. Think what economy they could get if they could push a little more than the class struggle and the nations, yes, some of them already do. These newspapers have already figured out, precisely because it costs money today to distribute newspapers with the Post. The post doesn't run charity today, they don't do this for free for the nations, the class struggle and the others. They charge just like everyone else. Therefore, there is already an incentive in the system today to print more locally. I also thought you'd look at that as a good environmental grip. Then the Workers' Party tries to doubt the unit portfolio. It will not be more expensive for business even if they send five letters instead of one letter. The unit portfolio applies to all. It's not like if you send a letter, it costs 10 kroner, and you send two letters, it costs 23 dollars. The unit portfolio will last, but then it will have a competition. But I honestly don't think that in a market that has as much decline as we have seen in recent years, there will be many players who will be a big competitor to the Post. The item has an advantage, and it has a system that is already built up, and it will build on it even with a reduced market share.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2494	Questions have been asked about the functioning of the Saturday newscasting system. I understand that more people are very concerned about it, and I am very happy that it is not just the Christian People's Party who are concerned that that arrangement should work. That's an important question. It's about important opinionators, it's about being able to have an equal arrangement for the whole country. Therefore, from the Christian People's Party, we have been crystal clear that this is a system that will apply to all newspapers, and it will apply no matter where one may live in this country. Then there's a cost framework set aside. It's very soluble, but that means that you have to pay what this costs, and then you have to make agreements in the individual cases that make the paper come out. All shall receive the newspapers; no distinction shall be made between local and national newspapers. I think the council here has been very clear on the exact same promise. So there can be no doubt that there is a majority on the Stortinget to ensure that the Saturday shift of newspapers is a system that will also work in the future with new postal laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2501	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2504	I don't know what to do as long as the Council of State doesn't answer my question, and the speaking time runs out. My simple question to the Council of State is this: Is it that the extra costs involved in maintaining a unitary portfolio, and which Oslo Economics has estimated, could rise to 1 billion. kr by 2020, to be covered with increased costs for each correspondence? Or is it that these costs are to be covered by increased taxes from the community? That's a simple answer to that. Let's say it like this, it's a scandal if the Council of State hasn't thought through this. If he's thought through it, the Storting actually deserves an answer from him. This is probably an ideological right-hand side experiment that is being conducted, and the issues surrounding it are being answered with airy answers. The entire outsourcing of letters below 50 grams will result in a transfer of money from good, effective Community mechanisms to private, global business. That's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2511	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2514	To the Council of State Solvik-Olsen: It is absolutely right that the Labour Party would have liked to have clarified these figures for what we are actually discussing, because there is a big difference between whether it is 50 million. SEK or 400 million. I am talking about liability. There is also a big difference between whether this should be a State responsibility, whether there should be a responsibility for the Post or whether it is a responsibility that the newspapers themselves have to bear. This is important to clarify before Stortinget makes such an important decision. It is tempting to ask the Council of State for Solvik-Olsen how many active printers he believes there are in Norway. If it was that it was profitable for the newspaper industry to have a number of printshops around, you might have had one around every nose in Norway. The fact is, it goes in the opposite direction. The market is consolidated, and there are fewer and fewer printers. We know that it has a huge cost if this is going to be the solution from the government. What would have created security in the industry now was that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left had voted in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox That would ensure the necessary tranquillity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2521	I understand that the representative of Grande would like to have a Christian People's Party on his own proposal, but that is not necessary. The Council of State has now assured us that we will ensure that we have Saturday's newspapers. The majority of the Committee in its position said that we should have newspaper Saturdays. Then we'll figure out arrangements. More complicated than that, we don't have to do that. I think it is absolutely unnecessary that we should make a lot of uncertainty about this when the Storting is so clear in its communication, and the Council of State is so clear in its communication. With regard to the distribution of newspapers, the Post Norway helps everyone across the country to obtain newspapers. But it's only 15 pst. by the subscribers who rely on Posten Norway for their newspapers. In these areas, we need to find solutions. It's not worse. With regard to national distribution of newspapers, there are many other actors who are tone-indicating and who have the large volume. In our discussion, it almost seems as if there are no alternative distribution channels for the Post Norway in Norway related to the distribution of newspapers, magazines, etc. There are actually some people who even distribute on Sunday. We've had a good debate, but it's an unnecessary uncertainty in my opinion you're trying to create here whether or not we're going to have newspaper Saturdays. And we'll figure that out. So to the representative Holmås and the question related to the Oslo Economics report, where it is referred to that there is a possible extra cost of 1 billion. kr. The extra cost of 1 billion. In the case of an opening to competition, significant start-ups are linked to the Norwegian market. The likely scenario in the Norwegian postal market is not that there will be a lot of new players, but that the existing actors actually contribute to ensuring an expanded offer to customers. It must be positive for us who believe that competition can be a positive element in the whole postal market. I would like to remind you that the majority are already exposed to competition today, which has also been stamped by the previous government, and it works well. That there's some reason why it shouldn't work well for what's less than 50 grams, I just don't understand. In fact, I think that will mean that we are getting more innovation, new products, new opportunities and lower costs over time for business, and that must be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2534	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2548	It is a unanimous committee that supports the position on the matter. No particularly significant negative comments have been made in the hearing. The reason why this case must at all be on the table here in Stortingen is that we see that there is a development in the world and a threat picture that changes, which also means that we need to make new decisions. A lot of new legislation has been put in place in aviation, there will be new legislation gradually in the field of maritime transport, and so now we see this in terms of the path. It is then important to see what the Committee is presenting here. It is important that legislation on safety and preparedness for rail transport is now drawn up and that the State’s railway oversight is able to carry out supervision which would create a borderline with other authorities having similar functions in other sectors. It is also important that information exchange between supervision and other authorities is now provided. There is really nothing more to say in the matter. The matter is important, and I believe that the government has shown the power of action in getting it so early and fast on the table that we could handle it here on the Stortinget before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2559	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2573	I would first like to thank the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for its full support. That is a good starting point for the matter. In the bill, the government proposes amendments to the Road Traffic Act, etc. – conditional parking. Condition parking means parking for payment, with a time limit or under other conditions. The purpose of a common parking code is to ensure the predictable and consumer-friendly exercise of parking activities, including the universal design of the parking offer and the quality and uniformity of parking activities, irrespective of who offers parking. Furthermore, the aim is to ensure a level playing field between municipal and private parking activities and to facilitate the supervision of the activities. The Government's proposal now requires stricter requirements for industries, the nature of the parking areas and the penalties for controls. Furthermore, the government is given the right to provide detailed rules on supervision and supervisory instruments. This applies, inter alia, to: the right to specify the requirements for the removal, storage and delivery of vehicles, including from parking other than condition parking. Proposal for a new Section 8 is the central change. This provision will specify in the first paragraph the scope of a new common parking legislation and give the government the right to provide details of conditional parking, inter alia. on requirements for establishments wishing to provide conditional parking and for persons required to enforce such parking, including training and training. Furthermore, individual parking areas, including signs, may be subject to user-friendly and universal payment arrangements, universal parking design and specific arrangements and reservations for parking authorisation holders for persons with reduced mobility. The current exemption from payment for persons with reduced mobility with a parking permit in paid municipal parking spaces is continued, while the exemption from payment for electric and hydrogen-powered motor vehicles in paid municipal parking spaces is continued as a right, but no obligation, for municipalities. This matter has had a long journey before it came here. Payment solutions and options have changed a lot since 2005. The smartphones have replaced the old mobile phones. Apps have replaced SMS. The Committee considers that the Ministry can look into this issue and, where appropriate, take the necessary steps to facilitate new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2592	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good presentation of the Stortinges view on the matter. I just want to say briefly that I am very pleased that the committee has given its support to the government's bill. In the same way that the Postal Act, as we have just dealt with, is also a matter that is now approaching the 10-year anniversary of the ministry's work. We are very pleased that we are now adopting this and can start working on implementing it. I think many of us know friends, families and others who have experienced that they feel unfair in the way they have been treated when they have parked their car and found a parking lot under the window wiper. Having a consumer perspective in the law is very important to us. At the same time, we know that many parts of the parking industry have also called for a better regulation, precisely because they also see that small bandits in the industry are destroying the reputation of the industry. The legislative proposal will provide a framework for a new common parking code with rights and obligations both for parking and for those offering such service. Within the framework, there are clear requirements for the parking industry and its supervision and the establishment of a new common parking complaint in order to settle disputes precisely related to rights and obligations. New parking legislation will also ensure better rights for persons with reduced mobility and ensure electric vehicle owners’ capacity to charge electricity. Once the Stortinget has made its decision, we will ensure that we work well and efficiently to implement this legislation. It's a code that's had a lot of commitment when it's been at the hearing. That means that there are a lot of reasons to take, and that have to be balanced in a good way. But with the Storting decision, we can start this work and ensure that laws and regulations come into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2601	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2615	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2622	The first speaker is Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, who is now acting as rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2625	This case concerns both aviation, road and rail. The committee is essentially behind the whole setting, so I'm not going to take that many minutes. First of all, I would just like to mention that the Committee would like to point out that it is very positive to the government's desire to develop the E16 and the Ringerix Railway in one project. We are pleased that the planning time is being cut short, and that this important project is being implemented more quickly. I also want to mention the work that is linked to Skæggestad Bru. There was a race in February this year that was dramatic, which could have ended very much worse. That's where it's been since the crash. It's been going around. The E18 has been closed, but you have worked too fully, and the Committee is pleased that the northern bridge can be opened at both stages before the common holiday starts and there will be a very large increase in traffic down the E18. I also want to mention briefly the Bergen programme, where the fourth stage of the Urban Railway is on its way. The Committee has noted that the Bergen programme economy has developed more favourably than envisaged. The Committee would also like to stress that the Urban Railway is an important project for increasing the collective participation in Bergen. Finally, the only point in which the Committee shares is the comment on independent roadside supervision. There is a majority who are pleased that the Ministry of Transport wants to establish its own independent roadside supervision. We believe that this is good, and we look forward to the government presenting an independent roadside supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2638	First, the investigation of new Bodø airport. We meet that investigation and look forward to finding a good solution for Bodø. With regard to the investigation proposed, I see that this is a pace of what means that the process of taking over the airport at Bodø should not be delayed either. Then I am satisfied with that method of financing tolls, and I am very happy to be able to open up the funds from the Bergen programme to continue the Urban Railway in the centre of the Füllingsdalen – i.e. the fourth stage. We're also looking forward to that, and we're satisfied with the solution you choose, which it's open for there. It's possible the council will say something about it, but we're excited about the status of Skæggstad Bru, who became a bottleneck and a problem, and we hope you get a solution to that, at least before the summer season with the big traffic that we know goes on this route. So it's true that we disagree with what's available with regard to the organisation of roadside supervision, and we'll come back to that matter in a proper way when it's being discussed, considering the road reform and that bit. That's what we want to say at this point about the issues in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2651	There's not much more to point out from the Progress Party. There is, of course, a completely unanimous committee that is behind everything, except – as the representative Juvik just mentioned – the organisation of roadside supervision. We are committed to the freer and more independent role of supervision, and therefore it is important to be able to support the intention to separate this from the state road system. It is precisely what we have seen that has become more important and important, that supervision does not have ties and is not subject to – as in this case – the road director. As it also says in the case, the department will come back to this in a separate case, and then this will be the subject of discussion, but it is timely that this comes now, in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2660	I'm not going to go into the whole of what's presented. I refer to what the case rapporteur has presented, but I want to go into the point on which there has been a disagreement in the committee, this with an independent roadside supervision. Safety on the road is objective No. 1 in transport policy. That is why in the Christian People's Party we have been working for several years for our own independent roadside supervision. The red-green government established a roadside surveillance function in the Road Directorate. It was a step in the right direction, but it wasn't good enough. The Christian People's Party then believed that the red-green government did not go all the way out. There should be independent and independent supervision. The case of independent roadside supervision has been assessed several times in the past. In a 2009 NOU, it was recommended to establish independent roadside supervision, but that government did not follow the advice of the government-appointed sample. Instead, roadside supervision was established under the organisation of the State Road Administration. I won't stay long by history, but on the part of the Christian People's Party, we were concerned that the State Road Service would run control of itself within an area that at any time requires great openness and humility to the public. The solution that was then chosen, we thought, could make it very difficult to separate the roles, which could weaken the trust of the supervisor. It'll be a bit like letting the goat take care of the oat sack when you leave the Road Directorate, which is responsible for road development and road maintenance, also overseeing the same sector. A completely different principle was adopted here in due course from what has been done for aviation and rail. In order to ensure compliance with standard requirements and to ensure the safety of the drivers, it is necessary to have independent supervision without excessive ties to the department responsible for development and maintenance. That is why it is good, the approach that is now being proposed, that there should be supervision as a separate administrative body under the Ministry. It is good that this is being cleaned up as part of the work on transport reform. Today, the supervision of state road services’ activities related to infrastructure on national roads has been overseen. I have noticed that the government will come back to Stortinget with an assessment of whether you can give the supervision more tasks. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the scope of supervision need not be confined solely to infrastructure. Coordination of the supervisory functions in the area of infrastructure, road and vehicle, rather than purely infrastructure supervision, is of the opinion that we will be an exciting and good system. The effect of coordinating the measures will provide significant added value. So finally some words about another important matter, and that concerns the Ringerix Railway. Here it is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that we keep the pressure up. In formal terms, in this proposition, it's about repealing an earlier decision to raise the issue. Now everything is in place for the department to take decisions on trasé elections, and if everything goes on rails, in the correct sense of the word, construction can start in 2019, and the Ringeriksbanen can be finished in 2024. From the Christian People's Party we will do everything we can to get the Ringerix track realized as quickly as possible and in the best possible way, and I hope that all those involved can help us get a good progress here, at any stage of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2679	I would like to make a few comments on two major transport projects relating to two communities, Åsane – formerly its own municipality at Bergen, now part of the municipality of Bergen – and Hole/Ringerijke in Buskerud – now two municipalities after a successful divorce. I start this way because this case also shows in practice the extent to which one gets to the cooperation necessary between neighbouring geographical areas. What has happened in Bergen and what is described in the document is that it was decided in 2009 that the urban railway network in the Bergen area should be extended northwards to Åsane after the extension to Flesland had been completed. Then a long course was to go west from the center to the Füllingsdalen. Then it turned out in 2012 that there were so many complications in the city government in Bergen, of which Åsane is part, that the plans were not completed. It is bad work on the part of the Right Town Council that one failed to implement what was an agreed plan, where the step after Flesland was Åsane. So it didn't make sense to agree politically on this. One doesn't know now how long the planning will take. One can risk a stop in the continuous expansion. This is important for the Storting to point out, and it is important that the Council of State follows closely what is happening in Bergen, so that the people of Bergen are connected to this important urban track in the way that has been established in the past. It is to be regretted that the city council in Bergen and the city council cannot do such a job that one can realize the plans that are part of the plan of both Bergen and Hordaland County. The next is the railway and the Ringerix Railway. It's important for two reasons. The first is to make Ringerijk and Hole a more attractive residential area. They have very attractive areas which lie on an unproductive basis and with shorter transport times it can be a very attractive area. It could also help to make developments in Buskerud more widespread, and that we ensure a development in a larger part of the county and not with as much emphasis on the Drammen as we have today. The other one is saying that this is also Bergensbanen's abbreviation. It is an incredibly important project, but both Bergensbanen and the associated new road will be very precious – this is incredibly expensive. What we're talking about here is the railway. The centre party is on the Åsa option. The Åsa option is the one previously adopted. That's because it's the most environmentally friendly option. We are now in the situation that there is no longer a majority in the Biggest of the Åsa option. What's going to happen then is that you have to go into areas that are the richest in Norway. It's no coincidence that the area we're now going to enter, the house has more kings than they have. It shows how fertile the earth and fjord are here. It's been an attractive area. Leading through this area is very expensive. I will address myself to the Council of State about this. It will be very expensive because you have to take the necessary environmental considerations. Because here the problems are in line: here it's cultivated land, here it's cultural values, here it's settlement, here it's a number of rare species, and here it's a Ramsar area. It's probably not anywhere in Norway as much as we're going through here. Then it is central that there is a good cooperation between the Road Administration and the Railway Agency, and I must praise the Road Administration and the Railway Agency for that. It is important that one ensures it, and that one implements the planning in such a way that a large environmental tunnel is built and thus excavates road and track into the ground, so that the areas are unaffected externally. It's important that this is done. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that it does. If that does not happen, it would be natural to raise the matter again in Stortinget, because it is such an important national case that the values are preserved in a good way – much better than what has been done in the past – because here we are in a special area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2692	SV is for the development of the Ringerik Railway. It's an important train route, for which we've fought for a long time. It will significantly cut the journey time between Oslo and Bergen and be a decisive part of Bergensbanen's abbreviation. Development will also be important to address local transport needs. The construction of the Ringerik track will have consequences for the food soil and will cause a burden on nature. This will be the situation for all trasé options under consideration. SV asks the government to ensure that negative environmental impacts are minimised through project planning and implementation. The size has been previously informed and agreed that several different trajectory options for the Ringeriksbanen have to be considered, both above Åsa and above Kroksund. Development over Kroksund is very challenging because the trasé selection affects a valuable wetlands area nearby, Helgelandsmoen and Busund, which is an area Norway is obliged to maintain due to our accession to the Ramsar Convention. Other reasons were mentioned by the previous speaker. Last autumn, the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration announced that, since the planned road over Kroksund in any case triggers many of the environmental impacts for wetlands with Ramsar status, the argument for rail over Åsa has been weakened. We therefore believe that rail-based planning should be carried out over Kroksund. It's an understandable argument, given a way. It was also argued that the planned speed of new trains makes Kroksund more suitable than the detour over Åsa. However, SV disagrees with the construction of a new four-field road on the Skaret-Honefoss route. The road will lead to increased traffic, contrary to agreed climate objectives and with significant consequences for protection interests, outdoors and the surrounding environment. SV believes it is wrong to develop an increase in car traffic between the Ringeriks region and Oslo. We believe that the current route should instead be upgraded, mainly after existing trajectory and with a focus on traffic safety. This is a concrete way of supporting the objective of transport growth in the capital area through public transport, bicycles and corridors. The decision-making basis from transport modes is now external quality assurance, and the government has said that when the decision-making basis is completed in June of this year, the planning process will be taken into consideration. Nevertheless, the government has now asked for the repeal of the previous decision on the roll-out, which is leading the way in which the draft elections are to be planned. In practice, this should be understood as meaning that the government is planning to remove the trasé option over Åsa and concentrate on trasé choices over Kroksund. The intention is to shorten the planning time. Croksund and the area nearby — the wetlands I talked about — are valuable biotopes subject to international protection obligations under the Ramsar Convention. It is important that Norway takes its international environmental obligations seriously, given the major protection challenges we know that the Railway Agency will meet in planning. If you only plan a trajectory over Kroksund, it makes me ask questions about this really short planning time, because the opposite can happen: you can stand up to ever greater challenges as planning progresses, but you have no real alternative to fall back on, because the option was taken away to save time. SV therefore considers it important to give priority to progress in the planning of the Ringeriksbahn and that more trasé options should be included in the further work. This will ensure the best possible basis for decision-making. That is why, today, we are promoting a proposal that, in the further planning process of the Ringeriks Railway, there should still be a number of trasé options, including the Åsa option, in order to ensure the best possible basis for decision-making in order to achieve a fast and good rail system and to take care of important natural areas. I address the proposal I have submitted. In addition, this is an opportunity to address some other matters of transport, which the government has also done by briefing the Storting, and there are a few things I need to point out. One is the City Railway in Bergen. There's a disagreement about the progress of Åsane. The City Council in Bergen has therefore chosen to go to investigate the Filling option, i.e. the city path to the Filling Valley, instead. I'll ask the council immediately after the election, when there will in any case be a new city council and new people in the city council that are gathered, take up this matter with Bergen, signal that you want a 70 pst. State funding, willingness to do so, and willingness to move on with urban options both to Åsane and to the Filling Valley. The inhabitants of the mountains and the exiles are impatient. The other thing I want to record is the city packages in More. To that I would just say that it would have been beneficial if the council instead of rejecting urban packages from the Moor cities had been attending and said: urban packages that take greater account of the environment and public transport, we should be willing to participate in financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2713	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2716	The head of the evening post stated on Monday that economic considerations and considerations of convenience for us people weigh more and more heavily, and that a forward-looking nature management weighs less and less. The evening post believes that the bulk of population still allows short-term interests to run over scientific evidence and nature protection decisions based on thorough processes. Lead and snowmobiles are released into the wild. In the Sørdalen nature reserve you can now pick berries, fish and build powerlines. The train shall pass through sheltered wetlands in Vormsund, and today the bulk of flooding will open up to the railways and motorways through one of Norway’s large natural pearls, the Northern Tyrifjord wetlands system, where several areas are protected under the International Ramsar Convention. Under the title ‘Some Road and Railway Matters’, Stortinget is now dealing with a trajectory for the Ringerix Railway. With one sentence about a subchapter in a proposition, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party open up massive interference in this area. The Greens fully support the strengthening of the Oslo-Bergen train link. The question is, will we allow the train trip to take a little longer and let the route cost a little bit more, so that we do not destroy any of the finest nature and the finest cultural landscape we have. Right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party answer no, these parties will not span a few minutes' train ride and a few million dollars to protect a wetland area that the river has spent 10,000 years building up. The starting point is that in 2014 the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration proposed that the Åsa Road for the new Ringerix Railway be set aside to ‘make further planning easier’. The majority will now cancel the roll-call decision on the further planning of the Ringerix Railway, which is based on the corridor over Åsa, and the government will decide on the choice of trajectory before the formal planning of the Ringerix Railway begins. The real significance of this is opening up to lay the Ringerix track through the Northern Tyrifjord wetland system, and this is at the same time a long step towards laying a new highway at the same place. It is an investment in more road, which gives more traffic and which weakens the train, rather than, for example, the upgrading today's road and supporting the climate agreement. The choice of the Ringeriksban was a major issue in the 1990s and 2002. Then the majority took nature protection and soil protection seriously and chose the Åsa option to save the Tyrif soil. Right, SV and Christian People's Party wrote that ‘The Åsa option meets the objective of substantial curtailment on the Bergensbanen west of Hönefoss, and that the Åsa option has a slightly longer travel time than the Kroksund option’. [[2 min]] And the Committee noted that the Ministry of Transport did not recommend Kroksund because of the major negative impacts on the landscape, the natural environment and agricultural interests. In the committee position we are now debating, this is not at all mentioned. The majority only writes that ‘the final trasé elections for the Ringeriksbane are to be taken by the government, as is usual in these kinds of cases’ – i.e. parliamentary disclaimer of maximum volume. Everything that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party thought about this matter, and everything the Left usually thinks about nature protection, is gone like the morning breeze over the wetlands. This case is about exactly what nature protection is all about: Protection by nature requires a sea of time, documentation and process. We do it to protect our key natural values in a social development where there is always a desire for intervention and development. Maintaining nature is a continuous job. Nature protection is about standing on the side of nature when it really applies. It's about saying no when the pressure is greater. The majority of the Committee do the opposite. They celebrate nature protection aside, without even wanting to discuss it. I'm being ugly. In this Chamber there will be real reflection and real debate. I hope the representative Raja, who is not here, from the environmental party Left, is thinking about the conflict between this position and the nature protection policy of the Left. I hope the representative Gruvan, from the Christian People's Party, thinks about whether he really wants to destroy these values. I hope the representative of Hofstad Helleland, from the right-wing knowledge party, is thinking about the protection decisions she is about to ignore. For this matter, exactly what the Evening Post says is about: economic considerations and reasons for convenience are becoming more and more weighty. The Greens therefore put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the route to the Ringeriksbahn does not affect the protected wetlands of the Northern Tyrifjord wetland system or is contrary to the Ramsar Secretariat recommendations for the area.’; I hope several votes for this, and I take this up the suggestions I have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2748	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2751	This is a setting which is generally unanimous in all areas. The government appreciates that. It gives us clear leadership in the further work. The bearded burrow has been mentioned. The Road Service is working on opening that bridge as quickly as possible. There are many things that need to be checked to make sure that the bridge body that we now want to open up to traffic is harmless and harmless for people to drive on. The objective is that this part of the road is open to traffic before summer holidays. I appreciate the signals given about the airport in Bodø. There's something that's been controversial in local areas, where several of the local parties have been against this and thought it was a dream to start with. Today's government has said that we want to look at the possibility of moving the airport, and we are very pleased that the parties are turning around and giving unanimous support to this work. I am also very happy to see what the Committee writes about the operational responsibilities of freight terminals. It is a unanimous committee which says that the Railway Agency should suspend terminal operations. I'm very happy about that. That means that we have the Storting behind us in terms of the outsourcing of that work. The ringing ringing path has been theme. Now it is the matter of quality assurance. This means that we are waiting for independent professionals to make an assessment of the work that has been done with the Road Administration and the Railway Agency. However, let me say to the matter that I am very satisfied with the work that the Railway Agency and the Road Administration have done in the matter so far. This is a matter that I think most parties can say they've fought for, because it's a matter that's been going on for over 25 years, without one having come to material investment. What's happening now is that we've made the Road Administration and the Railway Agency work together to just look at how to make the best possible way and rail between Oslo and Hønefoss to connect the region closer to home and work. It also means that the Road Administration and the Railway Agency see things differently than when they have only planned the railway for themselves and the road for themselves. It makes sense to have a holistic approach to the environment, land use and economics. I record the local politicians in the region giving us very good feedback on the way the agencies have done their work. I noticed that the assistant road manager in February last year was at the NRK Dagsrevyen and said that the way the government put up the work, they had not worked before, but he thought it could work. Once we have received the feedback a year later, the Railway Agency and Vegvesenet are also very satisfied with the way they have been allowed to cooperate. In addition, we record that everything from the Riksantikvar to environmental interests and cultural interests says that cooperation has been very good because they have seen the sections in the context. Instead of having a conflict between one and a field or one and a group of protected species, the whole route has been coherent and able to make comprehensive assessments, making the overall best possible use of both land, agriculture, environmental interests, other protected cultural memories and so on. We will continue to work on this in order to make a trajectory, make decisions and realize this – it deserves to be done by Henefoss and the Ringeriks region – just to get a good housing and labour market. In this context, we also have to recognise that the time factor is something that people focus on when they decide where to work and where to live. Making sure that we get efficient transport corridors is part of the overall assessment that we're going to have and that makes Honey Foss become an even more attractive place for people to live — and move to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2770	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2773	I would like to make three recommendations to the Council of State in the extension of the discussion on the issues in the vote. One is the question of bicycle paths. There are some road projects here, and I would just recommend to the Council of State to ensure that the road projects mentioned here are well planned, and in a way that is suitable for ensuring safe cycling along the roads. It's all too often like this, as we see in some projects under state control, that we haven't been good at organizing bicycles. This has been a general problem. It's just looking at some of the intersections, etc. built here in the city in recent years, e.g. Carl Berner's place and in front of the railway station, where it is not arranged for a bike in a way that is a big city worthy. I would therefore encourage the Council of State to ensure that bicycles are properly maintained. When it comes to the issue of the airport in Bodø and its transfer, we think it's very good, what the Council of State does. SV was the first in Bodø to record and say that this is an area that should be used for urban development. Instead of taking from the areas that are large and good agricultural areas in the back of the airport, you should move the airport, when there is no fighter base up there, as Bodø's primary choice was after all. So I'm very happy about that. But it is clear that when this is an area that has been used as an aerodrome, one must be aware that there may be a lot of poison residues, residues by different types of poison, in the ground, and it is important to take into account – and environmental considerations – to it from the very beginning. Finally, I just want to say something that I know will not make my colleague from Midsund as happy with me. The Council of State has decided for the Moorax as the alternative to a ferry-free E39. Some of us disagree with the idea of a ferry-free E39, but let go – if it is to be realized, one must at least look for the best solutions. The moor axis involves a very heavy tunnel – long tunnel, deep tunnel – which we know from experience is unpopular for truck drivers and very negative for vulnerable road users. An option that has not been properly explored is a link between the West and the Sekken – Sekkefast – and further inwards, the so-called Rome valley shaft, which will actually take the traffic outside the Molde, and which will be without a lower tunnel. I would recommend to the Council of State that one consider such an alternative in the further planning, simply because it will be a solution without a large, deep sink tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2784	It almost seems as if it is unnecessary to take the word and talk more about the Ringerix course, but I'm doing it now anyway. It's not to greet home, but to place one thing in the hall here that I hope the Council of State will notice. It is that, as has already been said by several speakers, the Stortinget has dealt with the Ringeriksbahn on several occasions and decided that it should be built – but it is still not built. It's remarkable. The country’s National Assembly solemnly decides that things should be done, and then they are not done – it’s remarkable. What an invisible hand that has been out in connection with the projects that Stortinget has decided to implement, I have often asked myself questions about, and my only intention to take the word now is so strong I can encourage the Council of State to be aware, so that an invisible hand does not reappear and hinder the implementation of the Ringeriksbahn. For the Ringerix Railway is a national project. It's about what's been a lot of talk about here, the release of the Ring Kingdom as an area that is very valuable to the development of the entire Oslofjord region, and we're going to be totally dependent on if we're going to be able to place all the people who are going to live here according to the forecast – at least 600,000 more. Then it will be absolutely necessary in many ways. But it's also about the train connection between east and west. With regard to the situation in Åsane, I refer to what the representative Lundtigen said here in an earlier article. I agree. I don't know if the Council of State feels called to say anything more about it, but I have previously decided that if we're going to get this done, we'll probably need a separate project organisation to handle the Ringerix Railway. It's a huge project, and we can't go into modern communication for the future without having an efficient railway between Bergen and Oslo, which is the two economic centres in Norway in many ways. Therefore, I repeat only one thing: make sure that not the invisible hands in this sector again prevent the implementation of the project or create delays in the project that pushes it out. We can't afford that anymore. Now we decide what to adopt, and the government has the necessary powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2800	I have to tell the President that as the rapporteur-in-Office, I am concerned that the Stortinge discusses the matter we have to deal with. When the representative from SV starts to pull in the Møreak, a project that is not at all mentioned in the case we are dealing with, there are many other road projects that many representatives would have discussed in the Chamber, so I suggest that the president try to direct the word from the actual transport projects we are discussing. So I'd like to add that the E39 trajectory has been taken after a thorough design investigation, and there I think the government has done a good job. There are many people who want to discuss the railway here. I think the representative of Kolberg had a lot to say about how important it is to get speed on the development of the Ringerik Railway. There was only one thing that was unfortunate in the posts of the representative Kolberg, and that was when he talked about the economic centers, which were in Bergen and Oslo. There I think he should also take Trondheim, but unfortunately he forgot, and I forgive him for that. That's said very well, and it's done very well to get speed on the Ringerix track. I also register that SV is, and has been, very busy with the Ringeriksbahn, but unfortunately I cannot see many tracks after that after SV has been in government for eight years. I have to say that I was very happy when I saw the SSB's new up-to-date numbers today. Both the SV and the Green Party talk a lot about the bet. We see that the Green Party is up on the speaker's chair and is tightening its legs under the rapid expansion of the Ringeriks course, postponing the trasé elections, wanting to have new investigations, and it is delaying. We also see from SV, there has been no rapid progress in the planning and development of the railway. Today, however, SSB’s figure showed that last year it was 4.6 pst. multiple train travellers. It's over 70 million travelers for the first time. From December 2014 there are now more than a hundred trains running through Oslo every day, thanks to a new route model for the NSB, and it is gratifying that with the Progress Party and the Right in Government and supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, 2015 is called the ‘first major maintenance year’ by the Railway Agency. I'm proud of that. We're going to keep working to get the big maintenance run that we had to take over, and we still want full speed on the development of the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2811	I just want to calm the representative Kolberg, who was inside it with an ‘invisible hand’. This was probably the rule of action, which for a long time was represented by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. His time here is at least over now, so it should better be part of the case. Otherwise, I would like to agree entirely with the representative Rasmus Hansson that driving trains faster between Oslo and Bergen will mean that the route over Ringerijk and Hole must cost a little more and take a little more time. It also has to mean that when you're going to enter the Hønefoss station, for which the Center Party is going in, it will take some more time, but it's part of the social role that this path has. There are huge investments that are now going to be made on the railway track, and I expect that the department will have a diet-benefit assessment of it. Then I'm among those who think it should be questioned whether it's right to have a four-field road in relation to a two-field road on the road, when we're going to make such a big investment on the track. We have to expect that a good part of the transport between Hönefoss and Oslo will go on the road, and thus the need for road will be reduced. That's an important point, which I expect is that the relevant agencies and the Council of State are busy and will realize. In the case of the Åsa option, there was no confusion about it. The representative Hansson put a lot of emphasis on the Northern Tyrifjord wetlands system. It's also important to me, but it's a little special when the Green Party's representative doesn't mention the cultivated soil, the fat food soil that's in the area, and the enormous cultural values that are in addition to it. And when you're going through the area, you have to think about multiple considerations at the same time. This will mean that there will be environmental tunnels, that there will be bridges, to preserve these values that we're talking about. The centre party in Buskerud went out early and asked for cooperation between Vegvesenet and the Railway Agency. We had already finished talking in the summer of 2013 and are very pleased with the understanding that has been, and the job that has been done here by the Railway and Road Administration. It is an exemplary work that has been done, and a few to the start in 2018, need a local understanding, and then one must have respect for the natural values. If one does not get that respect for natural values, it will in practice mean postponement. That is why one must continue the spirit that has now come into this planning process, where one takes care of both the food soil, the cultural values and the Ramsar areas. It'll be expensive, but it's necessary. Finally, I would like to urge the representatives of the centre party to vote against the proposal from the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA, because the values that we have talked about here are to be respected through the planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2826	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2829	After the contributions of the representative of Hofstad Greece, I felt the need for just two things to make a brief remark. One is that she starts by criticising me for including the Moorax in the post and then she continues to record the timetable for Oslo and the railway maintenance in this case. In other words, she lives by the doctrine ‘do as I say, don’t do as I do’ — it’s okay to bring her into further debates. The second – since the representative of Hofstad Helleland is concerned with the issue of railway maintenance, and since she criticises the red-greens after eight years: I am one of the first to say that it is clearly good that railway maintenance is increasing. But I would recommend her to look at her own budgets, among other things. during the eight years in which the Right was placed in opposition. Then the alternative state budgets were delivered, where they combined for operation and maintenance cut in the post and had a total of €1.85 billion. kr less. That means increasing problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2838	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2852	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2859	I'll stick to the case, and that's pretty easy. These are two specific projects on which the Committee stands. It concerns the development and financing of R & D. 36 Slaughterhouse-Anne, and the cost framework for E6 Jakkuka-Klett-Sentervegen. The Committee would point out that today’s Småttekås – Årne is a bottleneck of rv. Thirty-six. The stretch is of low standard and has a large maturity. To this end, the Committee endorses the plan for the development and financing of the project, etc. 36 The Battle of the Year. The same applies to E6 Jakkoya–Klett–Sentervegen. The Committee is committed to the cost and governance framework, and we are also very pleased that this is being added to plant start-up in the autumn and that the project is expected to be open to traffic in 2018. So I think it's going to hold on to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2868	I'm not going to elaborate that much more. It's a unanimous attitude, and it's a good march signal for the government. Both sections of the road are important to get in place. In Trøndelag we now get the green light we need for Jakkoya-Klett-Sentervegen on E6, a stretch we drove last summer. Rv. 36 is a distance that I've also driven. It's a road that's bad. There have been many accidents, including deaths. That's why it's important that we get the road section repaired. One will have a better situation for drivers, a steady speed and a significant increase in road safety. This is one of the bomb projects where it was added up to have 100 pst. tolls. Today's government has accelerated the project, and we also have a government contribution to it, which means that one does not get as high a bomb tax as one would have had for a maintenance 100 pst. tolls. In addition, we refer to the possible consequences of the bomb reform, which means that one can have further lower tariffs. I am pleased that we are now making positive decisions so that we can get the projects started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2879	Rv. 36 on the route Småttekås – Årens is an important repair section. It's very bad standard, there's been several accidents on the route. If you put in place a system of interest-rate compensation, it also means that you can manage to reduce some of the toll costs. There is no doubt that as a FrP, I think this is a very expensive project, but it is a very important project, and it is a long wanted project locally. It is the county council in Telemark together with the municipalities in Mid-Telemark that wanted to get this project in place, and believes it is important to put it in place. That is why I am pleased that the government is now making sure that this important project comes into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2884	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2898	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2905	We're going to do this pretty easily. The Committee has examined proposals for amendments to, inter alia: the marriage law, on the power to treat invalid marriages. The proposal includes the approval of marriages which are invalid under the matrimonial law §§ 16 and 18a and Brutvigjingslova § 11, and the decision-making authority is assigned one or more county offices in all cases. Access to justice is assumed to be delegated to the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family. The Committee takes note of the objective of the legislative proposals, which are more consistent and effective in dealing with matters, by the fact that the same entity deals with all matters. We see the need for efficiency and the value of uniform treatment. The Committee notes that none of the hearing bodies objected to the proposal and that the proposal was supported by the county councillors and other relevant bodies. The Committee endorses the proposal unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2918	As the rapporteur pointed out, the Stortinget for treatment today has changed the marriage law and some other laws relating to marriage. The amendments concern who is to deal with issues relating to the approval of marriages which are not valid under Norwegian law. In the last two years, there have been 24 cases of invalidity under the marriage law. Although there are few cases, these are very important issues for those involved. The vast majority of cases also apply to couples where at least one of the parties is from abroad and knows Norwegian language, Norwegian legal code and Norwegian culture poorly. It is important that matters are dealt with in a consistent and effective manner and that the parties are properly serviced by the administration. In addition to caring for the interests of the couple, it is also important to take care of the interests of society. Most of the matters in this area are about marriages that have not been approved under the second paragraph of Section 18a of the Marriage Act, which is intended to prevent coercion. It is therefore important to have a good and competent procedure, which ensures that all marriages we approve in Norway are voluntary. Issues concerning the recognition of invalid marriages are currently being dealt with at a high level in the administration. The cases under the Marriage Act are dealt with by the Directorate, with complaints to the Department, while the cases under the Bretvigjingslaw are dealt with by the Ministry and handled by the King of State Council. The proposal adopted today is that all cases of subsequent recognition of invalid marriages should be dealt with by the State instead. The county offices already have many matrimonial tasks, as they have shown that they are doing well. It has also been built up a good and solid union environment in marriage in Bufdir, which can handle complaints that may come. Today’s changes will lead to uniform procedures, more efficient handling of these cases and a good meeting with the public for those who have a case under those provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2935	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2949	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2956	Today, we simplify the everyday lives of the volunteers who depend on the funds collected. The size is, as you know, a legislative assembly. From time to time, it seems that we forget the fact that, in addition to making laws, we can also remove laws as legislators. It's enough to look at a fresh book that Norway's laws today. Compared to a few years ago, we see that this is a book that has about the same facility for putting on as a man of his best age. Therefore, it is gratifying that we clear and abolish a law again and again, especially as today, when there is a law where there is a consensus that it does not work as the intention was in the law's foreman. The law on recording collections has neither had a positive effect in enhancing the confidence of the serious collection actors nor was the intended obstacle to unprofessional operators, which was intended. The only obstacle to the law has been a bureaucratic obstacle to volunteering. A law that doesn't work is a law that we don't need. I therefore look forward to hearing the arguments as to why an ineffective law is proposed to be maintained, as the Labour Party is considering this matter. Well, you can be happy with the laws and regulations, but here it's a whole business, for example. represented by Freewill Norway, which welcomes the removal of legislation. They do because today we simplify the conditions of volunteering. Those who rely on collected funds to operate at the level they are doing today see that their activities are better facilitated by the removal of this law. Simplification is also applauded by the Collection Control Foundation and the Norwegian Collection Council, both of whom believe that this ensures freedom of organisation. The serious actors in the collection market depend on the population, i.e. your and my trust. They also depend on organisations maintaining very high trustworthiness. Impaired credibility or unprofessional behaviour will eliminate the income base of volunteering in a short time. So this is in itself a guarantee that the industry through self-justice, knowledge raising and exchange of experience will work continuously to ensure that the industry as a whole does not appear unprofessional. The concerns related to the removal of this law come from the Lotteries and the Foundation, the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the PST and Økokrim as well as the Police Directorate. There is therefore a need for public control, despite the fact that the law has not had the intended effect. Certain concerns have been raised about the possibility that some will be able to use non-governmental organisations as a scaffold to raise funds for terrorist financing or to money laundering. As the law is today, it doesn't seem like it's against this. So there's no good reason to keep it either. However, I am pleased that the government shares the concern that there may be any abuse of non-governmental organisations for dishonest purposes and that the government will therefore consider measures to counter this. I am also pleased that we are now looking at how to facilitate the registration of the collection in the Register of Liberalities, and that this is taken into account in the work done to help make more use of this register. So there are several good reasons to enjoy the removal of the collection registration law. We remove a law there is agreement if there is no function. The Government shall consider measures to prevent the misuse of voluntary organisations for collection purposes and we shall simplify their daily volunteering so that they can use more time and resources for their own purposes, rather than serving bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e2975	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for handling the matter through the Committee. When the Act on a registration scheme for collection actions was dealt with at Stortinget in 2007, the background was that there were irregularities recorded in some collection actors. The aim was to strengthen confidence in the serious collection organisations. Now that's the games to the right of the law. Today's law isn't perfect, but it doesn't mean that the solution is to remove the law without there being any alternative. That's abdicating. The proposal we are dealing with today is about whether we have a law that takes two aspects seriously: Do consumers have proper protection when it comes to collections – are we sure that the money we give away will arrive at what we require, and is the administrative cost within an acceptable framework? Does the law ensure that there is confidence in an important source of income for voluntary organisations? The Norwegian people contribute to the collection actions, it's great greed. But people expect the funds to go for the purpose. The law provides clear guidance on the proportion that should go to administration, and it has been – as it says in the case – an important contribution to transparency and awareness of this. We agree with the volunteer, which believes that the Voluntary Register can replace the scheme with its own lottery register. But the work of developing the Voluntary Register is at snail speed. There is nothing in the matter that we have received from the government, about when the Voluntary Register has been upgraded, so that they can take over the job. It shows that the time has not come to repeal the law. The second is the issues addressed by the justice sector in its consultation. We need a law that prevents collections from contributing to terrorist financing. They say that the self-regulation proposed to replace today’s legislation must be seen as insufficient to meet the challenges posed by the use of collection actions for terrorist financing. The Workers' Party believes that there is reason to listen to it. Many are involved in collections and several of them have been included in the list that the Collection Control compiles of collections which should not be supported. The Oppland Arbeiderblad newspaper has, in a number of articles, put the spotlight on a sector of highly problematic employment and routines. In its consultation opinion, Økokrim refers to a case from the Vestfold police district, where five people who had collected 25 million in a year — from May 2012 to May 2013 — were convicted. kr to children in Eastern Europe, and only 0,5 pst. went for the purpose. Ecocrim says that there is reason to believe that there are such situations in several districts. There are fundamental and heavy objections arising from the PST, the Økokrim and the Ministry of Justice. Norwegian collections are used for terrorist financing, and heavy trade unions strongly warn against making the proposed changes. With the debates we have had on terror and the need for enforcement, it is alarming that this is not addressed more actively by the government. If the government actually takes it seriously, there would be some alternative actions visible, not just a reference to the Ministry of Justice looking at this. It's quite inconvenient. The Labour Party sees that there is a need to make changes to today's law, but the solution is not to wind up the law without thinking about how we will meet the challenges that have been made visible in the case. The Labour Party therefore proposes that the government should submit a proposal on how to prevent Norwegian collection actions from being used for terrorist financing, before the Stortinget takes a decision on the repeal of the Act. I include this proposal as a minority in the Committee, the Labour Party, has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3003	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3006	There is a broad consensus that the law on recording collections has not contributed to increasing trust between donor and collector. The collection register is little known to the population and has had adverse and uninformed consequences for the registered organisations, while organisations that have chosen not to register have been able to operate freely, without public attention. I am pleased that an overall committee is pleased that the consultation round has listened to the scepticism of the voluntary sector for registration, that there is consensus that this will be bureaucratic and that it will probably not catch up with unprofessional actors either. Collections of funds are very important to finance the activities of non-governmental organisations at both local, national and international level in a wide range of areas. Therefore, facilitating the collection of funds by non-governmental organisations is an important contribution to increasing the income opportunities of organisations. This helps to strengthen the autonomous and independent role of voluntary organisations and gives greater legitimacy to the work carried out by organisations. By repealing the collection registration law, the government removes unnecessary legislation and opens up arrangements for the control of collections through private organisation. I note that an overall committee perceives that the work of the Foundation's Collection Control is valuable and the best way to maintain and increase trust in the collection work of the organisations. In order to alert donors of organisations to which attention should be paid, the Collection Control has been established, irrespective of the collection registration law. This has helped to focus attention on potential unprofessional actors and has led to increased attention to the work of the Collection Control. I am sure that the organisations will take action on their own basis to safeguard the interests of the donors and to ensure that the funds collected are used in line with the stated purpose. In the consultation round, the recording of collections in the Register of Liberalities was proposed as a measure to contribute to increased transparency and access to information on the collections of non-governmental organisations. In the light of the considerations mentioned above, a voluntary registration scheme was proposed. The obligation to register in the Register of Liberalities is not considered to be relevant. This will limit the freedom of organisation and impose more bureaucracy on organisations, without evidence that it will have a significant impact on unprofessional operators. However, there is a broad political consensus that the Register of Freedoms is to be used by public authorities. The Ministry is actively working to increase the use of the Register of Freedoms as a tool for coordination and simplification. In this context, the re-use of data reported by non-governmental organisations as conditions for the receipt of public support, including the statutes, annual accounts and annual reports, is central. These are information that both public authorities and private actors will be able to use for different purposes and that could contribute to increased transparency and access to information on the collections of non-governmental organisations. In this context, the Ministry considers it appropriate to see the proposal for a voluntary registration of collections in conjunction with the ongoing work to increase the use of the Register of Liberalities. In order to address the threats identified by the misuse of funds for terrorist financing, the government will assess targeted actions. Abuse of voluntary organisations for terrorist financing differs significantly from other types of collection-related crime, as it is particularly important to detect this at an early stage in order to avert the acts. Law on the recording of collections does not help to prevent the misuse of collections for terrorist financing. In view of this, the Ministry recommends that the proposal for the repeal of the law on the registration of collections be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3025	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3028	I have a question for the Council of State on terrorist financing and the clear advice that both the PST and the Ecokrim have made: does the Council of State disagree with institutions such as the PST and the Ecokrim when they ask for the law to continue to exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3033	We are in good contact with the different institutions about the situation, but it is also the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is responsible for assessing targeted actions, not least the follow-up to the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force to combat the abuse of voluntary organisations’ collection for terrorist financing. A new national risk assessment on money laundering and terrorist financing shall also be completed during 2016. A dedicated contact forum for the coordination of national anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures has also been established and, as part of this work, the targeted actions that can be put in place to prevent abuse of the collection of terrorist financing by non-governmental organisations are also assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3038	So it's going to be a year before you have any kind of opinion about how to deal with these terrorist threats. Why is it not that you get parallel in this and wait to repeal the law until you have the measures that the Council of State is now talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3043	As I said in my post, this law has not had any effect in combating the abuse of the collections of non-governmental organisations for terrorist financing. And then, on that basis, there is no basis for maintaining this law in view of all the other negative effects of this law on non-governmental organisations – with increased bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3049	I have to stay at what the Council of State now says and repeats: the law has had no effect. This means that the Minister of Culture will review the clear recommendations made by both Økokrim and PST in their consultation responses. I have read the answers to the hearing, and they are quite precise. On what basis and what is the knowledge that makes the Council of State say what she's doing in this room now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3056	I said in my speech that to meet these threats to money collection, which can be misused for terrorist financing, the government will assess targeted actions. And that's how, as I said, this law does not help prevent collections from being misused for terrorist financing. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice and Defence, as responsible for assessing targeted actions in response to the FATF recommendations to combat this abuse, will take various types of action. It is a continuous work that the government naturally follows up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3061	It does not seem that more people are interested in asking the Council of State about this matter. The answer is no more precise if the Council of State repeats for the third time that it has written this into a proposition. My question is: what is the knowledge base of the Council of State to review the PST and the clear recommendations of Ecocrim in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3068	It is not that only the Minister of Culture has decided that this law will no longer work. This is after a broad assessment and political treatment throughout the government, and it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence, with the Minister of Justice, who is responsible for just being able to assess targeted measures, which have a better impact than anyone would think could.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3073	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3078	I would like to add some comments to the comments of the representative Aasrud. I think that for the Right, it's probably so much about trusting the volunteer as trusting that everything can be regulated. I notice that there is talk of a legal text requiring how much percent is used for administration, and you have to have different formulations to make sure that the money goes for the purpose. I think that those who work on a voluntary basis and who depend on, among other things, the funds collected to make the business go around are occupied by that very thing. They are concerned with least use for administration and as much as possible for the purpose. They're busy trusting the population to get money the next time they call, or the next time they send a letter. So they're the ones who make sure the money goes for the purpose. The lack of desire, perhaps, to trust in volunteering amazes me somewhat. So the representative Aasrud also said that today's law is not perfect. No, that's exactly what's a little bit of the nucleus of removing this law. It's not just that it's not perfect. This law is ineffective, and then it seems a little strange. The examples of unprofessional behaviour developed by the representative were gruesome and gross, but everything has happened under today's law. That shows the point -- that this law has no function. It may be real enough to have a proposal for a new law and argue for it and justify it, but why one at the same time sits on the backs to remove an ineffective law is difficult for me to understand. I experience it more as either blind belief in law and regulation, or aversion to trusting — in this case — the volunteering of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3089	It is easy to agree with the claim that today's law does not work properly. But if you have a problem, you try to solve it, not to create an even bigger problem. There are several things that the Workers' Party is concerned about in this matter. First of all, it's consumer protection, when you give money, you have to know what they're going to do, and that the money comes out. The second is to combat terrorist financing, where we see major counter-arguments from both the Ministry of Justice, the PST and the Ecocrime, pointing out that this will weaken the work of just detecting and combating terrorist financing through collection. Then we believe that the Voluntary Register could have taken such responsibility, and believe that it would be unbureaucratic, easy to deal with and an effective way to exercise such control. I'm very surprised when I hear the unscrupulous response of the Council of State to the challenges of Rigmor Aasrud in the change of lines, because there is no answer to either the assessments that have been made or how it can be claimed that this work will strengthen the fight against terrorist financing. We do not believe what we are doing in this matter because we are pleased with the laws and regulations, which Kårstein is trying to make as, but precisely to ensure important concerns such as consumer safety and to have an effective fight against terrorist financing. When we know that it will take one year, perhaps, before the new measures are in place – and let’s hope that it will be possible to work quickly – it will take a long time before effective measures are put in place, all the time we know that the Council of State, together with its government colleagues, could have done a great deal of work on an ongoing basis to strengthen the law that we already have, and to strengthen the work on terrorist financing. For this reason, the challenge facing the Council of State is how to remove this law will be part of and strengthen that work – to secure consumers, to secure organisations and to ensure the fight against terrorist financing? At least it hangs in the loose air, because we see that what is proposed here, which is likely to be adopted, will actually be involved and weaken that very work. I would like to challenge the Council of State to respond to: How does she believe that this will actually strengthen the fight against terrorist financing through collection?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3100	I'll continue a little bit where we left off in the line change. In the proposition on page 6, the Council of State writes in the matter she has sent to Stortinget, the following: ‘The justice sector calls for increased control of money collection and believes that a mandatory registration system should be reviewed. Among other things, reference is made to the serious and increasing threat associated with the collection of money for terrorist financing and/or terrorism.» So the Council of State says in its statement that this is a matter that the entire government is behind. Then I have to repeat my question: What concrete action is the Council of State – or the government, then – going to take action beyond thinking about and thinking about something in 2016? The second question is on the Voluntary Register, which is also an important register in this context. A work was started in 2012, where it was supposed to be an upgrade to the Register of Volunteers, and the assessments made in the case relating to the Register of Volunteers, we support far on the way. But how far have you come? When can we expect to see a voluntary register that can meet the indications and expectations of non-governmental organisations? And when can it possibly be used in this case? There should be questions that could be answered when you put forward a bill that says that you should lie down and say that we did not find any other way to do this. Then one must have thought through some alternatives, at least when the recordings are as clear as they are in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3112	Firstly, the PST does not have any comments on the repeal of the law, but they are asking for mandatory registration and are asking for this to be assessed. It's something other than saying that they're against repealing the law. The interests of donors will, of course, be safeguarded by private organisation under the auspices of, among others. this collection control, which I understand is a broad consensus that has worked and works, e.g. through this OBS list. The initiative has been taken independently of the repeal of the law. In the case of the Voluntary Register, I believe it works very well. We're working on making it work optimally. For example: Voluntaryness Norway and the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee have received grants for the work of integrating the membership register of non-governmental organisations into the Voluntary Register. This integration solution will include, for example: provide organisations with an easier way for local laws to register and update information in the Register of Freedoms. I think the Voluntary Register is going to be a key register in the future. The work currently under way will improve the quality of the data contained in the Register of Liberalities. It will also be positive in view of the increased use of the Register of Freedoms in the future. There were delays in the project in 2014 due to the lack of ICT resources in the Brønnøysund registries, but we have now ensured that this project is given priority. And the Brønnøsund registers have also announced that the project is planned to be completed by the end of the year, and that the solution will be ready for use in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3123	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3138	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3145	I would first like to thank the Committee for its overall support for the vote. The law review we are now dealing with is a natural consequence of a new digital reality and follows up the intentions of previous law also for new platforms. Documents that were printed on paper and collected on a consistent basis are now only available digitally and must be secured for archives. Sound and video have had a similar development. The Internet has also become a major channel of communication and, in addition to having taken over much communication from other platforms and channels, the Internet has in many ways become a daily up-to-date mirror for today’s Norway. Thus, through the so-called harvesting of material from the Internet, an important material for future research and documentation will be ensured. This makes it necessary to adapt the legislation to this reality. The Committee supports the harmonisation of definitions between legislative acts in line with developments, and in this way one can also discharge legal obligations and rights. Speaking of rights – the protection of privacy is another challenge that is reinforced by an increased scope of collection. All that has been collected has been published, but it is important that there are good procedures to follow up the individual’s right to protection, not least because it is not necessarily the person himself who has approved the publication, nor that it is essential for what needs to be documented. It is very good that this has been done in the matter through a separate mention that will deal with applications for a clause and deletion. The Committee also points out that it is now important that the necessary amendments to the rules on the matter be followed up. This bill provides us with a platform- and media-neutral law that ensures the basis for future research and documentation. In any form of publication, digital basic material shall be provided and the National Library shall provide the necessary security and good practices in the material delivered. The Committee trusts that this will be followed up in a good manner and therefore supports the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3154	It is important for a nation and for a human being to know their history in order to better understand their past and their present. Access to historical sources is essential for this to be possible. Therefore, the government has presented a proposal for a modernised and up-to-date obligation delivery law. The Liability Act ensures that publicly available documents, such as: books, newspapers and broadcast material are preserved for posterity, so that they can be used as source material for research and documentation. The law applies to documents in all formats, both font, sound and image. The delivered material is retained in the National Library collections. This is our cultural heritage and our common memory. In the past, books, newspapers and social debates were only published on paper. These documents tell us how literature, society and vocabulary have evolved. Today more and more are being published on the Internet. We need to ensure that this material is also taken care of for researchers of both the present and the future. The amendment clarifies that digital documents on the Internet are subject to delivery obligations. The National Library is granted the right to collect online documents automatically. Today, the National Library collects a selective selection of Norwegian material available to everyone on the Internet. This is done after contacting the individual owner of the website, which is both impractical and uneconomic. The proposal allows the National Library to collect automatically from the Internet. This will ensure that all material to be supplied is actually part of the National Library collections. It is a practical, efficient and economic way of fulfilling the aims of the law. When events that have a major impact on the nation, it is important to take care of the sources that describe and debate the events. After the terrorist acts on 22 July 2011, a lot was published on the Internet that was not collected. This is unfortunate for current and future research. The proposed changes will help to ensure that we do not get large gaps in national memory and that the digital heritage is not lost. Furthermore, we propose that the National Library be given the right to require delivery of the digital base material in addition to the publication format. This means that a publisher who publishes a book on paper must provide a digital file with the content of the book in addition to the paperbook. In this way, the National Library does not need to digitise afterwards what is already available in digital form. I am pleased that there is broad agreement on the main content of the legislative amendment. The Committee highlights important points in its attitude. I want to pay particular attention to these in the further work on regulations implementing the law. The Committee points out that the main challenge is to safeguard privacy when digital material is collected and made available for research and documentation, but that challenges to rightholders are also updated in such a collection. It is important for the government to find good solutions to preserve and make available cultural heritage, while ensuring privacy in a good way. That is why, in certain cases, we are proposing to open the way for the clauseing or deletion of collected, privacy-sensitive material. The Government also proposes to set up a complaint panel to deal with the refusal of an application for the waiver and deletion of personal data. Work is already in progress on revising the regulations of the obligation delivery law. Consideration will be given to regulating the use of the delivered material. The use of network material collected will be regulated by copyright law. The design of the regulation will take place in dialogue with the copyright organisations, and the regulation will be sent to consultation in the usual way. I believe that the proposed legislative changes will lead to a better preservation of the digital cultural heritage and ensure that we receive a rich and exciting source of research and documentation in the future. In addition, the amendments will provide for a more efficient and less bureaucratic delivery process, which frees resources both for the supplier and not least for the national library as the recipient of the material.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3184	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3190	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3198	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 8, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. Eight. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a separate establishment of a regionally elected level in the capital area. The aim is to merge the minimum Oslo and Akershus County Municipality, possibly also larger parts of the Capital Region. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, together with the County Council of Oslo and Akershus, shall have a specific responsibility for this process.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3224	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The tax collection shall remain in the municipalities and the Stortinget therefore asks the government to stop the process of publicising the local tax collection.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Communities shall have the right to terminate the establishment of new private schools which are not religious or educational alternatives, or otherwise incorporated in today’s private school law.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘There are no changes in the responsibilities of facilities, work and training trips, permanent work arrangements and the TT system.’ [[VTA and VTO]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assume that secondary education, public transport and dental health are to continue as municipal tasks and cannot be delegated to individual municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3256	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the principle of generalist municipality is maintained by the fact that all municipalities and county councils have an equivalent responsibility and the sea is responsible for determining whether a task is to be resolved by the municipality of Sjål, or through cooperation with other municipalities/communities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks that changes in the state structure be based on local wishes and carried out by voluntary means.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an investigation showing the actual organisation of regional government activities, which assesses this organisation against the need to coordinate its regional activity and which promotes proposals for solutions that provide the enterprises with regional boundaries following the division of counties.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3410	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3420	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3521	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3531	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3539	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Magne Rommetveit on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to maintain the Norwegian reservation for the inclusion of the third EU Postal Directive in the EEA Agreement. The majority opposes the implementation of the third EU postal directive in Norwegian law.’ The Green Party and the Socialist Left have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e3565	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting to ensure the day-to-day distribution of newspapers with the transmission from the printer to the subscriber.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4455	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4468	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4482	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4538	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4548	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4695	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4705	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4713	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the route to the Ringeriksbahn does not affect the protected wetlands of the Northern Tyrifjord wetland system or is contrary to the Ramsar Secretariat recommendations for the area.’; The voting boards showed that 95 votes were cast against the proposal and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.40.51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4734	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4739	There are some people here who may have voted incorrectly, and then someone has not registered their vote. It will be decided by the Storting by a new vote. Let's do the voting one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4755	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to continue to plan a number of trajectory options, including the Åsa option, in the further planning process for the Ring Reich Railway, in order to ensure the best possible basis for decision-making in order to achieve a fast and good rail system and to take care of important natural areas.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4887	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4897	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4906	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals on how to prevent Norwegian collections being used for terrorist financing before the Stortinget can decide whether to repeal the collection register law.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4941	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4954	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e4968	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e5115	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e5125	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-09.ana.ud1729e5147	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
