ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e28	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e53	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 4 hours and 40 minutes, excluding lines and 3 minutes. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 80 minutes, Right 70 minutes, Advance Party 40 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 20 minutes, Left 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. It is proposed that the change of the Rules of Procedure be arranged as follows: six replies will be made to the submissions of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and four replies to the submissions of the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders and other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e64	It is tempting to say that it is good that sometimes, like the Financial Committee, the Grandfather also notes that things can take some time. That is also an example of this debate. I thank the Storting for the patience with the financial debate and the subsequent discussions in the technical committees. However, no one – not even the President of the Grand Duchy or the Chairman of the Committee – can bow to political realities that have existed during this debate and the negotiations on the budget. When the budget was presented, I felt there was reason to draw out three main headings around the situation we had early in October. It was an increasing unemployment, it was a climate crisis – which is getting closer and closer – and it was a refugee situation that called our attention. After we were presented with the budget, there was also an additional number for this budget, which was almost 10 billion. NOK in increased expenditure, which was also to be covered. After that, a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has concluded an agreement relating to the refugee situation, an agreement that is part of this situation. So one can safely say that a lot has happened in the two months that have gone by since the budget was presented in October. I therefore think there is reason to recall that in such a difficult situation, we have not spent more than three weeks negotiating a budget and a position, which we can promote today. The low oil price has increased the unemployment rate. It is serious and requires vigorous action. Industrial change is now going through, slightly different from other periods of recession, for example: the financial crisis we had. Firstly, it concerns those who have lost their jobs particularly now, EEA immigrants and Nordics with a high level of competence. In particular, there are people in the field of engineering and ICT, mechanics, etc., who are fortunately skilled in the labour market. That is why the government has presented a budget with a strong stimulus to activity in fiscal policy. It's necessary. To date, I have not seen very many professional economists or others criticising the use of oil money for the next year. Then you can discuss beyond next year, but for next year they all, most of them, believe that the budget impulse is important to prevent increased unemployment. And then we're going to say that the picture is in no way full black, either nutritionally or geographically. The construction industry may look forward to a better year next year and year after due to new investments in transport infrastructure. The next year, Sverdrup will also be developing, with a great deal of work. The construction industry is going a little worse, but not at a much near as bad as it was during the financial crisis. In addition — and this is important — there are major geographical differences. Southern and Western countries are hit hard, while other parts of the country are actually experiencing falling unemployment. This calls for an action-oriented policy in the current situation in the first row, with emphasis on several areas of action, increased apprenticeship grants and more places of study, in particular to help young people. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government's proposals for the state budget and the budget agreement between the cooperation parties prioritise such actions, as well as a record-breaking commitment to higher education, research and innovation. The weak dollar rate is the main factor in enabling the transition from the oil industry to new industries to continue. We all agree, from the OECD to the SSB and the Ministry of Finance. The krone price has declined significantly in the last two years, as oil investment has fallen and the outlook for the Norwegian economy is weaker. This has significantly improved the competitiveness of the export industry. Fortunately, this is how many unemployed workers in the oil industry have been employed in other industries. The transition from the oil industry to new industries is in full swing. It is a lot thanks to our autonomous currency and a moderate salary settlement, which has not eaten up the advantage that the Swedish krona has given to the Norwegian industry. In addition to the urgent measures to help young and most vulnerable people in the labour market, we need long-term action on knowledge, climate and innovation. All of this corresponds well to the budgetary agreement – to which the Christian People's Party has joined and participated in negotiations. We get a greener tax system that promotes more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly choices. A reduction in corporate tax is necessary to promote increased investment and thus more jobs in the long term. There is also a need to reduce the tax on labour. The budget agreement gives a stronger focus on knowledge – everything from the impact of the Christian People's Party on early schooling, with more teachers in primary school, on renewable energy research and on the commercialisation of research through FORNY2020. Not least, we must continue the development of transport that the Christian People's Party and the three other cooperation parties have begun, and in particular in the context of green transport measures. Assistance has been an important part of the work we have had on the budget. And it's a cut in aid. At the same time, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I am pleased with the result we have achieved in terms of both numbers and devices. There has been a lot of debate around this part of the budget. I am pleased that we can say from the Christian People's Party that with the arrangement and the change that have come into the budget, we will have a budget for this part for next year where we stand very well. On the environment too, there has been a lot of debate about the budget and what has happened afterwards. We now see a tendency that everyone says that someone has to do something. It often turns out that these ‘some’ are some others: it’s another sector; it’s another country; it’s going to be a different level — at all, everything pointing at yourself becomes less important. What might point to others becomes more important to highlight. The cooperation parties have now agreed on an offensive plan for the follow-up of the Green Tax Commission. There are changes in the current budget, but I will dare to say that this is going to be one of the areas in the future on which there will be the most debate – the instruments we are willing to use, and what we do when we see that this also affects us. That debate has already begun. I am also pleased that we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, have had the effect of increasing the age pensioners who have absolutely no advice. Those are the lone minimum pensioners. In addition to the follow-up to the cooperation agreement, this is also a social balancing budget. We are pleased that we have made a great effort in the area of violence against children. We've seen that in the last few days is very necessary. We've put in place 100 earmarked millions of health sisters. It'll give you a good boost. We are also very pleased with changes in the rural profile of this budget. It is an entire country to be used. There has been some noise around the negotiations, but I would say that based on the assumptions we had this year, with very demanding backgrounds both internationally and nationally, I think this is a negotiated budget that responds very well to the challenges we face, both at home and outside. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e103	Let me first congratulate the chairman of the committee on getting into port with the negotiations. It's a little bit overtime, but at least we'll get a budget for 2016. In summarising the budgetary agreement, there are many ways in which there is a history of a lack of prioritisation and of a much higher use of oil than what, for example, is. the head of the government’s own expert committee considers sustainable. Somewhat in the background of the news that has dominated, about civil budget chaos and who is responsible for this year's innovation, the airline fee, there are 127,000 people who attend Christmas meetings without a job. Unfortunately, there is very little to suggest that the settlement parties have been particularly concerned with those people when they have been sitting and negotiating. At least there's nothing in the agreement that points to it. My question to the chairman of the committee will then be: with the high use of money that the government has invested for the third consecutive year, and for which the Christian People's Party and the Left once again give the majority, why are not measures against the highest number of unemployed over 20 years of age given priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e110	I can confirm that the issue of leave has not been important for the cooperation parties. It's been very important. I also feel that the starting point of the budget was just to ensure that we have an incentive in the Norwegian economy that means that we both have short-term measures through a separate package of measures, and measures in the long term that are not least about better conditions for business, better tax arrangements and a very strong focus on higher education and research. In addition, this has been reinforced by the budgetary agreement. So I'm going to reject that we haven't been busy with that side of the budget. It's actually been a top priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e115	Unemployment is on the way up in Norway, unfortunately. When we read the budget agreement, we were very surprised, because there was a tax tightening that was targeted at people who lost their jobs. Norway has had a tradition of raising ourselves together, and we work together between businesses, trade unions and countries and find different arrangements to get people through it as well as possible. One scheme has been the termination benefit scheme. There have been a large number of men who have lost their jobs for about 60 years, who have been able to receive termination benefits paid by employers over a period of time free of tax, a maximum of 80,000 kroner. My question to the Christian People's Party is: why is it a goal to tax those who lose their jobs, harder when the unemployment is on the way up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e120	It is such that this termination fee has been tax-free. Then we've all had a common goal that different sources of income should be taxed roughly the same. Then I believe that a termination fee is to be regarded as part of the salary and should then be taxed. Then you can discuss whether the termination fee should take into account that there is now a tax on the same consideration. It is a discussion that I am more than willing to take, but on the basis of principle, I believe that what appears to be income for the individual, should also be taxed like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e125	It's beginning to become a familiar story that the Left and Christian People's Party celebrates defeat as victory. This year, there's a billion-dollar cut in aid. It seems the center parts are satisfied with. Last year there was another matter that was high on the agenda. It's a little bit forgotten now. That's a little strange, because the changes don't come into effect until New Year's. Then the changes in the child plugin for disabled dependants turn in. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there are 367 families affected on 1 January. On average, they lose the families NOK 29 000 per year. Of these, 154 families lose more than $30,000 a year. What does the Christian People's Party have to say to the families hit by a cut in a child supplement Christian People's Party has previously celebrated to have saved?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e132	To take the help section first: I recognize that it is a cut. I'm not going to stand here and pretend like anything else. I also think very many people see that the cut has got a completely different device, and the amount is quite different from before and what was suggested by the government. In the case of the disability and child supplement, it was an important part of the budget work last year. That meant about 90 pst. the child supplement was preserved. But we said it shouldn't be that you have to get more out of disability pension plus child supplement than a normal worker gets. I believe – not least in the situation we now have – that we cannot have schemes that favour those who are not in work. I think everyone sees that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e139	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e143	I remember well the years in the early 1990s -- moms and dads who lost their jobs, some in the neighborhood who had to move because they couldn't keep the house, the uncertainty and the drama that we noticed very well, also we who were really just kids that time. Since we grew up, we've basically been free to think about unemployment in particular. There was someone who couldn't stand through school, maybe because it became too theoretical, maybe because there wasn't any learning space expected. The risk of falling out completely is well known. Many of us have just engaged us politically to do something about it. But we've grown up in a reality where it was based on the fact that if you take a reasonable education, there's a job. We've almost taken for granted, we, that we need it. That is exactly what -- the feeling that you have a place, that you are a contributor and an inclusive part of society -- is absolutely crucial for most of us, and absolutely essential for us to be able to take care of a societal model of trust, cohesion and a willingness to solve tasks together. Therefore, unemployment that is allowed to be fixed has so much higher costs than the short-term fall in GDP. Therefore, nothing can be more important to a government than to fight with beaks and claws against increasing unemployment. It's a risky thing to predict what the future will look like. However, we now experience that Norway has become a different country with negative signs. After the financial crisis, we had Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Now we might have higher leave than Germany just a few months in time. While unemployment falls in Europe, it rises with us. Last week, the new AKU came. Now there are 127 000 unemployed in Norway, showing the figures – 40,000 more than in May 2014. It's essentially in the South-West it's happening. The seriousness of this has disappeared a little in the autumn’s major debates on the refugee situation. But how we manage to solve this will be absolutely crucial to how well we succeed in the great integration work ahead of us: if we can produce enough values, if we can integrate enough people into our working life, and not least if we can do it in such a way that we maintain a work life marked by seriousness, orderly relationships, high skills, good organisation – all that has done for people in Norway to be completely at the top of the world in terms of productivity. That's why it's so worrying that right now, when we're in the middle of this situation, we have a government that's working against organized working life, and that's chronically passive and underestimating the increasing unemployment. This is not about placing the responsibility for the oil price drop on the government. I sometimes belong to representatives of the government parties to interpret criticism of the government's handling in that way. But let me say that the government has equal responsibility for the oil price that the Workers' Party had for the greatest financial crisis since the 1930s. What the government is responsible for is how this meets. In the 1990s, income policy cooperation became a key source of success. I believe that it is almost impossible to overestimate the importance of tripartite cooperation for our adaptability – that we have representative parties who can talk together and find sensible solutions based on a common sense of reality. When the workers side accepts zero settlement for Norwegian competitiveness, we politicians also have to stand up and take responsibility through budgetary policy. Now we see that there is uncertainty about how the very expansive budget that is being adopted today is going to affect the crown price when it comes into force from the New Year. At the same time, within the framework of responsibility, we need to be able to prioritise the measures that reduce unemployment, both in the short and long term, and to help the businesses and individuals in the middle of it. We look for the answers in the government's budget, but we don't find them, and after the conciliation, it hasn't been much better. I would like to pay tribute to the Left and the Christian People's Party for making better efforts in some areas, for example. assistance, collective and railway. But it seems like the settlement parties, when they've been negotiating, haven't been occupied by all the people who go into Christmas without a job or with a notice of leave. There are no new measures in place. On the contrary, we see that it is being cut, partly heavily, in what the government has presented as a package of measures for employment. We see a budgetary settlement where the most prominent thing that unites the four cooperation parties is the willingness to spend far more money than what is sustainable in the long term. This year, as last year, the parties are in line to waive responsibility for a new levy introduced in the final turn of budgetary negotiations to make the calculation go up. Everyone has their little victories, but no one takes responsibility for the whole thing. Norway has to solve major problems in the coming years. Creating new jobs, a good welfare offer for an ageing population, a green infrastructure and using low-carbon technologies in all sectors of industry have one thing in common: it places great demands on skills and on the seriousness of working life. Sometimes I belong both to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, claiming that the Labour Party's response is only about several measures. They can't have read our budget. Yes, we propose several action places, several places to study, specialised school places – building skills in the workplace. We think it's important. And yes, we criticize the government for petty billionaires' fight against those who lose their jobs. But our alternative budget is probably so much about giving Norwegian companies in South West jobs, about putting people into jobs to develop new climate technologies, about making it easier for those who have good ideas, to succeed as entrepreneurs. We would very much like to be able to agree to several of those proposals today. I initially talked about how to succeed in employment and how to succeed in integration are related. We have an asylum settlement that will certainly be debated beyond the day. But it is also a fact that very many people have come to Norway with a real need for protection, and they are going to stay here for a long time. There are many people who talk nice about how we have to manage to do the right priorities now, provide Norwegian training, get integration started and people settle. But we're worried. Large sums are used in the additional number of the police, UDI and rigging of the receiver. It's important. But out in all the municipalities of the country, where the integration work is actually to be done, where the rapporteurs fold up their sleeves and do everything they can, where those who contribute voluntarily struggle – there is no drag help to get from the government. We initially proposed to strengthen the municipal framework by 3 billion. kr to allow newly elected municipal government representatives across the country to develop welfare instead of planning for cuts, which is the reality of municipal governments throughout the country. Now we're proposing nearly a billion more dollars to the municipalities to do the big integration and settlement task they've been given. These are also priorities that we would like to see the bulk of the population join, rather than tax cuts once again on the priority list. There are some things a government should measure on. A fundamental objective is whether it strengthens or weakens the generational accounts, whether it puts future generations in a better or worse position to meet the challenges they face. There's nothing surprising about a bourgeois government cutting the tax rate. They've made a choice on that, and they're doing it. Community revenue is weakened because they believe that this is the correct answer for Norway. There we disagree. It's an honest thing. But then one would think that the income cuts to the state were followed by cuts in expenses, as one would expect from a bourgeois government. But that's not what's happening. The revenue side is weakened, but the expenditure side is still increasing, and it is increasing rapidly. It has been a well-known civil virtue that expenditure growth should not be higher than the growth of the economy. We complied with it in government, with one exception, and that was the financial crisis budget in 2009. I understand that a civil government must also increase expenditure in a period when we accept very many refugees. But the growth is not unique for next year. It's been the fasit since the government joined. The expenditure side is increased, the revenue side is weakened and, in order to balance the budgets, the oil money is phased in at a record pace. It's the ones who come after us, who have to do the priority job that this government doesn't have. That's the really eye-catching thing. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e181	The representative, Marthinsen, has taken up the proposals behind the Workers' Party. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e186	I listened with great interest to Marianne Marthinsen's contributions, and I have read the Workers' Party's alternative budget – that is absolutely true. What strikes me is that the Workers' Party adds up to a quite significant growth in public expenditure. Short-term measures are being taken while increasing taxes and taxes by over 10 billion. kr. Then my question becomes to Marthinsen: is this compatible with the challenges that Norwegian economy is now facing, where we really need to stimulate private business in order to get growth and prosperity and get through the transformation phase that we are now experiencing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e193	It's nice to hear that the representative Limi has read our budget, but it's obvious that it's not all the chapters he's read with the same eagerness, because if you look at the Workers' Party's alternative budget in general, you'll see that one of our main priorities is just to stimulate new businesses to grow strong. It is precisely to stimulate increased investment in the Norwegian mainland industry. We need that for a period when we see that the oil activity is going down and is probably going to be lower in the years ahead than in the years that are behind us. That is also why the Workers' Party supports that we are now reducing company taxes, because we know that there is a tax that has a major impact on the investment will. What we're not into is lowering the general level of taxation. It's because we see that we have big challenges ahead of us on the welfare side: an ageing population that needs well-being. We do not weaken the income side while we blow up the expenditure side – that's what the government is doing, and that's not our line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e200	The most important welfare in people's lives is that they have a job to do. There, I fully share the views of the representative Marthinsen. It's the one that allows us to pay for the mortgage and support ourselves and the family. That is why I listened carefully to Mr Marthinsen's statement on what the Workers' Party intends to do to create new jobs in Norway, because we need that. But in her post, I almost only heard about benefits for the unemployed, how to improve them, and about tripartite cooperation, but little about how to stimulate new jobs. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party's alternative budget is that they have not understood the transition in Norway. They send a large tax bill to those who want to create jobs and provide security for the individual. For the Right, it is important to create more – not more taxes. Why does the Workers' Party talk so little about the new jobs to be created?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e209	I don't think the representative Meling could have listened very well to what I said, because I said in my post: Yes, the Workers' Party prioritises action places. Yes, we are prioritizing a better law of laying, because we believe that it is important to enable the people who are now losing their jobs to change. It is an important short-term response. But I also said that our budget is probably so much about facilitating the new jobs. That's why we're proposing things like matching capital for entrepreneurs through our accelerator program, that's why we're proposing to lower corporate tax, and that's why we're proposing to spend more on some targeted investments in research and innovation and get the investment on climate technology, because that's where the future lies. Unlike the Right, we think it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. There is no contradiction between taking good care of those who are now losing their jobs and making sure that their skills do not get confused, and thinking about value creation in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e218	It's good to be back. The comments of the Workers' Party in the setting are as follows, and then it is clear that I have read them: ‘These members are concerned about the huge increase in oil money consumption, partly because of the risk of increased krone prices and the importance of this for Norwegian companies, but also because it will be difficult to reach a sustainable level after four years of Right/FriP government.’ Then you can see that the arrangement of the Workers' Party is going to take 4 billion. kr less. Then there is a difference between the structure of the Workers' Party and the structure of the Government, and what was negotiated here, on 2 pst. My question is then: is there the difference between a massive increase and an adequate phase-in?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e234	Thank you for the question – it’s an important question. The unique thing about the government we now have is that this government has twice provided a budget that they've been working on from scratch, and the two times they've met an overall opposition in the Storting that has said they're spending too much money. I hardly think there is another parliament in the whole world where it has been. We have asked the Ministry of Finance how much less oil money would have been used over the last budgets if the phase-in pace of the government Stoltenberg had been continued. The answer to that is 60 billion. kr. It is a government's responsibility to define the use of money. It is the government that sits on the office, which can make assessments of what is responsible money use. We believe that they are not doing that job properly, and we are sending a strong political signal that money consumption should be lower, by saying that we are reducing oil money consumption by 4 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e241	It's a historical use of oil money by the government. Despite this, well-being, business life throughout the country and commuters are balancing items. It is quite incomprehensible to me that you age commuters at a time of increasing unemployment. There are probably a lot of people who have traveled a lot longer to get a job. My question to the representative will then be: Does the Labour Party agree with the Central Party that there is a need for a stronger focus on commuters both in the coming year and in the year in which we are in, when we see developments in labour market policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e246	At least I can assure the representative that the Labour Party will not vote in favour of the proposed tightening of the commuting deduction that the majority will adopt later today. We have also reacted with wonder that this will come at a time when, for example, we will be able to do so. the Minister of Labour is out saying that people have to be willing to commute more because the labour market is getting tighter. So this doesn't have priority with us. We believe that it says something about the misalignment of the government's tax system when they give priority, for example. cuts in the taxes on wealth of owners of holdings but increases the tax on employees who commute to the same holding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e253	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e257	Let me first congratulate the chairman of the committee, who, through a harvest of work, has managed the committee with a firm hand and participated in the negotiations with an even firmer hand, so to speak, and who seems that the political content and the result have been more important than dates, within certain considerations. Our country is in the most challenging situation we've had in decades: decreasing growth in the economy due to falling oil prices and non-recovery of the trading partners. We have, particularly as a result of falling oil prices, increased unemployment in parts of Norwegian industry and parts of Norway geographically, but there are also good points of light. In some counties, the unemployment actually goes down. In addition, we have a backstop with a significant refugee and migration crisis in Europe, and also now in our country. It has significant consequences, including economic ones. It bears the so-called supplementary budget number a clear bid for which it became necessary to finance a further close to 10 billion. kr due to a rapid increase in the influx of asylum seekers beyond the harvest. The budget adopted today takes account of the fact that oil activity no longer grows in the same way, but the budget meets it with vigorous activity. That's not my expression, it's also the committee chairman's expression, in his posts, and there I totally agree with him. This large growth engine in Norwegian value creation will be somewhat weakened, although investments will still be there in the years to come. But this case has shown us that we are vulnerable, and it should remind us that there will have to be changes in business, perhaps also for the individual, changes that will be able to hurt, and that will remind us that we should perhaps have made more changes in the good times that are behind us. Now, first of all, we need to ensure our continued level of well-being by getting more people to work. The pillar of society we have built up, in the welfare society we have, is the employment share of the population. It has been falling since the financial crisis, and it is not sustainable in the long term. We get a permanent change in Norwegian business. The answer to this cannot be just short-term measures. Nor can the answer be a strong increase in public employment. The answer is to create new jobs to replace those who disappear and pursue a policy that strengthens the possibility of transition in existing jobs. That is why this budget is a budget for work, activity and migration. That's when it was presented in October, it's still after the conciliation. The key actions are to generate growth in the Norwegian economy, not least in the long term, in the years to come, and there are three key axes for creating these new jobs. That's the first increase in the bet on traffic. It has been and will be a characteristic of this government. Norwegian businesses demand transport solutions — in districts and in central districts. Goods must move rapidly over long distances; people in more densely populated areas must quickly advance in ever-enlarged housing and work areas. The allocation to transport is increasing significantly, and has done so throughout the period, both on the road and rail – not least on the track, how much of the delay is about to be resumed. But it's not just about granting more, as we do, it's also about organizing development in a better way, and we're also doing it through the new road development company, which is a new and more efficient actor. It's still about sometimes getting more for the money. Knowledge is the second major axis. Although our external competitiveness has improved through a weakened crown price, we never get cheaper than our competitors, but we can get smarter, we can get better. This is why the high level of investment – the historical investment in Norway as a knowledge nation – is important in the budget: high quality from kindergarten to higher education and research, further investment in the good teacher and his/her further education, the research budget – the largest ever in the number of crowns and as a share of GDP, no severance cutting, and not least a significant peak of research funding towards nutrient research. It can create many new jobs for the future. The third axis of job creation is to stimulate Norwegian capital to invest in Norwegian business. We have done so, and we do so by making significant tax cuts, especially on the company side of this budget, while at the same time presenting a tax reform that will in the longer term help to stimulate the creation of new jobs. The government has so far – when we include the effects that have been incurred in 2016 – reduced the level of taxation of people and companies by about 18 billion. kr. This will provide good incentives both for work and for saving, but most of all for investment in Norwegian business. And then it's a paradox that when this whole hall, essentially, agrees to lower the corporation tax by the 2 pst. which has been proposed by the government, and perhaps further when the tax reform comes, it will be that foreigners come here to invest — and it will be brilliant — while Norwegian owners, Norwegian private owners, will be handicapped by the fact that they will still have to pay taxes on wealth, which will be a hindrance to making these investments. We've made these investments with a balanced use of oil money, although I hear the Workers' Party say something else today, and I'll come back to it a little bit, if the time permits. However, the use is well below the rule of action, and in most economic environments it has been thought that the use of oil money has been well adapted. And the exchange rate has not changed particularly since the budget was presented; it has rather weakened rather than strengthened. The most important thing in the debate on the use of oil money is that it is used countercyclically to counteract weakened economic cycles, but tightening up in better times – they are behind us. Those who did then will answer for it. Even more important is the use of the money in the way it is to be used, which was the starting point of the rule of action: research, development, transport, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. I recommend the national budget, which clearly shows the change that has taken place in that kind of investment from the previous government. There is also a strong priority in this budget of increased quality and capacity in the health sector: higher activity, fewer waiting lists, increased activity growth. The budget also provides a satisfactory local economy, and the growth of the free revenues will increase for another year. The social security network is strengthened, the strategy against child poverty is followed up, municipal drug use is strengthened, among other things. with 400 million. kr. It is a follow-up to prevent drop-outs; it is the strengthening of child protection, family protection and crisis centres, and it is targeted labour market measures and ordinary labour market measures in the budget. But: For those who fall outside, and to reduce the differences in society, many measures are important, but the most important, and what creates the greatest differences, the greatest inequalities, will always be: do you have a job, or you don't have a job, and is there anyone who is able to invest in these jobs? If you don't have a job, it creates economic differences, but it also creates social differences that can last. This budget strongly indicates that such differences will be reduced by more people coming to work. That's the overall strength that the representative Marthinsen is calling for. The whole idea is that more people should get to work, more people should do themselves. It will affect all areas of society, and it is also the thinking that has continued through budgetary negotiations. So I'd like to say to the representative Marthinen of the Workers' Party: she's very concerned about the use of oil money, she's concerned about the generation accounts, but few economists agree with her, at the times we're in now. But if you're so much manic about this, why don't you be a little bit more real in your own calculations of how oil money works? Why then be “guilty” – to say it in Westfoldish – 5 billion. kr, for which no coverage is available, by miscalculation of how the tax side has been calculated? There is no doubt — at least 4.75, or something like that, about interest and financial taxes. Finally, even if it goes a little overtime, let me thank you once again for the fact that the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left have brought in new, good elements, and I take the opportunity to thank both parties and in particular the representatives Syversen and Breivik for their very constructive and good contribution, while at the same time caring for the citizens... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e292	Since the blue-blue government took over the power of government, rural policy instruments have been cut into a great deal, and the worst has gone beyond the funds that are so important to provide relief to municipalities and regions with special challenges — regional development funds. There, the government has proposed almost 500 million in total. I'm sorry. So now you're going to make it more expensive to commute for people who live in the districts, who have to commute to work. Many are also afraid of what will happen to the local economy when it becomes a new income system, for distribution policy is not exactly the mark of this government in terms of cohesion. My question is, why does the Right choose to hang out like this with people in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e297	I hope Tore Hagebakken doesn't feel herded with. I record that he fears future municipal economy much more than the one that exists at the moment. In other words, he has nothing to criticise for the 2016 budget. In terms of commuting and deduction, it's actually that it's tightened up, but it's a private expense to travel to and from work. If he throws a little look at the increase in the minimum deduction, which will cover that type of expenditure, he will find that there has been a significant increase during this government. As far as the third question is concerned, on regional development funds, it is only possible to look at the allocations to roads. The Minister of Transport is still sitting here. He has delivered the budget of the times on the way – both now and before. It is not only in the central east, it is also in the districts, to bring the goods forward – which Norway will survive in the time that comes after the fall in the oil sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e306	Right-handers usually have a lot of faith in tax cuts. That's why it amazes me, when unemployment is on its way up, and the Minister of Labour says that people have to be willing to go further in order to get to work – I agree – that he should target the tax snipers against those who are going to go far to work. What is the logic of that? Why should someone commute, for example? from the fleet's home country, say from Tønsberg to Oslo, get 7 000 kroner less in tax deductions when adding up the last two budgets? Can we expect the government to tighten the taxes even more next year for those who commute far, when more people have to do it? I think it's an unsocial cut, I think it's an incomprehensible cut. We should have gone the other way. Why is it so important for the Right to tax people who travel far, more?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e311	In general, it's important for the Right to tax people less. We do that in government. As I just said in my main post, we have by 2016 run out, provided tax reliefs for 18 billion. kr to persons and companies. Once again, we create jobs and keep more people working. The intrusions that Battle Violence Vedum is talking about are relatively modest. They are compensated for by the relief of the tax on income. And I repeat my argument to Tore Hagebakken that the minimum deduction should cover a lot of these expenses. The minimum deduction has been significantly increased even in our time, as part of the relief for people. Summarizing: If people sat down with the tax returns – which they don't do anymore, but if they had done it – they would see that they actually got out better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e316	One might suspect that the reason why the representative Fleet rejects both tax tables and distribution tables as an indicator of inequality is that the government proposes so fictitious tax cuts to people most. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party boast that most people get to keep more of their own money with their budgets, but it's about very small sums, a couple of dollars a day. So the Navy defended itself that it's not that important, the important thing is whether you have a job or not. I fully agree with that. We haven't seen any special signs from the right, for example. as regards the vision of the permitting code. But another thing I'm wondering about is how the fleet's own statements about differences and having work are consistent with the cut of half a billion in employment measures in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e323	In terms of inequality, it's important to have a job, it's important to create new jobs. A good part of our tax relief goes against creating jobs. That's what's the difference between the parts on the left-hand side and the government parts. We look forward, we see what problems lie ahead of us in 2016, in 2017. Several more jobs need to be created. There must be new jobs. We have to get investors, we have to get incentives to set up these jobs. Then we're also going to help those who fall outside. Direct employment, other measures, are also included in our action package and in our budget, but the main thing will always be the long-term impact of creating new jobs. We have to hold on to that. If we fail there, we also fail those who come after us, who need jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e330	The representative Fleet is talking about that he wants to tax people less, but people who are forced to travel far at work are to be taxed more. I don't understand the logic, and I don't understand that it's good right-wing policy either. It's targeted tax incentives that make people willing to go further to work. It's wise for the individual, and it's wise for society. Then there's another fee, which showed up late at night, so I can't believe it's thoughtful. That's the flight fee. If I'm going to go on vacation Oslo–New York, it'll cost me 80 kroner in charge, but if I'm going on a job trip, for example. between Oslo and Molde, there will be 160 kroner return. What is the logic of a flight fare that makes it cheaper to fly a return trip to New York than to fly a return trip to Oslo-Molde. Can the representative Fleet explain that to me? And why is it so important to introduce such a charge now, when the national budget wrote that it had no climate impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e337	I'm going to try – and hope I succeed better – to explain that it's the total of the tax cuts that count for people and not every one up or down. The environmental tax on air travel is a transition to a green tax. It'll just get more and more out of it. It will affect the transport sector; it will affect the agricultural sector. What's the point here is that we're going to lower the taxes by about 18 billion. to stimulate work, to stimulate investment. Then we want to turn this over to the green taxes. But when people make up the total account, which also Battle Force Vedum was in on – or wasn't in, he's not so busy with the total, he's busy with the details – they'll see that you get a lot, a lot better out here. I think that the threat that the districts are going down because of that is completely wrong. I think, on the contrary, that the transition to green taxes will be excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e348	Monday November 23rd, after a few weeks of negotiations, the four cooperation parties agreed on next year's government budget. There is no reason to hide that the negotiations have been demanding, partly because of external events and partly because the individual priorities are not always consistent, but the most important thing is that the parties in the Stortinget reached a budget agreement for 2016. It is true that a minority government must solve many important and difficult issues in the Storting and not in government offices. It means greater publicity about different priorities, but also a vitalization of the Storting as a popular body and a greater focus on the overall lines that connect the four parties on the non-socialist side. The budget agreement moves a few billion, but in sum, the main direction and priorities of the government's submitted government budget are well taken care of. For the Progress Party, it has been important to correct discrimination against married and cohabiting pensioners by increasing the basic pension by NOK 8 000 per couple. That the agreement also gives more to lone minimum pensioners is an extra contribution to those who often sit at the bottom of the table. Taking care of our pensioners is important in a modern welfare society and not in conflict with other budgetary priorities. The Government’s proposals on the state funding of care services to ensure greater equal treatment and rights for those with the highest needs of care are ensured through the negotiations in Stortinget and, at the same time, are being organised for 2 500 new health homes in 2016. The budget agreement also includes agreement on a new model for the calculation of the one-off charge on cars, and I record that the changes have been received very well both in the industry and by the organisations. New, secure cars with modern technology and low emissions are to be presented in the charging system and contribute to faster replacement of the Norwegian car fleet. Over time, this makes a significant contribution to improving local air quality by using carrots and not whips – in line with the policies of the Progress Party, and it is important to clarify that it is actually the case that the four parties have formed this agreement on the new charging system with the Left on the one hand and the Progress Party on the other. So everything is possible when sensible people get together. The government's 2016 draft government budget has been well received in many different environments. Even at the budgetary hearing of the Financial Committee, there were many good feedbacks on the government's budgetary priorities and a confirmation that the budget responds well to the challenges we are now facing in the Norwegian economy. In the international context, the Norwegian economy is still very solid. Large resources combined with high labour input have given us a level of well-being that takes care of the vast majority, but also some challenges both for individual households, individual businesses and for the country’s economy as a whole, because the level of costs in Norway is very high compared to our competitors in Europe, and it has evolved in the wrong direction over time. Low oil prices and increasing unemployment pose some challenges both in the short and long term and impose greater demands on clear budgetary priorities in order to ensure good and stable framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. Low rates of exchange are a clear advantage for export companies, suppliers of oil and other companies facing competition from abroad. Low interest rates and other monetary policy measures support under economic activity and contribute to the growth of household demand for goods and services. New jobs are still being created in many industries, and there are major challenges in the industries and industries that are most vulnerable when oil prices fall and stabilize at a low level. It creates uncertainty for businesses and for individuals. In addition to changing financial assumptions and making the situation more demanding for Norway, the government’s additional number to the 2016 government budget also indicates that the action space is now being challenged by the strong increase in the number of asylum seekers coming to the country. There is a totally exceptional situation that requires exceptional measures for control, tightening up and not least contributing to the security and stability of the Norwegian society. We are living in a very difficult time, which demands both action and implementation in order to secure our future prosperity. The importance of government action to strengthen both police and prosecution authorities therefore becomes more visible in the current situation. The 2016 State Budget continues what has been an important priority for the Right-wing Party Government since the autumn of 2013. In order to meet the requirements for economic transformation, it is essential to stimulate growth in private, competitive business through lower taxes and taxes to contribute to increased investment both in enterprises and in jobs. Tax reform proposals provide a clear direction for the reduction of corporation tax from 27 to 22 p.m. progress towards 2018. Next year, the general income tax rate will be reduced to 25 pst. both for companies and persons. While the size of tax reform proposals remains, it is important to note that the budgetary agreement does not change the objective of lower corporate taxes in order to contribute to a better framework conditions for businesses and jobs. While predictability of better framework conditions is established, the 4 billion package of measures contributes. to mitigate the short-term and negative impacts of the transition now taking place within individual industries and in parts of the country. Knowledge and research are significantly boosted in the appropriations for 2016 and 5000 teachers will be offered further training. Resources must be used properly to contribute to future growth and prosperity. Commitments for increased investment in the transport sector will be honoured while reducing the road and track maintenance run. The own road development company is established with a start-up grant of 1 billion. NOK 300 million and SEK 300 million. kr in the operational credit. New organisation shall contribute to faster and more comprehensive planning and implementation of cost-effective road projects. It's important for businesses and most people in everyday life. Now the country is being built faster and better, not only because of larger appropriations, but also because of new organisation. Otherwise, it is interesting that the Børmer committee, which came with its setting, a NOW, this week, among others. points out that the management of the road sector by the Storting should be turned towards establishing overall criteria and targets for road investment, i.e. less detailed political management of some projects. That is exactly what is now being implemented, while filling the infrastructure fund up to 100 billion. kr in 2016 and provides a good basis for future maintenance. For the Progress Party, it is important to focus both on investment and maintenance of its infrastructure. Security of life and health is an important priority for the Progress Party. Now there are 25 000 fewer in health queues than when we took over in 2013, i.e. there are fewer sick persons pending treatment or operation. It is important for the country, it is important for the individual, and it contributes to increased labour input. The 2016 budget provides a significant increase in the allocation of activity growth in hospitals, and the free capacity of private individuals is used for the benefit of the community. That means that politics works. Finally, it has been mentioned that no clear ownership of the budgetary agreement has been established – the budgetary agreement. Let it just be said that the budgetary agreement between the four parties ensures a good government budget for Norway in 2016. The Progress Party takes ownership, and we take responsibility for the whole of the agreement, but we do not necessarily have to invoke the copyright of the so-called fare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e379	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed in the agreement on fees increases of approximately 200 million. kr more than the Workers' Party proposes. While the Workers' Party is increasing emissions, tobacco and alcohol taxes, the majority are increasing taxes on clean electricity and thus introducing a fiscal charge on air travel to cover other priorities. The most frequently mentioned issue in the budget agreement is the so-called fare for seats, by some in the Left also called the Limi tax, which, like the bag tax last year – at least until today – nobody has wanted to take responsibility for it. When we hear the consequences that such a charge can get – there, for example. Moss and Torp airports say they can go bankrupt because of it, and hundreds of jobs can be lost – you can't wonder. I would like to hear from the representative whether he is comfortable to participate in such large fees increases in general and on the fare, especially when we see the consequences it can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e386	I will first be allowed to correct the representative on one point. I do not think the Left has called it the Limi fee, but they tried to produce it as if it had become a Limi plug-in, which is not correct. No, the representative is not comfortable to increase fees, but this time it was necessary to establish a budgetary settlement. It surprises me a little bit that the Workers' Party is so concerned about this, because the Workers' Party has proposed to increase the tax by over 10 billion. kr in 2016. In addition, there is also a national meeting decision to pay an airline seat fee, so I would think that the exact part of this agreement is quite well adapted to what is the Labour Party's policy. It is a piece of the Progress Party's policy, but we take responsibility for the whole of the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e393	Before the 2013 elections, the Progress Party promised a toll-free Norway. What we see now is that we both get new tolls in the air, and that on the ground was 2014 that year in the Norwegian history where the state demanded the most tolls from Norwegian drivers. Then one promises that things will happen. My question is really simple: Will Norwegian drivers pay more tolls or less tolls in 2016 than they did when the red-green ones crashed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e400	I assume that the representative is aware that the Stortinget has adopted a toll reform which involves bringing together companies, fewer companies, lower administrative costs, and that there should also be a government subsidy scheme to reduce toll rates. That's what's the starting point. I don't think anyone is unaware that the Progress Party is the only party on the Stortinget that doesn't want to pay tolls, but unfortunately it's not that the Progress Party has a majority for that view. Then we have to adapt to the reality we live in, and contribute to getting more way, lower toll rates, and getting a real infrastructure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e405	At a seminar in the direction of Norvegfinans, it became clear that it is very unclear when the reform and merger of toll companies will be in progress. But if one assumes a premise, that the government really succeeds in this, and that the collection costs in 2016 are going to be zero dollars, will the total number of tolls in 2016 be higher or lower than when the red-green ones crashed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e410	Once the toll reform has been implemented, the companies have merged, and lower interest cost subsidies are granted, the toll share of each project will decrease compared to what would be the red-green option. Then I think that the Central Party should perhaps be a little more concerned with its own policy and not just criticise the Progress Party. I record that the Central Party in its alternative state budget increases a number of charges, including: on fuel, they increase taxes on mineral oil, so it is not that the centre party is really very concerned that it will be cheaper for the drivers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e415	I will agree with the representative Limi that it is a strange sight to see the lot that is for higher taxes and taxes overall, plague the Progress Party with single increases in the tax and tax arrangements, for which they might have been in another situation. Let's talk about something that should plague the Progress Party, and that's the absence of tax cuts for most people. It may not be very pleasant for the Progress Party that, over two years in a row, SV has proposed tax cuts to ordinary and low incomes of a completely different order of magnitude than the Progress Party has done. It has the option because we're increasing taxes on the highest income and wealth. Is the representative Lili satisfied with the efforts of the Right-wing Party Government to tax cuts for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e422	As far as I remember, the representative asked me the same question a year ago. I can confirm that I am satisfied with the government's ability to implement tax reductions, because there is actually a lot of positive about the charging side despite the flight fee. [[Laughter]] Among other things, the one-time charge on the car will be a significant contribution to the fact that most people can replace the car. We get a faster replacement of the car park in Norway, and it is also important for the environment. We have also managed to establish an additional tax relief for medium and low incomes in the budgetary agreement that was now concluded between the four parties, and reinforced the profile of the government. At the same time, the main scheme for 2016 was to reduce corporate tax in view of the situation in which the economy is. In sum: Yes, I am still satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e433	The year’s budgetary management of this great harvest has been very special, and it has been mildly chaotic in its form. First we got a budget where we didn't take into account the increased refugee costs, then there was an additional message, and afterwards there was a cooperation between – I don't know if you're going to call them cooperative parties anymore, but at least the four parties have done a job afterwards. In the Financial Committee we have had one real meeting on the biggest issue of the year, that was the discharge meeting. All the deadlines were broken, and we had no opportunity to have proper consideration in the committee. The chaos we have seen is not due to the fact that we have had worse tradesmen in the finance committee, but it is because there is no common project anymore – the substance of the policy – and there are four parties that are unable to lead together. One of the obvious indications that the four parties no longer have the necessary trust is that all processes are out of time, conclusions are drawn at the last minute, and this gives many strange outcomes – outcomes that affect individuals. And that gives you a lack of totality in the budget. Let me give you a few examples. I can't believe that the Christian People's Party and the Left, when they went into budgetary negotiations, thought that it was a main requirement for them that 60-year-olds who lost their jobs would get more tax when the unemployment was on their way up. Nevertheless, one of the final products of the budgetary process is that unemployed persons are taxed harder. I don't think that was thought of at all – not least when we know how important it is to have good tripartite cooperation in Norway. Last year, a bag tax came that eventually became Per Sandberg's fee, but I can't believe anyone really wanted it. This was not thought, and when you met reality, it was discarded, because it was practically impossible to implement. This year, it's the flight fee. This is also very strange – when you see the aviation policy of these four cooperation parties. Last year, the main objective was to subsidise foreign travel more with lower tax-free in the revised national budget. It was highly prioritised and profiled as a charity for the government. Now it's all of a sudden that it's a main goal to tax domestic air travel more than foreign air travel. If you want a holiday trip to New York, it's $80 a fee. You have to fly, for example. between Bodø and Svolvær, there is NOK 160 in charge. It's not thought out, and I'm pretty sure it's not what the four games initially want. But that's what happens because the processes go so fast, and you can't figure out the consequences of your own policies. Another statement, which I think is very regrettable, is that one through this budgetary process has forgotten the increasing unemployment. The government launched a $4 billion package. with targeted measures. Since the package was launched, the vacancy has increased, but nevertheless the package has been halved. If you look at today's draft budget, it's now down to 2 billion. kr. I'm sure this isn't thought of. I am sure that if you talked to each party, there was no one who wanted to do this in the first place – that you would halve the means to combat unemployment from October to now. However, it does happen – because it is chaotic, lack of trust and no common project. Last fall, it was a goal for the government to add more equity to State power, and the Stortinget was on it. Then we see that the unemployment is on the way up, we need a heavy industrial player who can launch heavy projects that can create new activity in the Norwegian economy, and that can create new renewable energy. However, in the last hour it is the company that is going to be one of the engines, from which one draws equity. I'm sure this isn't thought of, but you needed the money to get the budget up. In the Center Party, we're fundamentally in disagreement with the governance we're now seeing. When the leave is on the way up, we in the Center Party will use the state companies for new activity around the country. The public budgets must be used for action. The package of measures should not be weakened; the package of measures should be strengthened. There should have been more money for regional development. We want money for broadband development and mobile development, we want action in the agricultural sector, in the forestry sector and in the fisheries sector. We propose halved toll rates for business to stimulate profitability in the transport sector, and we will launch public construction projects around the country to create jobs. What's really amazing about this year's budget process is that it looks like you've forgotten that some of the most important tools we have in a year to get the activity up and down are the government budget, and that through the process you've weakened it – although I'm sure that each party wants to strengthen it. Apart from the budgetary process, which is the usual annual exercise, it has been crucial for the Centre Party this year to achieve a broad immigration settlement in the Grand Duchy. That is why we took the initiative earlier this autumn, because immigration policy has been one of the areas where it has been seen that the four parties have pointed in all directions. It has become a main flag area for the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – to show disunity there. That's why we in the Center Party thought it was essential that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party should also be involved in this work, so that we could make a compromise and put in place some restraints in the policy. Thanks to our going in, we managed to achieve that process in a completely different way and with a completely different efficiency, and we managed to get the broad agreement that is absolutely crucial. Now we also want integration policy, that together we can make a deal there, because the steps we take in immigration and integration policy should be over time and have a thoughtful direction. The choices we make also have implications for Stortinget and our country in three–four–five–six–seven–eight–nine years. That's why wide-ranging settlements are so important. I'm glad we've got it done, and we want to contribute to it again to get a wider and safer governance, not a governance that cracks in every direction. Summary: What has been the main focus of the Central Party in the budget of the year? We've increased assistance with over 4 billion. Compared to the government's proposal. That's because there's so much trouble. Norway has a major role in the area of aid, and we believe it is important and right that we contribute even more. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to increase it a little, but we think one could go even further than what was agreed on in the budget. Point two, which we have given priority to, is integration. We have increased the integration budget by 1.9 billion. kr. The reason for this is that we believe that in the current situation, it is important that it is the state that takes the heaviest burden, that we are able to move around the municipalities of the country as quickly as possible, and that the individual municipal politicians do not have to set up integration measures against other measures in the municipality. We also think it is very unwise not to use funds for Norwegian education, housing and early-stage work, because it causes major problems in three to four years. That's why it's a top priority for us. We're increasing the municipal economy by 3.6 billion. kr. There are several reasons for that. One reason is that we want services – school, nursing homes – close to people and have a worthy offer. The second is that we also want to improve the ability of county councils to operate actively with regional development and road development and to be an engine in their local environment. We've increased the hospital budget by 1 billion. kr. It is because we believe it is important that you have a good service and a good readiness, independent of your place of residence, near where you live. That's why we have also raised the local police with several hundred million dollars because we see it as crucially important that you have a good and well-functioning police independent of housing. So we've been putting a lot of effort on transportation. We believe that actively using the transport activity is the right tool in the economic situation we are in. A measure we promised the last time it was a bit of a crisis was bottleneck improvement – using transport policy more precisely to reduce transport costs where bridges, crossings and other means of preventing large and heavy freight trains. In total, we have done a lot of actions. We haven't fallen for the temptation to bottle up state companies like State Power, we think it's important to have them as engines. We have proposed the creation of a new green investment company, and we want to actively use the state to create activity around the country. With this I address the proposal of the Centre Party, with the exception of the proposals No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e473	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e478	It's a bit of a ham change we hear from the Center Party: I didn't hear a single word about local private ownership in Battle Violence Vedum's posts, rather the opposite. They're using 15 billion. kr in tax increases to finance public projects. That's what you're left with. Many of the tax increases are due to local private ownership by going back to the 2013 level in terms of property taxes. It is quite remarkable, given that they criticise the government for a slight change in the original proposal, that the general tax on property turnover should be lowered to just general taxes – which was a small increase in the tax on family transfers. But that is also reversed in the agreement. There is reason to ask the Center Party if they have forgotten their old anchor party, which was in the small entrepreneurial environments around the communities in Norway, and which in many ways carries out activity throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e485	Sometimes when you read things or listen to articles, you look for confirmation of your own prejudices. This was an example of wanting to confirm one's own prejudice – that the Senter Party is not a business-friendly party. But if you look at our budget -- and had read it properly -- you see that's exactly what it is. There are many targeted tax havens and tax breaks to increase the profitability of large and small businesses around the country, because we are busy raising the profitability of businesses. In addition, we are committed to using the state and the public to create new activity for small and large entrepreneurs around the country, because some of the success in Norway has been that we have used fiscal policies on the one hand, and we have used subsidies to stimulate new development — and in addition, the public to create activity. We have an overall profile that will create more activity both for the private and for the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e492	I have registered very little media interest in the Central Party's alternative budget. It might not be so strange when they even spend most of their time on other parties' policies. But if there's any comfort, at least I've read the budget. Although it does not lead to new voters for the Center Party, at least I have gone through it thoroughly. I bit my special mark at one point. This applies to prison in the Netherlands, with 242 places. The center party will liquidate it. They say that ‘these funds should be used to increase capacity in Norway’. In the budget, the more new prisons are mentioned, but for 2016, with the budget of the Central Party, we will only have eight new prisons. 242 minus 8 -- there's a difference of 234. The question is whether the centre party for next year will add to the forward release of 234 prisoners, home reconciliation for 234 prisoners, or increase the settlement queue by 234 prisoners.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e501	It is interesting to listen to the Advance Party as regards this with election transfers. In the major elections two years ago, the Progress Party had about 300,000 more voters than the Centre Party. At the municipal elections three months ago, they had approx. 20,000 more. They're at least one thing that's the result of this government's policy, and that's that the Progress Party has gone down in elections, and we've gone up. That is a good result, and the development I want to continue. We sincerely believe that it is wrong to bet on prison sites abroad. We want to build up prison capacity in Norway. We believe it is wrong to force Norwegian citizens to settle abroad, and believe it is right to build capacity around the country, which can create activity and jobs, both in the construction sector when it is being built, and in the prison system when it is to be operated. We have different visions. We want to bet in Norway, they want to bet in the Netherlands. We think building capacity here is more forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e510	The centre party says they're going to bet on integration, and it's a Christian People's Party that's very happy. Many municipalities have done a great job and have done their best to cope with the situation of living very many, but at the same time we see that there are a number of municipalities that do not contribute. In fact, according to Dagbladet, 250 municipalities have not contributed to integrating all those who have been legally resident in Norway. The centre party is chaired by 105 rapporteurs and 95 rapporteurs during this period. In such positions in the political landscape in leading positions, one can go ahead and show the way. My question to Vedum is: what will the Centre do to make use of the possibility through the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs they actually have to take responsibility in all these municipalities for the maximum number of refugees legally residing in Norway, quickly and effectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e517	We are concerned: Who is the strong in Norwegian public? It's the state. What's inside our alternative state budget is that the state should take a greater share of the stock, because it has the strongest back. Today, the host municipality grant covers approx. 90 pst. of the costs. It has been lifted a little thanks to, among others. Christian People's Party, and that's good. But in the extraordinary situation we're in now, we believe that the state should take 100 pst. If we on the side of Stortinget manage to lift the different arrangements, we think it'll be even easier to settle. We would, of course, urge all our rapporteurs to accept and integrate, but I do not think that we, as national politicians, can shift responsibility to local politicians if we are not willing to provide funding. That is why we want to have a completely different funding from what is in the budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e522	The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, spent a lot of his time talking about the budgetary unity between the four bourgeois parties and was concerned that there are contradictions here. But if there's one area where it's really been a change of pace since we got a new majority, it's in climate policy. Here, there's been a lot of relief by cleaning up a lot of things, for example. by removing the user tax on biofuels – we make biogas more competitive. In this budget, there are proposals both to set up hydrogen filling stations and to create rights-based charging stations — and one has many other proposals that have come in recent years. But I notice that the Senterpartie primarily addresses their attacks against where there is an increase in charges. There are currently charges on air travel, and there are criticisms of changes in the commuting deduction. Two years ago, the increase in the rate of mineral oil was the major point of attack. Then the question becomes to the Center Party: are green fees something you're really just for in general terms, but not in individual matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e529	We're busy having a country where not everyone can ride to the Stortinget. Then we must have a policy for the whole country, have a charging policy adapted to the whole country, and have a commuting deduction adapted to the whole country. I understand that part of the Left has an "inner circle of Oslo" perspective in the world. We don't. We believe that we should not pursue symbolism policies in the charging policy. We're going to make real changes. When, last year and now this year, the Left ensures large tax subsidies on tax-free and is not willing to introduce CO2 tax on international transport, it introduces a tax such as: is NOK 160 in the fee to fly the trip-return Bodø–Svolvær, while there is NOK 80 in the fee to fly Oslo–New York – it is a pointless way to pursue environmental policies. For measures that actually have an effect must be used, and not penalise those who use aircraft, for example. North Norway, while those flying on vacation between Oslo and New York get lower taxes. That kind of policy does not want to support the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e539	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e548	After many years when the Norwegian economy is almost free from concern, there is some evidence that 2016 will be a different year. If the challenges are not in line, they are both larger and more than in many years. I would particularly like to point out four of the ideas that have been decisive for the Left in the work on our proposal for the 2016 government budget, and the negotiations that we have had with the government parties and the Christian People's Party in order to arrive at the agreement on the left voice subsidized for today: the need to take climate change seriously and to take action both at national and international level to reduce climate change while at the same time facilitating the creation of value added and green growth, increasing unemployment and an urgent need for conversion, in particular of oil-related activities, including. following the current low oil price and high cost refugee crisis in Europe and in the Mediterranean countries due to the civil war in Syria, which has also led to a monthly increase in asylum seekers to Norway, and where a large part actually needs both protection and suspension in Norway an unsustainable growth in oil money use, public consumption and public expenditure, as if it were continuing, will face major challenges, especially in a generation perspective. We are in danger of sending the bill to our descendants, and in this area all the parties, including the Left, must assume that we have a common responsibility. Short-term measures are needed to resolve the refugee crisis and increase unemployment, and long-term measures are needed to promote and stimulate the green shift and to ensure a sustainable welfare country in the future. The proposal for the government budget on the Left's side has been adapted to these challenges. We suggest demanding, but necessary steps to convert Norway into a greener direction, among other things. by making active use of the tax system to change behaviour for the benefit of the environment and the climate. We suggest demanding, but necessary steps to reduce public expenditure, but at the same time ensure the welfare of future generations. Some of the measures may be considered difficult for some. The sad fact is that there are also opportunities in conversion – opportunities that are reinforced and underlined in the proposal from the Left to the government budget for 2016, a budget for just green growth and value creation. In reality, the government has presented two budget proposals. First, on 7 October, and then on 30 October, a comprehensive additional number was added to the increase in the cost of the refugee crisis. It has done both the work on the draft budget for the Left and the negotiations between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the extra demands. However, the Left has submitted a 2016 draft government budget that is well adapted to the challenges Norway is facing in time. I would like to highlight in particular the following key statements: a conversion and stimulation package for Norway of about 10 billion. kr, where 3 billion. kr are targeted tax credits that make it profitable to work, own and develop Norwegian enterprises and jobs, and that are part of a real green shift a combined green bet on green growth and green shifts of 4.8 billion. kr, and a green tax change of 12.5 billion. a policy for reducing emissions, strengthening climate reconciliation, and new green jobs a commitment to growth and early efforts of 2 billion. A corresponding commitment to the fight against poverty and redistribution of equal opportunities policies for all and fewer poor families with a strengthened community economy of 3 billion. kr, and an additional investment in school, education and research of about 2 billion. kr – a policy for the future a more social and simpler step tax model that provides monthly tax relief to low and ordinary incomes, and tax amplifying revenue over 1 million. kr last, but not least, an oil money use that is well over 12 billion. kr lower than the government originally raised – about 5.2 billion. less than the government proposal, which includes additional expenditure on refugees and asylum seekers — and without prejudice to long-term assistance I realise that the 2016 draft state budget from Left bet gets multiples. That is why I want to spend the rest of my speaking time on the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left, which, as I said, supports subsidized today. It has been demanding, but it has given rise to negotiations. Demanding because the Left has always been aware that we will not vote for a budget line that does not reduce Norwegian climate change emissions by 2020. Just like the other parties that are in the plural today, the Left is not just as enthusiastic about all the elements of the budget agreement, but of course we are in favour of the whole thing. The most difficult thing for us, in addition to putting in place a better climate and environmental policy, has been the discovery and the fact that we are actually increasing public expenditure further by what is being agreed today. The budget agreement implies a climate and environmental policy The left can stand in the way. It is not Left's primary environmental and climate policy, but there are many steps in the right direction, a monthly green tax shift, with emphasis on shifts, by increasing green taxes are replaced with reduced income taxes and reduced taxes on Norwegian business. Only in 2016 will there be a greater green tax shift than in all years with the red-green parts. There is a decisive lead on how the Green Tax Commission should monitor. There are major changes in the car and fuel charges that will result in reduced emissions from the car park. There is a record investment in classical nature protection and other environmental measures. It's a redeployment from road to rail, public transport and bike of nearly 1 billion. kr. There is a strong incentive for the municipal sector to take action to reduce local emissions. In addition, budgetary reconciliation means a strong commitment to poverty measures, a commitment that is not left to any of the other parties’ alternative budgets. The system of free core time in kindergartens is extended to three-year-olds. There is a significant increase in the free SFO trial. The pre-arrangement against child poverty is strengthened, and family protection, child protection, scholastic services and health centres are strengthened. More money is paid to a number of voluntary organisations and initiatives that get a lot out of each krona and that help to help those who wear the most in terms of drugs, psychiatry or free legal aid. Eleven months of study support is finally no phase-in, over four years, with the first week of extra payment in 2017. Several places of study, further training and the provision of real skills for unskilled students at school, more for research in the environment and industry, and a strengthening of the new universities with several new recruitment options are included. It is also a powerful employment and value creation package with reduced corporate tax and strengthening of all existing measures in the State budget – such as the SIVA incubator programme, the pre-seed fund scheme, a new seed fund, the environmental technology scheme and the distribution of a whole new tax incentive to stimulate private investment in business start-ups and start-ups. Last, but not least: we get a whole new state investment fund, which is going to go in and help fill a little bit of the gap that is, to scale up all the exciting developments in technology within the area that leads to reduced climate emissions. Industry and supplier companies are showing roadway. Here we follow up with a powerful tool. Environment, school, fight against poverty, value creation and green change – it has our four main areas for the Left for a long, long time. In 2016 and the years to come, there will now be a great deal of this reality, as we promised the voters to the Left before the 2013 elections. Before finally taking up the suggestions for the Left in the setting, I have to make the assembly aware of one thing: in Roman numerals II in the setting from the Committee, the number is 4 dots in the last sentence of a so-called incurrency. I finally take up the suggestions for the Left option.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e616	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e621	Norway is now experiencing the highest unemployment rate of 20 years. It's particularly noticeable at home in the West. Before the deal, the left was very concerned about this. In the left-hand option, one could read that one was going to have 10 billion. more than the government of such measures. Now, on the other hand, the left is behind the cut and a completely opposite line. A cutter in employment measures in municipalities with half a billion, a cutter in the action package, which is completely shaven, with over 1 billion. kr, one deprivs the unemployed almost 2 billion. kr, where the right to holiday pay is lost, and the termination allowance shall be taxed. So the unemployment rate is going up, but the measures have been taken down. My question is therefore: how can the Left put behind a budget as targeted cutters in the action against increasing unemployment, especially the short-term measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e628	I'm actually a little intrigued by the fact that one can hang out in that one can call a redistribution from one part of the municipal sector to another – that is to say to one who is to accept the refugees and the asylum seekers – in a situation where we are now to adopt the heaviest and best budget of Norway in order to meet the need for conversion and the employment needs that we see out there. I'm also a little fascinated by the fact that a representative from Rogaland, one of the states that really notices these problems, doesn't see the potential of the total strength in this budget, among other things. a new State investment fund of not less than 20 billion. kr, which will be the direct answer to the specific demand of the enterprises along the west coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e635	These were the short-term measures I was asking for. There are as many as 127,000 unemployed now. Investment funds are good, and the Workers' Party's alternative also includes seed and accelerator programmes. But the representative of Breivik must also agree that there must be action in the longer term. The left is behind the cuts in the budget. I am calling for the short-term measures, the things that you could have adopted today, and that could have worked now. Can the representative of the Left mention such a short-term measure aimed specifically at the West for which the Left has been implemented in the conciliation? There were quite a number of good proposals in the Left's option, but it does not look as if they have been put through as they have been in negotiations. Then it's more the long-term transitions they've been talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e642	As the representative is of course aware, there is a short-term package of measures of around 4–5 billion. kr in the budget adopted today. It is an action package that directly addresses short-term measures and stimulates both the shipbuilding industry and other industries we meet in the West. There is a fairly large commitment to exceptional maintenance in the public sector. There are typical counter-cyclical measures that should be a little cautious about using too much money, for anything that stimulates the public sector to, one at a time will meet in the form of increased operating costs. For the left, it has been very important that one has two thoughts in its head at the same time, and not least stimulates the private sector and helps them with the transition they are already in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e647	In the agreement, there's an airline seat fee. It is designed as a flat fee, which is the same regardless of travel distance, unless a traveler travels abroad, then it is half of the domestic fee. When Breivik goes to Oslo from Flesland, he has four departures between hours. 7 and 8 in the morning. Business life in Kristiansund has four departures to make use of during the day. It is said that industry and air traffic in the districts are primarily affected. The centre party has presented a proposal today asking the government to come back with an assessment of the consequences of this charge and its design. So my question is, if someone finds other ways, which give greater environmental impact and less impact on business and districts, will the Left be willing to look at the scheme of the fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e652	I can first cancel - the representative Breivik is very rarely flying. I'm driving a car from Ulvik-Oslo, by the way. The flight fee – I am very pleased with that question – is a prime example of a green tax shift in practice. We are forced to solve the climate problem. This means that pollution costs, pollution must be paid for. The extra income we charge on an airline tax is used to stimulate more of what we want, i.e. work, employment and value creation, a reduction in income taxes, on average from NOK 1000 and up, a reduction in corporate tax by 2 pst, so that both business and private individuals can enjoy greater freedom of action. In addition, we introduce 25 pst. reduction in the landing charge, i.e. the aerodrome charge, for aeroplanes using more climate-friendly fuels, because today's fuel is the main problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e659	The representative Breivik used the opportunity to describe a time we have behind us as a period of Norwegian economy without any worries. Well, in that case, it must be because the right people have fallen. I seem to remember a small event at the turn of the year 2008/2009 that could have had a major impact on the Norwegian economy if it had not been managed with a firm and clear hand. In the situation we are in now, the Left chooses to be involved in adopting a budget that increases VAT on hotels, on football tickets, on ferries, buses and trains, on amusement parks, on cinemas and on tourist experiences. Why does the Left push a small margin service sector at a time when we need to stimulate more jobs in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e664	This is one of the things that I'm actually a little sorry that we didn't get through in the negotiations. As the representative Serigstad Valen has already guaranteed to check, this was one of the things that Left suggested to reverse in its alternative state budget. So it's like this, that everyone knows who's involved in a collaboration, that it's taking and giving. This was one of the points that we had to deal with in the negotiation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e673	These are demanding times. Many thousands of people have lost their jobs in the last year. Many, many thousands have come to Norway to seek asylum. But if we, who are given the confidence it is to sit on the Storting and in government, spread unrest and leave the impression that we don't have control, we can't be surprised if society responds with fear. In the autumn of 2008, the financial crisis broke out, with the disastrous consequences it had for the global economy. When I see how today's government is dealing with the challenges, I can't help but think that we're going to be happy that Siv Jensen wasn't Minister of Finance at the time, and that Erna Solberg wasn't Prime Minister at the time. Can anyone imagine the consequences of members of the Red-Green Government moving into the media in the autumn of 2008 with much different messages and quarrelling for the open stage and spending weekly on summer meal and political games between themselves before presenting a crisis package, or whether the government had been more concerned about blaming the financial crisis on the previous government or on what someone said at the national meeting to the Progress Party, instead of presenting concrete solutions? Such a reaction to the financial crisis would have been quite unimaginable, and it would have major adverse effects. But this fall has been just as the bourgeois government has reacted to a series of demanding situations. There are many examples — all very serious — of the consistent government deficit. Again and again, the government was warned that an extraordinary refugee situation was underway. Last year the majority voted in favour of proposals for the necessary strengthening of the UDI. This summer it was quite quiet, but more and more people reacted strongly to the conditions of the Police Foreign Unit on Tøen. In August, Red Cross struck the alarm. At the beginning of September, the majority rejected a crisis meeting on the situation, while at the beginning of September the Ministry of Justice refused to give more money to PU and UDI – in September. In October, while everyone else had found that far more asylum seekers came to Norway than had been foreseen, the government put forward a budget with cuts in the refugee grant to the municipalities and cut the interpreting services in the UDI, even cut the appropriations for the return of rejected asylum seekers – in October! Only in November did the government's addition to the State budget come with a certain orientation of reality. The priorities that have been set indicate political cooperation that is riveting in linkages and that makes poor policy choices. How clever it is, for example. to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in employment measures in municipalities to pay for refugee costs? How wise is it to set up a growing group of unemployed people against foreign refugees? The Prime Minister himself said this yesterday in the Chamber – that it was okay to cut off the hundreds of millions of dollars spent on employment measures in the South West, because the asylum recipients have an employment effect. What kind of logic is that? What does that help those people who have lost their jobs in the West in the last year? Is setting these groups up against each other a contribution to social stability? Rather, it seems to be a contribution to the long-term story of the Progress Party that solidarity with the North and solidarity with the refugees of war must be chosen. In a situation where we know that thousands in any case will be allowed to stay – completely independent of the restrictions made at the border, which SV supports, and completely independent of the intrusions made in integration, which we in SV believe are unwise – how clever is it to cut Norwegian training? Previous slogans to help them where they are, as we have heard, were replaced by a great deal of assistance, which is only partially corrected by the Christian People's Party and the Left. Rarely has a political slogan been cleared of content as quickly as the phrase: helping where they are – perhaps with the exception of the now forgotten bourgeois mantra on enforcement. It's been a very long time since I've heard anyone from the bourgeois parties outside the word 'implementation force' from this pulpit. The fact that more people want to flee the UN camps in the neighbourhoods are unable to keep going is being pushed to solve short-term challenges. This is why, for example: So the government can't afford the three billion without mucking. to urgently remedy the humanitarian crisis situation in the Syrian neighbourhood, for money needs to be spent here and now on short-term solutions. The best prevention of future conflicts and refugee crises is to ensure that we create a world without resource shortages, without conflict about resources and without the need for refugees by millions of people. Therefore, we must ensure that climate change does not tear away the basis of life from millions of people. That's why I can't find words about how strange I think it is to warm up to the climate summit in Paris by draining State power for billions in a manoeuvre that the Minister of Finance described all the way back in 2002 as oil money laundering, cutting off international climate aid and cancelling Norway's climate targets for 2020. In the most important climate summit ever, Norway is represented by a climate minister who has reduced the level of ambition on behalf of the whole of Norway, with the signals it gives in the international community. Tine Sundtoft is sent to the climate summit with a cancelled climate settlement and billions of pieces of cake in the suitcase. It's completely possible to prioritize completely differently from this. Just laying down at the tax level from 2013 onwards creates a completely different space for action to address future challenges. I know what the right-hand side intends to answer then: you cannot respond to financial crisis or to labour market challenges by increasing taxes. Well, I seem to remember that Kristin Halvorsen and the red-green management of the financial crisis impressed considerably more than the current government's management of the increasing unemployment in the West, and that with many billions more in total tax levels. In this way, SV can propose welfare reforms that make everyday life easier for most people, even in demanding times that are now. In this way SV can propose 2 billion. more for dealing with the asylum crisis and integration than with the government – inter alia. by increasing the refugee allowance, providing proper housing, providing proper Norwegian training and providing work and education to those who come to Norway. In this way SV can propose a powerful package to combat rising unemployment. Some people have to do this when the government is constantly in deficit and cuts in its own action packages. New assignments to the yard industry, large-scale maintenance and employment efforts in municipalities, better regulation of leave to ensure the competence of our industry, more action places, more study places and an extra effort for the unemployed young people – all this is possible if something other than tax cuts are made. In this way, the SV can take care of international solidarity at a time when it is most needed. There was no way how dissatisfied the Christian People's Party and the Left were with most when the red-green government crashed. I will be honest: I often agreed with the criticism of the Christian People's Party and the Left. It would always have been possible to get more. But what do the Christian People's Party and the Left think now? I heard a single representative from the Left believe that there has been a change of pace in climate policy since the bourgeois took over. This is true, because climate aid and renewable energy funding are cut at a pace we have never seen in Norway before. What do Christian People's Party and Left think now? Canceled climate goals, a State force that is subject to international humiliation, tightening integration policy, which is a recipe for more idleness and more passiveness, more ghettophobia, more social conflict and not least billions of cuts in aid – was it this level of ambition the Christian People's Party and the Left had when they wanted a new government in 2013? SV can propose better well-being and more redistribution with a much lower use of oil money. I am sure that Siv Jensen is well pleased that the oil money industry is increasing sharply every year. But the Prime Minister can't possibly be comfortable with this. The right side in Norway seems to have forgotten something they talked a lot about before, and that's that you have to bake the cake before you divide it. You can't draw the credit card and use the savings of future generations to pay for expenses here and now, and at least not at an ever-increasing rate. There is more than enough money to redeploy and to create new well-being and jobs in Norway instead of using the piggy. You have to bake cake before you divide it. In the long term, there must be a link between the revenue side of the State budget and the expenditure side, and then our oil dependence must be reduced. We have to distribute smarter, and we have to redistribute more. With its increase in oil money, the government makes Norway more dependent on oil instead, and they not least reduce the space we have for action to pursue a proper counter-cyclical policy in the future, if we need it. And it's serious. We need to redistribute much more in Norway. Disparity is one of the greatest challenges of our time. If we lower the tax on low and ordinary income, we can increase the taxes on pollution and taxes on property, without making it unsocial. A few weeks before negotiations begin on tax reform, there is little to be seen either by green tax shifts or by balancing differences in the structure of the majority. What the government has to come with are some fickle tax cuts, where you can afford a bunch of bananas or something, if you save a week. The SV suggests that tax cuts should be taken into account when moving taxes from work to property, in line with the professional advice given to the government, but which they choose to ignore. SV proposes a policy that is completely green and redistributive. I think other parties will, too. I know that many other opposition parties think the same thing. I know the Center Party thinks so. I know that the Workers' Party thinks that to some degree. I know that the Green Party definitely thinks so. But I know that the Christian People's Party and the Left also think so – really. It is a fact that in the distribution policy, the Christian People's Party and the Left would have more success with us than they have with the Right and the Advance Party. In aid policy, the Christian People's Party and the Left would have more success with us than they have with the Right and the Advance Party. In climate policy, they would have a much greater impact on their cooperation with us instead of the Right and the Advance Party. In integration policy, they would have more success with us than with the Right Party and the Progressive Party. It can't be nice to stand here and insist that the cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party gives such a big count – not when we can all see the fasit. We can all see a budgetary settlement that bears the mark of endless quarrels, drama, late evenings, but lack of ambitions. So my appeal to the Christian People's Party and the Left is the following – my appeal to the Syversen, Breivik and Knut Arild Hareide, who are sitting here now, is: I know you're hurting. You don't have to do this. Change the page. Create budgetary settlements with us next year – with the Workers' Party, with the Centre Party, with the SV and with the Environmental Party of the Greens. The country needs it. The unemployed need it. The climate needs it. The thousands that are to be integrated need it. They need it much more than we need the performance of not replacing the page in the middle of a period. We cannot have more of these aid cuts, this pollution, this increase in solidarity and these cuts in the efforts of the unemployed in the West. Change side, Knut Arild. Switch sides, Trine. The budget adopted today represents a lack of future and lost opportunities. It's a budget without ambitions, and with a lot of short-term crisis management, that's not based on professional advice. We could get more teachers and help nurses in the municipalities. We could ensure that the country’s municipalities were in the forefront of integration. We could start the climate change and create new jobs. When the majority get as little as they do, it's not because they lack money – the use of money is record high – but it's because they don't have the ability to prioritize. That's what SV does. That is why I am happy to take up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e705	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e710	I thought I would first congratulate the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen on having become a new Vice-President in SV, but in fact the congratulations should go to SV for a very good choice. Yesterday, SV's new Vice-Chairman announced that in government they increased the tax on so-called rich people by 271,000 kroner a year. Despite this, and with the level of taxation from 2013 as well as the largest economic space in history due to high oil prices, the legacy of the red-green government was increasing unemployment, increased hospital cows, a historical sharp deterioration in competitiveness, declining productivity, 5,000 refugees with approved residence in queues on asylum receptions for residence and, in fact, 15 000 more poor children than when the red-greens took over in 2005. More money and increased taxes are obviously not a solution in themselves. How does SV believe that increased taxes and taxes on business and so-called richness will contribute to the creation of value and jobs that Norway needs in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e719	Thank you for your congratulations. It is not SV who in this year's budget proposes to increase the tax for the richest groups by 271,000 kroner. It was the red-green government that carried out the tax increases when we crashed. SV's proposal is NOK 268 000, and that's because in SV we also know to show moderation. Then it is that productivity is not decreasing, nor was it when the red-green ones crashed. The growth of productivity has been slowing down. But it's not that productivity will go up by e.g. creating more temporary, more uncertain and more part-time jobs, as productivity declines. What I'm most proud of is that SV got a pass in its years of government, is that the differences in Norway went down, the proportion of the poor went down, and I should have liked to go much further. It was also my intention in the class struggle yesterday to challenge the other parties to reintroduce a tax policy not so much in line with the SV's primary position, but at least as redistributive as what we have had in Norway in previous times, as the differences were much smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e730	The end of the post of the representative from SV reminds me of a large person who once said, ‘I have a dream’. I am not so sure that it will be fulfilled. The Committee notes from SV that: ‘This member believes that Norway is now in need of a sound and effective budget, in line with three challenges: the flow of refugees, the climate crisis and increasing unemployment in Norway.’ The SV's answer is then a tens of billion kroner in higher taxes and charges for those who create jobs, so that they get a more difficult job to get jobs. It's in my opinion logic on a very high level. So it is that the government got the boat fee removed, and it proposes SV to reintroduce it. That means people have to go back to marinating old engines, keep the engines a lot longer, instead of switching to new engines with the latest technology. That SV is known to be opposed to private business, I know, but that they are also that of the environment, was a little surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e744	We have a comprehensive environmental policy, and that means, for example, that we think what the majority is doing to increase the electricity tax, but not the CO2 tax, is a strange priority. Those who create jobs in Norway are not the ones who own the jobs. Those who create jobs in Norway are the most people. The people who do the job are the people who create the jobs in Norway. Those who create demand are those who create jobs in Norway. That's why we have a tax and distribution scheme that works so that even if you drive twice as much diesel as the average in Norway, even if you use twice as much electricity as the average in Norway does, and even if we introduce a property tax in addition to green taxes, you go in plus with SV's scheme because we move taxes from those who have ordinary incomes, and those who have low incomes, to those who earn the most. It's a policy that I should think the Progress Party really had the sense of – the party for people most, as they say they are. Then we also increase the depreciation rates for investment in the business world and lower accordingly in the oil industry because we have a forward-looking industrial policy and not just an industrial policy that is about to waste money on the industries that are going down, as the Progress Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e754	The representative Serigstad Valen is a good speaker, and I can say that he spoke directly to me! I want to challenge the representative on two things. The only thing is the air passenger charge, which is a good SV proposal, but in the debate so far it is SV's red-green veins that speak strongly against. It's the Workers' Party, and it's the Center Party. What does the representative Serigstad Valen think about the report that the Workers' Party and the Centre give the good SV proposal? Another example is that we now get two teachers in the first, second, third and fourth classes. It is also a policy that the Christian People's Party and the SV have been united about, and for which we are now getting an impact. I should like to hear the idea of the two proposals against the budget we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e765	I would like to congratulate the Christian People's Party and the Left on the impact of the air passenger fee, even though it is named after Limi – the honour has to be shared. And to be absolutely honest, I think it's a bit embarrassing that both the Center Party and the Workers' Party looked until those degrees are running at the air passenger fee. The Labour Party has a national meeting decision to investigate it itself, and it is needed to provide a more climate-friendly society. We chose to increase the CO2 tax instead of our fee scheme last year, we proposed air passenger charges last year, and that is because we want to make visible different ways of implementing the green shift in each of our alternative state budget. But we wholeheartedly support the introduction, and we also promote a proposal to differentiate between districts and large cities, which I hope the Christian People's Party will support in return. Then I would also like to congratulate several teachers. There is one thing we both burn for, and therefore I repeat my call: Change side, Hareide! Because if we work together, we can, in addition to more teachers, air passengers’ fees and better climate policies, increase assistance instead of cutting it and increase the measures for the unemployed in the South West instead of cutting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e777	I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the representative Serigstad Valen on his election as Vice-President – a good choice for SV. So I want to talk a little bit about colleges and colleges. In 2012, a report entitled Demand for and Offer of Fellowships was published by 2020. It appeared that we have a need in Norway for about 300–400 scholarship holders each year. That means we're way behind it if we set it as a goal. And when I look at SV's budget proposal, it is good that they have invested in both FRIPRO and the Research Council on Basic Research and Strategic Investments, but I can't see that SV has spent money on basic appropriations, on scholarship holders or on post-doc positions. My question is, isn't it a little stupid not to bet on something as important as scholarship holders, post doc positions and basic appropriations to our universities and colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e784	I would like to thank you for your congratulations. And then I would warn you a little bit against the fact that the Left of All, in this very budget debate, uses the term 'busy', with a budget with such a significant and historic cut in e.g.. aid, in response to climate change, and with the support of a government that has now cancelled Norway’s climate objectives. Then it is absolutely right that not all of our points in higher education and research policy are within our alternative budget this year. That's because we give priority. We're going to use 7 billion. oil crowns less than the government at a time when we also had to cover not only $9.5 billion. kr to increased refugee costs, but much more, since we believe that the additional proposition to the government is underfunded. But, as I also pointed out myself, there is a strong increase in renewable research. We're increasing in basic research for the Research Council. We are proud of the budget we have put forward, but I join the representative of Nybø's wish to strengthen the efforts of fellows.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e794	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e797	The role of the Green Party and our budget in Norwegian policy is to show that more ambitious and more committed action to change towards a green economy is both necessary, possible and effective. If we are to keep global warming below 2 degrees, the world has 20 years left with today's level of emissions before all the coal-fired power stations in China must be gone or have zero emissions, and Norway, India, Ukraine, Venezuela, South Africa, etc. must have completed the transition to a renewable energy and transport sector. We're not going to make it. In this way, we definitely also know that the costs, both human and economic, are becoming enormous and increasing for every year that we are postponing climate and environmental action. The Norwegian financial debate of the year must be measured against these future costs. It seems obvious that the Greens are once again teasing the climate and the environment when we are discussing the state budget itself, while unemployment is growing, the issue of refugees is acute and the security policy agenda is more problematic than it is for a long time. The point, of course, is that environmental challenges are so fundamental and that environmental, climate, unemployment, refugee and security policies are increasingly linked. The hopes that we can keep the climate and environmental measures on the blush while fixing leave and refugees will be more wrong for every year that goes. The environmental and climate problems are embedded in the results of the way we have planned, budgeted and driven our economy for many decades. So what Norway is facing is that in a few decades we have to convert to a fossil-free world and some kind of circular economy. Very little is said for us to be able to make such changes with the marginal adjustments that traditional annual budgeting has made us accustomed to – especially when the majority has failed to use the exceptionally stable well-being period of the last decades to make any significant changes. This year's cooperation budget contains new measures for business and refugees, for whom the Left and Christian People's Party must be praised, and for which the Right and the Advance Party must be commended for their acceptance. Air fares and more to public transport and forest protection reward schemes are good, but, as usual, the main point is that the budget at the same time contains priorities and cuts that work well in the opposite direction. Norway is once again receiving a government budget without the slightest hint of how much greenhouse gas Norway will actually release in 2016. Instead, there is an explosive growth in the allocation of motorways, billions of dollars in subsidies for oil and gas production and a historically deep cut in aid, including climate and environmental objectives. That is why the Greens are putting forward an alternative state budget where we are proposing a green tax shift of 30 billion. kr, mainly environmental taxes, we propose to start a phase out of what the International Monetary Fund considers to be 20 billion. kr in oil subsidies, and we're proposing to move 5 billion. kr from road construction to environmentally friendly transport. We take seriously that we are the ones to help people escape, and that help to others in the long term is investment we ourselves will make. We will not do that by taking money from help to other poor people, and therefore we are protecting and strengthening the aid budget. We think it's wrong to imagine people that the prerequisites for doing a green shift are that it should happen without notable costs and consequences. We see no reason to pretend that the green shift can be free or risk-free, but we point out first of all that there are large, unused possibilities for effective change with a positive effect embedded in today's budgeting. The Norwegian charging policy is an example. Today, it is to a large extent a sum of historical coincidences, and in an environmental perspective, it is largely on the go. For example, businesses and most people live with very high taxes on cars and alcohol, but when an environmental tax is proposed at the level of a pint of beer on climate-critically underpriced air travel, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the NHO jump off their hinges. But the number of flights has to go down if we're going to do something to bring down the emissions in the transport sector. That's why the Greens are proposing a seat charge not in the order of magnitude with a pint of skirt, but with a bottle of whiskey – well, with protection for areas with poor collective options. Such a charge will do what we have to do, to reduce the number of flights, but it will also take in so much money that they can be used for something important, namely to fully finance the refugee bill of about $9.5 billion. kr. This is one of many examples of possibilities. We therefore have great expectations that the Green Tax Commission will really look at the possibilities of using taxes and taxes much more systematically to distort business, consumption and behaviour in the green direction. Of course, the right and others are right that we cannot simply convert the country by using more and more charges. The point of levying some additional taxes and taxes is not that the country should estab­lish but that it should reinvest in new industrial developments and new jobs. So, in addition to reducing the use of oil money, increasing aid and taking quite a lot of environmental action, the Greens will invest 8.5 billion. kr in the green economy of the future. The government shows great and deserving willingness to invest in research. Innovation and entrepreneurial activities are supported in a better way than before, producing a lot of knowledge, new technological concepts and a lot of opportunities. However, when Norway comes to the point where these ideas require capital to be commercialised, Norwegian policy has traditionally thrown the cards and left the further development to market and technology-neutral systems that make the priorities. The result of that is, as we see, lean. There is little help in developing ideas when the end result is that Statoil must take its groundbreaking Hywind turbine to the other side of the North Sea to get British state aid for commercialisation on a large scale, and it is the British that get jobs and tax revenues. That is why the Green Party proposes concrete action for green industry development in four areas: We're making it easier to start new businesses in Norway. We give self-employed workers the right to minimum deductions on the same line as employees. We are proposing extensive investment in bioeconomy to increase the commercialisation of biobased value creation, and we are proposing the creation of a Bionova, following the Enova model, to put money and systems behind biosetting. We propose measures that will trigger large investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. And we're proposing action to build up the maritime industry in Norway further. Several speakers have pointed out that the harvest budget is a taste for a future with tougher priorities for Norwegian fiscal politicians. Receiving 10,000 people on the run from war and distress is something we risk continuing to experience a lot of it in the coming years. The Greens are ready to be on tough priorities, but we're not ready to be on priorities that are the same as shooting ourselves in the foot. The aid budget is a tool to prevent people from being forced to flee. A historical cut in environmental, climate and green energy aid of 5-6 p.p. is to shoot yourself in the foot. The Green Party believes that this cut is serious in itself, but it is also an ominous type of priority given that the live belt needs to be tightened in general in the budgets that are coming. The Green Party is presenting today a draft budget that invests more in building future business, cutting greenhouse gas emissions and more in conservation of nature and health, while starting to slow down oil dependence and money use to finance the costs of refugees, in a climate-efficient way. Our budget is not adopted today, but we are sure that the ideas we sow here are going to appear in the budget of other parties in the years to come. I therefore refer to the Greens' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e840	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e845	In its alternative budget, the Green Party states that quality of life, long-term sustainability and sustainability are more important than private consumption. The Nordics have a high consumption. Much of this consumption should become more environmentally conscious, and some of it may be reduced because it is unnecessary. I think it is a good thing that the Greens should give priority to this through their budgets. They choose to move closer to 30 billion. kr to change our consumption pattern. Reduction in consumption requires a change in attitude, and this occurs over time. It involves more knowledge and involves more priorities. It seems a bit as if the Greens base their budgets on this change of attitude over the night. My question to the representative Hansson is, how realistic is this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e852	Thank you, Mr Kaur, for raising a key issue for the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. The Greens don't think that changes can happen overnight, but we don't think that changes will happen if you don't try to start them. The point of the way we budget, which probably has to be strengthened in the years to come, is to do what other parties have not done so far, that is to start taking hold of and using, among other things. the system of charges for distortion of consumption against greener consumption. We have the possibilities through the charging system, but there are opportunities that are used very little, as we show that can be used in a way that works, and of course we also hope that the Workers' Party will look more closely in the years and months that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e859	Earlier this year, the Green Party was involved in the so-called Syria agreement, and one of the things they got a lot of credit for was that they were involved in taking responsibility in an important and critical situation. Then, as a big one, during the fall we also had to deal with the price we have to pay for this crisis, and how we're going to deal with it. There, the Green Party has chosen to stand outside and will not take responsibility for taking on the important promises and has therefore also signed up to the entire integration debate. I have also looked at their alternative state budget, and there are mainly fees increases in order to be covered. I wonder, then, what charges will the Greens will reduce if the influx of asylum is slowed down?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e866	On the question of participation in a majority for the further development of refugee policy, Mr Kapur has quite rightly stated that we were very committed to participating, both in the previous conciliation and in the negotiations this time, but we were very disappointed that the negotiations we had this time involved measures that weaken integration, in addition to the measures that we supported, which were effective in dealing with the situation at the border. We would have liked to be involved in taking responsibility for a more effective management of the situation at the border – receiving refugees – but we could not be involved in a meddling of things that will weaken integration and that will actually increase the cost of refugee management in Norway in the years to come. If we hadn't, we'd have been here together about an effective reception policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e871	Some of what I think has been so good about the Greens' Environment Party is that they have done a rather difficult combination, by being a fresh opposition party and at the same time being with and taking responsibility. I hear that the representative Hansson boasts about the air passenger charges that have arrived, but he wants it at a much higher level. He suggests a whisky bottle – I am a little uncertain about how much is, but in the size range 300-600 kroner after what I am hearing. My question is: does the representative Hansson believe that it is a good starting point to start with a fee at such a high level? So this is the first time we've introduced it. We're going to start with a level of $80, also because we don't know all of the consequences. Is it right to take such a big step already in the first year? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e880	Of course, the representative Hareide points out that introducing a level of charges proposed by the Green Party would have a shocking effect. But as I said, our budget is an attempt to describe what needs to be done, what can be done, and what will have an effect. And when you look at how air travel is priced in Norway today, where it costs a couple of hundred bills to go on a weekend trip to London to drink beer for much more than the fare of the airline ticket, that means that these are costs that are not close to paying for the environmental costs, and that must be much higher if they are to do so. We suggest a level that starts to look like the level of fees that the Christian People's Party must apply if it's going to be effective. The level is likely to be even higher if air tickets are to cost like the environmental costs. So this is an invitation to others to look at the realities of the charging needs, and to look at the benefits of using environmental taxes effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e889	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e892	We're in challenging times. Many people are on the move and the security policy situation is difficult. While we experience a great influx of asylum seekers, it is contrary to our own economy. People lose their jobs and businesses are being challenged. I am pleased that the Stortinget has reached an agreement on measures to tighten up asylum so that we can get control of the influx. Today's asylum policy is not adapted to the reality of today, and the asylum crisis has shown that fundamental changes are absolutely necessary. A more stringent and fairer asylum policy is the first step in the right direction, but it does not mean that we are in the right direction. Norway has sent a clear signal of a tighter asylum policy, and we expect the influx to decline. But there will still be a need to follow developments around us. We all agree that we should have sufficient and worthy arrangements for asylum seekers, but we cannot have arrangements that are so good that more than what is natural, Norway chooses as a country of reception. In the future, integration will be central to tackling the situation. The goal must be for those who are allowed to stay to learn Norwegian quickly and get out of work. High professional participation, both among immigrants and others, is a prerequisite for maintaining our welfare society. We cannot succeed in integrating unless we solve the challenges we face in our own economy. Lower growth contributions from the oil industry are a lasting structural change. Although the oil industry will be very important for the Norwegian economy for many years to come, it will no longer be a growth engine for the mainland economy. The main response cannot then be short-term action. A large-scale expansion of the public sector cannot be the answer either. Norway is already among OECD countries with the highest level of public employment. The main response must be to measures for growth in private, competitive industries. We need to create more new ones. Several of us need to set up new businesses. And more start-ups need to grow more. Then we have to think longer than just one year. Key measures in the government’s draft budget are measures that promote growth and employment in the Norwegian economy, not just next year, but for years to come. The 2016 budget is a budget for work, activity and migration. We focus on investments in transport, research and innovation, knowledge and growth-promoting tax relief. In the work on the additional number, the government has had two objectives. One has been providing concrete measures to reduce inflows; the other is to manage the financing of the situation in Norway, without weakening the welfare of most people and the efforts for work, activity and conversion. Tax reform is the most important structural policy approach for creating new jobs. The reform involves primarily lower taxes on companies, but at the same time we lower the tax on ordinary people to help more people want to work more. A tax system that increases competitiveness in Norwegian enterprises and gives good incentives to save, invest and work will facilitate the necessary transitions and increase productivity in the economy. With the economic challenges now facing the country, a tax reform with real tax relief is the correct answer to creating new jobs. The fall in the oil price has contributed to the Norwegian economy now experiencing a low economic downturn. Growth in the mainland economy has slowed, and many now experience insecurity for their jobs. The last Nav figures support the picture we have seen in the last year, with large regional differences in the number of unemployed. In particular, in the South and West, and for engineers and other groups who have worked to deliver goods and services to the oil industry, the unemployment rate has increased. In several other sectors and parts of the country, the unemployment rate has remained unchanged or decreased. In this situation, it is right to use fiscal policies to stimulate activity and employment and to combat unemployment. For 2016, the government is adding up to an increase in the use of oil and fund income of 0,7 pst. of the gross domestic product of mainland Norway, which is higher than the average in recent years. In order to contribute to increased employment in areas particularly affected by the setback, the government proposed a targeted 4 billion package of measures in the budget. kr. The package consists of appropriations to clean up hospitals, schools and ships, maintenance of roads, innovation and several jobless areas. There are measures that can have a rapid impact and can easily be stepped down as the economic cycle improves. The budget negotiations have provided some measures in the package with a different device, but the main lines of the action package are fixed. Within the transport sector, a greater part of the maintenance will be done by rail than by road. However, the package continues to increase activity, and the government has focused on targeting measures to those countries that notice increasing unemployment. Overall, economic policy now has a strong impact. The monetary policy is the first line defense when the economy encounters resistance, and the governance rate is reduced to record low 0.75 pst. Low crown rates are welcome to help to attract goods to the world and a competitive business that needs to change. At the same time, the growth of our trading partners has taken up a little bit in recent years, and we are expecting further growth next year. That's good for us. We now see that exports from the mainland are increasing, and that activity in the tourism industry is increasing. There is uncertainty about the further development of the Norwegian economy. Hopefully 2016 is an exceptional year. When growth in the economy rises and unemployment declines again, the action package for increased employment could be reversed and the phase-in of oil revenue could reach a more normal level. I note that some criticise the government for spending too much oil money. However, the alternative budgetary proposals show slight differences, especially when taking into account the unrealistic nature of some of the containment proposals. The big difference between us and the Workers' Party is that they propose large tax increases in a demanding time and will spend everything on increased public expenditure. It's a misguided policy. It does not contribute to conversion and it does not enhance growth capacity. When the action rule was introduced in 2001, an overall financial committee agreed that increased oil money consumption should go to areas that increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. We mentioned tax relief, transportation and knowledge in particular. This government is taking it seriously. A commitment to transport and knowledge has been a main priority for us as long as we have been in government. We have spent much more of the space for action in the budgets for these growth-promoting purposes than the previous government did. In the current situation, it is more important than ever to prioritise precisely these areas, as we do in the 2016 budget. Government policy is based on the most efficient use of Community resources. We have launched major important reforms in the municipalities, the police, the university and higher education sectors and the transport sector. To increase productivity in the Norwegian economy, we make business simplifications, we strengthen competition policy and streamline tax collection, and we focus on the digitisation of the public sector. And we are continuing the red tape and efficiency reform in the public sector that we introduced last year. Together with tax reform and investment in growth-enhancing areas, these structural policies respond to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy in the coming years. The most important thing for the government is that as much as possible has a safe job to go to. Our main challenge now is to generate growth in private, competitive industries. This is why the government is targeting long-term measures. We have worked out a new and better course for the Norwegian economy. I am pleased that the four cooperation parties have reached an agreement on the budget for 2016. It is a budget that takes account of the main features of the budget proposed by the Government, where the main objective was precisely to ensure work, activity and conversion. The main device of the short-term package of measures has been secured and the long-term challenges of conversion have been highlighted. It has helped to provide targeted tax reductions that can stimulate new investment in Norwegian business in the years to come. I'm very pleased with the consensus we're now seeing. It ensures a good budget for the country, and – not least – it ensures good governance over a difficult year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e948	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e951	In the election campaign, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance announced a package of measures to combat unemployment. It seemed that the most important thing about it was that it should be larger than the working party – and not necessarily the content. I have to admit that we stumbled a little as it turned out that the package of measures consisted largely of the government's maintenance budget, but I leave it right now. Maintenance is good. We're going to vote against most of it. However, government party representatives will end up voting against several of these items tonight – items sold as extraordinary employment measures – because they have disappeared, either through the add-on or through the conciliation. Stavanger Aftenblad has tried to ask the Ministry of Finance about the size of the action package now, and they have not received an answer to that. That's why I'm trying here. The question to the Minister of Finance is: What is the Government's package of measures after additions and conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e958	Let me first say that I am responding to the attempts to spread uncertainties related to the package of measures, which the Workers' Party and the Centre have been breaking up for the last few days. In fact, we are in a situation where it is very important that people in the South and Western countries who are now experiencing increased uncertainty know that the Storting will follow with decisions that will ensure a good and effective 2016 package of measures. As I said in my post, the main features of the package of measures were maintained through the budget negotiations in Stortinget. I would like to remind the representative Marthinen that the additional number that the government also presented to the Stortinget has significant employment effects. I think, frankly, that in the situation we are in now, we have to be able to raise our eyes and be concerned that we are both going to deliver on the short-term steps that are conducive to increased unemployment, and on the conversion measures that are crucial to the long-term development of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e965	I do not get an answer to the question here. I am generally opposed to spreading uncertainty. That's why we've gone into what's actually going on in the different budget lines. We see that the one-time maintenance grant in the municipalities is 500 million. kr is gone, maintenance of the national road network is cut by 340 million. kr, the various maintenance investments in hospital buildings have been cut by 25 million. kr, renewal and programme area measures by national road are cut by 150 million. kr, maintenance and rehabilitation, including prisons, are cut by 70 million. kr, forsaking of screening and flood protection projects has been cut by 50 million. SEK, the maintenance and upgrade of a research vessel has been cut by 100 million. kr – and there are several items. It's quite true that there's something more on the railway, but together, this sums up to a cut of about 1 billion. kr in what has been promoted as an employment measure. Can the Minister of Finance at least confirm whether these figures are correct or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e974	Let me first say that it is almost incredible that the Workers' Party is trying to criticise the move of transport money from road to rail made in the budget agreement, when they in their own alternative budget proposal reduce road pricing more than that. That's the truth. Then it is that what the cooperation parties have done through the budgetary agreement is not to cut the package of measures, but they have redeployed the areas to which the employment effect will go. With all due respect, I mean what I said instead. I warn against spreading uncertainty about the package of measures, as the Workers' Party is now doing. This is a good and effective package of measures that, in particular, provides the South and West in a good way, and which also has a strong employment impact in a wide range of other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e983	In fact, when you look at the agreement, you also have to look at where you put money, and that is in areas that will have a significant employment impact on the South and the West. You can, for example: not both say – as others did in the past – that it is being cut off from regional development funds, and then regret that they are coming back to a settlement. So right now I agree more with the Minister of Finance. I got a little excited about this – but the use of oil money I want to get back to, because the Minister of Finance says that hopefully 2016 is an exceptional year in terms of the economy. And when you see the national budget and projections, that's what you also say in those documents. Has the Minister of Finance been reassured by developments since the budget was presented regarding the long-term impact of the phase-out that we now see of some oil-related industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e990	I believe that the negotiated budgetary unit respects the main importance of the instruments that the government believes were necessary to implement for 2016, in order to address the short-term challenges, but in particular to address the long-term challenges. So I'm very pleased with the consensus that lies there. But I think we have to take on board that the challenges for oil and gas-related business are big, and the forecasts for investment are not good in the short picture. So what we have to hope for is that this is stabilizing fast, so that we can get a normalised growth outlook for the Norwegian economy. But I say, I hope that 2016 will be an exceptional year and that we will see a more normal economic development again in 2017. But it remains to be seen. That is why it is important that the instruments we have now agreed should work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e995	In October, the Minister of Finance was very well able to say that the package of measures was 4 billion. kr, e.g. 500 million. kr for construction measures for which the municipalities were to be responsible. When the carpenters had found a case and hammer, there was NOK 0 left for the purpose. Then the Minister of Finance accuses the opposition of spreading uncertainty. Let me make it very clear: the only thing that spreads uncertainty for the unemployed in the West is that the country's finance minister does not know how large the package of measures is. The Stortinget can get an answer: What is the size of the package? It was 4 billion. kr in October, it was the Ministry of Finance that was able to calculate. How big is it today? An answer is expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1000	I believe that I responded to it already in my contribution, because I said that the main features of the government's package of measures are firm, but that the negotiations that have taken place in the Stortinget have re-prioritized from some point of view for other purposes, but with a good employment effect in order to meet the short-term unemployment challenge. Then, of course, there are many other measures in the budget that will also work. After all, it is not secondary to record appropriations for transport investment and maintenance. It is not secondary to the fact that the measures included in the additional number related to dealing with the flow of asylum and refugees also have an employment effect. So I believe that, overall, we are making good contributions to the Norwegian economy for 2016 that will strengthen employment in the short term – but even more importantly: address the longer-term migration challenges. I had hoped that the Center Party too would be interested in raising its eyes and looking at the long-term challenges facing the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1007	There are imaginative questions from the cooperation party today! Today, we are making up the 2016 budget with a record high level of oil money use, and we are increasing the expenditure side of a government budget that is already very, very large, no matter what comparable countries we look up to. In the additional number from the government, the government itself writes that stimulating the economy through the state budget now balances well in view of the two most important drivers we have for business, krona and interest rates, in disfavor of Norwegian business and value creation. So the question is whether the Minister has agreed with the Left and his own expert selection that today's oil money use is not sustainable in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1014	Firstly, I have experienced that everyone who has commented on the state budget from the outside believes it is a budget that is well adapted to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. And I sincerely believe that when we create a budget, we first have to address what economic challenges the Norwegian economy is facing, and then to assess what measures we are going to take. So this is an expansive budget, but it's responding well to the challenges of the Norwegian economy. The committee of experts to which the representative refers has also pointed out the importance of taking account of economic developments, and I believe that we must do so every year when we make a budget. But, as I also said in my post, given that the situation is now normalizing, that means that we can bring down the effect, for example. of the action package, which has a stronger demand stimulus on the economy than one would have had without.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1022	To be honest, I have problems seeing more asylum recipients around the country helping unemployed engineers and carpenters and skilled workers in South West. And it's a fact that when the state budget was put forward, it was 500 million. kr in employment and maintenance measures sold in municipalities, as a major measure to tackle unemployment. Then it was reduced to 200 million. In the supplementary number from the government, the government stressed that the 200 million should go to the South-West as a whole, because there are the major problems of employment. Now they're gone, and then it's no use hiding behind us that we have increased refugee and asylum costs. These are costs that are incurred throughout the country and have a similar effect across the country – not the South-West, where thousands of people in the last year have lost their jobs. What is the current action package on unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1029	As I have now tried to answer many times, the main features of the package of measures presented by the government to the Stortinget are fixed – and further reinforced by the effects of the additional number that we presented after the budget was presented. Then, through budgetary negotiations, the four parties have made some changes to the priorities of this package, and it has been important for the government to stress the importance of maintaining the specifically targeted measures against the South and West to mitigate negative developments in unemployment. And as I also said in a previous line: there are many different measures and instruments in this budget that target the challenges facing the Norwegian economy now. It is true that both investment, maintenance, local economy and targeted measures, overall and separately, are remedying the developments we are now experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1036	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1039	The harvest has offered dramatic and major events that have had much legitimate attention: the large number of refugees who started to arrive from August, the tragedy surrounding the terror in Paris – and in the same world city, land and leaders are now gathering to save the climate. Had it not been for these events, unemployment would probably get much more attention. The increase in unemployment continues, the number of unemployed is approaching 130 000, the highest being over 20 years. It is demanding and difficult to attend Christmas, for the unemployed, for the family, for the company and for the community. For the Workers' Party, work for all has been our political priority at all times, and it is now reflected in our time. We have not prioritised tax cuts with biased social profile and weakly documented impact on activity and work. We have prioritised measures that can contribute to new activity in companies that are in transition. We have prioritised better financing of the tasks the municipalities are set to solve. We have listened to the parties and proposed amendments to legislation on laying permits from 30 to 52 weeks, several places of action, several places of study and a special lift for young people outside the labour market. We have given much more priority to collective action in the big cities. We have greatly expanded the climate technology fund, which can finance pilot projects in industry. For this debate, our alternative budget stands as an illustration that another way is possible. There is a line from our alternative budget last year to our proposal this year. We want a more united commitment to growth across the country, to work, climate, public health and strong communities. It has been a feature of modern Norway that unemployment is low and employment is high. It's dramatic for our social contract when active people become walking inactive. When the goal of work for all fails, important aspects of the modern social contract are shattered. Trust is weakened, it also makes the ability to solve tasks together, set goals together, allocate efforts together, and prioritise resources together. That is why we must re-emphasise political attention to work and the fight against unemployment. At the same time, work is the red thread in several of the major and important challenges we are facing today. In addition to meeting a growing unemployment rate, it is about contributing to jobs in businesses where emissions are falling to zero. Work, together with Norwegian skills, becomes a key strategy for the successful integration of the many who have arrived and will live in Norway. The budget on which the majority gathers does not have good enough answers. We'll get there during the presentation of the equation – four different presentations, different emphasis, in some unclear profile. No one had put forth any effort to combat unemployment as a matter of principle. In the days that followed, the dispute arose over who had the idea of the fare. It puts the budget in a strange light, at a time when the State budget should have been the most powerful tool of policy to point out a new direction, give priority to bets, show leadership. The budget should also have shown a clearer direction in terms of climate. Norway has a number of activities that are at the forefront of environmental technology and which are well placed to take strong market positions. Innovations take place in the company, and then policies must play an active role. The Workers' Party will facilitate more green transition in the business world. We want to focus more on what we know works, like further developing Enova and ensuring that more major industrial projects are supported. We are proposing a strong increase in the climate technology fund compared to the government, so that we reach 100 billion. kr by 2017. We want to study the proposals of the Green Tax Commission with interest, but we already know something. Instead of a seat charge with uncertain power and a tax on electricity produced with pure Norwegian hydropower, we suggest that the price of fossil fuels should be increased. With this rear carpet, we now have to look forward to the climate area. In these days, the government commits Norway to contribute 40 pst. cut in emissions in 2030. It has the broad support of the Storting. This problem is big, and it's short by 2030. The changes will not happen on their own. Should the enterprise, the consumer and the investor really change its course, need predictability and clear signals. This is where the government delivers poor leadership. The target of 40 pst. reduction should be anchored in an agreement with the EU. Now the Prime Minister says that we risk not having an agreement with the EU until we write in 2017. In the spring we heard that the government would set up an agreement of intent before the climate negotiations. So it didn't make it any of that. It is time to put the climate plans in place only in 2017. That is why the Workers' Party has called for a new climate settlement here in Stortinget. The previous government was a majority government, but nevertheless invited to two broad agreements on climate policy, the last in 2012. This government is a minority government and has been responsible for two out of three years since the last settlement. Instead of showing political leadership and taking responsibility, the government is now trying to push responsibility backwards. The climate challenge requires that we look forward to it. It is time for the Storting to take responsibility and gather about long-term and credible climate policies that reduce emissions. Work, climate, integration – in all these areas, we must succeed in transition. Migration is not a crisis response; it is mobilising the capacity of society as a whole to renew, adjust, think and act in new ways. The Norwegian Labour Model has been characterised by a well-organised working and business life, strong employment organisations, the country as an active third party, high levels of professional participation, small differences and low unemployment. In this organisation is the key to Norwegian migration. Conversion has been refuted in the story of how Norway went from being a poor society to where we are today. Every year, it disappears up to 10 pst. of the jobs in Norway, while it has so far been created about 10 pst. new jobs. If there's one thing we know, it's that conversion is easier to achieve when people feel safe; secure to receive new workmates with a different background and experience, safe to face technological changes as an opportunity, not just as a threat. In an age of increasing unemployment, we need to pay particular attention to unprofessional actors, the crime of working life and social dumping. The government's labour market policy has so far been characterised by weaknesses in the Labour Environment Act, social tax cuts with little effect and a passive wait-and-see attitude. This is crazy medicine in the face of a situation that requires initiatives and creativity to include new groups in the labour market. We have now started work on a broad agreement for better integration. Work, jobs, must be central here. Those who are going to stay in Norway must enter the Norwegian social contract as soon as possible where we do our duty and claim our right, so that we can all become workers, contributors and taxpayers. We're going to do this without going down the path of lower standards and minimum wages. New people in training and work will take part in Norwegian employment under Norwegian pay and working conditions. Then we need active employment policies, a stronger focus on vocational training and a serious working life. The Labour Party has proposed a stronger professional effort, more language training and action against social dumping. Such measures were missing in the additional number from the government earlier in the autumn. I now hope that the parties at Stortinget can agree on the necessary measures, so that we can take care of the best quality in the Norwegian working life model. A main division between the Labour Party and the Right Party government is about what we should solve together, invest in together, mobilise for together – and where we are best served to solve the problems for each of us. Unlike the government budget, the Labour Party will give priority to a strong and predictable local economy. We do that to ensure better schooling, better care for the elderly, better local health. We want to use the action space in the Norwegian economy to invest in the future. Despite record oil money usage, the Right Party and the Progress Party are unable to deliver a municipal budget that takes the challenges of the future seriously: strong population growth, older people, growing cities, climate change and the settlement of refugees. In response to such challenges, tight local government budgets combined with record high oil money spending to finance unsocial tax cuts are going wrong. The government thus leaves the difficult choices and tough priorities of the local people elected – and in total to future generations. Our alternative budget shows a different direction in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1092	It's going to be line change. Before we start the line change, the president will point out that we have some computer problems, but we think we've now caught up with which four people have asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1097	The representative is concerned with high oil money use and his alternative budget, and there is a lot of time in the Workers' Party's attitude to criticising our oil money usage, which is far below the rule of action, in fact 90 billion. kr this year, and it'll be even smaller until next year. The Labour Party's alternative, on the other hand, is to cheat on the figures. You've spent five billion dollars. kr, which are taxes that will not enter until next year, i.e. in 2017, the tax afterpayment plus a financial tax that is not feasible. I would like to ask the representative Gahr Støre, which of the priorities he was now in, together with 5 billion. kr, will he remove from his alternative budget to budget realistically and properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1104	I notice that the representative here calls his partner Christian People's Party a cheater, because the Christian People's Party proposes to tax the financial industry from 1 July, which was also what the partner did. We believe that this industry can do it. We have an effective tax rate, they're ready to do it, and we could start that phase-in there. Then I think it's a strange claim the representative comes along. We've been dealing with the bunch of proceeds from the government, from the Ministry of Finance. It is obvious that enterprises will adapt gradually to regulatory changes also in the field of interest rates, and thus significant proceeds will be received in 2016 if the interest rate calculation rule is tightened. So what we've chosen is a sober estimate. We've been dealing with the answers we get from the government, so we've been able to put this money into the budget. I would also like to say that it is a strange lesson to get from parties who in their time in opposition have used the most generous steps to put money into their alternative budgets. The Labour Party has been the neccessary party and is also the beneficiary of this budget in its budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1113	Point 6 of the Agreement on the Asylum of Infringements reads as follows: ‘Provide that the level of benefits for asylum seekers should be such that Norway does not appear economically attractive in relation to comparable European countries.’ Further to the agreement, it will be opened for, inter alia: replacing cash benefits against payment cards. However, the comments on the Workers’ Party under the heading ‘Inmigration and Integration’ state that ‘these members wish to continue the current daily daily allowance rates’. Can the representative Gahr Støre clarify whether it is the agreement on the tightening of benefits signed by the parliamentary leader, who is the Labour Party's policy, or is it the observations of the Labour Party's fiscal politicians that are in force?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1132	Of course, it's both. What we're looking at is the whole of the benefits, the financial arrangements that we have, that when we compare with other countries, shouldn't stand out. We know that from how the currents are going. But that's not the way the Progress Party obviously adds that we're going to take each of these items, compared to where it's the lowest in the world, and then we're going to go to that level. When we go in and look at the performances, we see that Norway as a whole is about where other countries are located. We're a more expensive country to live in, so we have to look at the purchasing power in relation to the benefits that are, and how they work. In this context, I believe that the wording of the asylum agreement is good. In total, Norway should have schemes that do not make Norway particularly attractive compared to other countries. Then we have to look at how each system works, and in that sense these are very wise wordings, both in the asylum agreement and in the budgetary note.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1137	Not only did the national budget come in on 7 October, but the government also presented a proposal for tax reform, a tax reform that both the representative – and the party leader – Gahr Støre said he would like a broad deal around. We know that we need a tax reform, we need to lower taxes on work and bring down corporate taxes. One of the things that we also need to do is to appreciate how to act environmentally friendly, and that we also have an economic incentive to act that way. There are, among other things: with good taxes, which ensures it, and one of the suggestions we have now made is an air passenger charge. But I notice that the Labour Party so far in this debate has not said any positive words about that fee. My question is, if we're going to get a broad tax settlement, are we not going to have to look at different charges that are just contributing to giving us a better environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1145	I think the answer to that is yes. In the context of the tax settlement, we're completely open to looking at that kind of question. We are waiting with interest for the Green Tax Commission to come up with its proposals, and it is quite right, as some have pointed out, that we have a national meeting decision to investigate aviation-related matters – aircraft seats, air passengers. But maybe unlike what was the case in the government and in the cooperation parties, we want an investigation of it. Here this came to mind very quickly. And we believe that we need to look at how it works – the differentiation in relation to the real impact it has on the climate. How high it should be is not good to say. There was a discussion about the price of a bottle of whiskey in the debate the other day. The store's press release gave me a bottle of whiskey last week that must be worth nearly NOK 1000 – it might be going a bit far. But the Workers' Party is going to be ready to discuss many models in this context, but we're going to do it so that it really works, considering both the environment, work and income of the state, it has to be well figured out, and we don't have the impression that this fee that was arrived at and that it is now being debated about who is responsible for it contributes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1150	Because of the exceptional situation in the last few months, we have all had to change parts of our policies, and Norway has to re-dimension itself in many areas because of the large influx of people. When it comes to border control, the majority of Stortinget has for a long time joined the free movement of people across borders within the framework of the Schengen Agreement – including the Labour Party. In the Central Party, however, we see border control as an important tool for controlling who comes and lives in the country. It also makes it easier to trap and stop people who don't have a basis for coming, for example. wanted criminals. Border control is often produced as an evil, but there is no need for new technology and alternative cooperation. A revitalised Nordic passport union can in the long term be a good solution. Schengen external border controls have collapsed, leaving the seats for the free movement of persons within Schengen. Will the Labour Party reconsider its position on border control? And what does parliamentary leader Gahr Støre think about starting work on revitalising the Nordic passport union?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1159	What was great about the Nordic passport union from the 1950s was that we could travel across the North without passports. So the fact that you could travel around without having the boundary as an obstacle was a very good thing. The working party is very much for border control, but it should be where it is effective, and where it allows us to travel when we are sure of who is travelling. It requires external border control in Europe, namely the Schengen Agreement. It has encountered major problems with the influx of asylum that has occurred. There are also ongoing discussions this week on how to strengthen and further develop the regulatory framework. One main problem is that external border controls, especially in Greece and Italy, have collapsed in many ways. It needs to be strengthened. I don't think a Nordic closed outer limit is the answer to that challenge. The answer to the challenge is that Norway contributes to European cooperation and good external border control, and that we can continue to travel in Europe without too many obstacles. But if the control of the external borders is not good enough, of course, each country has to take responsibility, as we do in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1166	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1169	I wondered if it was a coincidence that the voting system went black when the Labour Party leader went to the pulpit, but after hearing the post and all the black paint that was there, I realized that there was no chance. Now it's up and going again, it's good. The state budget we are about to adopt today has been presented at a time that is very challenging for Norway. For many years we surfed high on a high oil price, which has contributed to growth in both the private and public sectors. Now we're in a situation where the oil price is halved, we're experiencing the impact of a two-part economy with full gravity: notices of lay-offs, closures and increasing unemployment. In such a situation, it is essential that the state budget for 2016 is a budget for work, activity and migration. Fortunately, it contributes to today's four bourgeois parties. A challenging situation rarely comes alone. We see every day news that the world around us is not as peaceful as our part of the world. This creates fear and hopelessness. It makes people want to move in order to get a better future than they might get in a warring homeland. We have experienced this with full weight this autumn, with the huge influx of people applying for asylum in Norway. The influx of asylum seekers this autumn has turned all records. If the number that came in a few weeks in October and November had been normal, we would receive well over 100 000 asylum seekers this year. The normal, on the other hand, and the number for which we have disposed of our apparatus, has been about 10,000 a year. When the influx in some months is more than tidal, it creates a pressure on the entire Norwegian society, which makes it more difficult for us to do the things we depend on to be done: register those who come, ensure that those who do not have the right to stay, send back, ensure that those who have the right to protection are accommodated and get it well, and not least do the receiver, the integration system and the municipalities are able to do the job. Those who work in UDI, PU and other areas that have managed this huge influx this fall have not had an easy task. It's important, and they need to know that we're grateful for the job they're doing. It has been crucial to tighten up asylum policy in this autumn. People who come to Norway and are entitled to protection deserve a sober but dignified offer. We would have been unable to deliver if we did not at the same time ensure that the inflow was reduced. When we first experience that the border with Russia is a place where the migration flow is directed, it tells us that we are in a new era. It tells us that signals from Norwegian politicians send are effective. When Norwegian political parties remove the term ‘strict’ from their immigration policy, it is perceived that it is easy to enter, even for those who do not have a right to do so. Since the parties in our captivating to be most offensive on how many more refugees we were going to enter Norway, it also gives a signal that there are people here on the run should seek residence, even though it may be more natural to travel to a country that is closer to their own country. We know that many of those who have come over the Great Forest do not have the right to protection in Norway, simply because they already have protection in another safe country. We know that our own system has not been disposed of for the large number that has come this autumn. It was therefore important that the Stortinget adopted concrete restrictions on asylum policy earlier in November. And it's equally important with the tightening up we're going to adopt here today. When 161 out of 169 representatives in this Chamber stand behind a new and more stringent asylum policy, there is also a strong signal for those who want to come here and who do not have the right to protection. Intensification works. The signals are working. We don't know how fast or how much. Of course, as asylum figures were substantially reduced in the last few years, this is due to a number of factors. In particular, the recently introduced Swedish border control system. But when we have experienced in the last few days that no one has come to Norway over Storskog, it has nothing to do with Swedish politics. To the extent that it has to do with politics, and we have to expect it to have it too, Norwegian policies – Norwegian restrictions that have been absolutely necessary to get control of a serious and challenging situation. I am pleased that the six largest parties here on the Stortinget are united on the changes in asylum policy. It is a clear and clear expression that the efforts of Prime Minister Erna Solberg asked for in October, now have been started and partly completed. Then the same parties continue to work on how we can make sure that reception and integration are done in the best possible way. In a world of rapid change, it is good to note that the Norwegian political environment also has the ability to move around quickly and gather around broad solutions to face a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1205	It came in and out a little bit of a bard on it. I thought I'd take a line on the state budget. I'm not going to do that, I'm actually going to take a line that's more about the representative of Helleland, that's the issue of asylum negotiations and asylum agreements on the Stortinget. The centre party is also of the opinion that it has been very important, the work done in the Stortingen to reach a common agreement on restrictive decisions and measures to regulate immigration. Now we are also facing a situation where we need to discuss integration measures, and not least the great task facing Norwegian municipalities in following it in the future. The centre party is very concerned that it is the municipalities that do the practical job. It is those who have practical responsibility, and it is very important that the state and society provide full coverage of the costs of the municipalities in that context. Is the Right Will to Be in It?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1214	Thanks to Marit Arnstad for the line. It is to anticipate a little bit of the negotiations that have started so far, the questions she is asking. What I want to say is that when we talk about full coverage, it's a difficult concept to define when it comes to integration costs. For what we know is that the municipalities that succeed in integrating – and with success, I mean to get people out of work quickly – actually serve on integration in relation to the subsidies they receive from the state. Those who don't get people into work, who then have to go to social assistance, they lose a lot on this. So if we were to create a system that kind of gave 100 pst. coverage, the municipalities wouldn't have any incentives to get people out of work, nor would they make any profit from getting people out of work. So I'm very sceptical about a system that is very rigid when it comes to what the representative asks about. But now we get plenty of occasion in the days and weeks to come, to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1223	I agree with the representative that we have a good and ample opportunity to discuss this in the days to come, and we will contribute to that. A more fundamental question now as to the role of municipalities: it is in the municipalities the receptions are, and it is in the municipalities that people are to be settled. Now the Minister of Finance is in the Chamber, but this question does not go to her. Earlier this year she went out with a call to the municipalities to say no to receiving refugees. It was to prevent the Syria agreement. On repeated occasions she did not want to respond to her request. I would like to ask the representative of the Right, Greece: What is the representative's call for Norwegian municipalities in this situation? At the emergency receptions, people won't be living for long. Is it so that we have to expect that all Norwegian municipalities are involved in this task, or are we going to have a system where there are still only some who are when this exceptionally high number is to be handled?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1232	I just read the statistics UDI has, where it says how many people now live at Norwegian reception. There are now 31 000 people living at Norwegian asylum centres. It goes without saying that everyone lives in a municipality. Everyone has to live in a municipality. My appeal is the same now as it has been all along. I ask the municipalities to assess how many refugees and asylum seekers they can accept, and of course they must accept so many that we are able to settle. No one deserves to have long queues and accumulations of asylum recipients. It's a bad form of integration. It kind of takes a little bit of work and a lot of life out of people who are there, if they stay too long. So here we all have a common task, both the Storting and municipalities: to find schemes that make the municipalities actually want to settle the refugees who are now waiting to settle. That's where we have a job to do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1241	So a question to the budget, since there is a financial debate: The government-appointed Thøgersen Committee has come forward with its assessments and has recommended that oil revenues should be phased in at a slower pace than the government has currently committed. The Right Party government has spent three years using as many oil billions as our government spent eight years, so the pace has been high. How does the Right Recommendation of the Thøgersen Committee read? It is too early to predict what the 2017 budget will require of us, but in view of the use of oil money – are we on the right course now, all the time 4 pst. goal says quite little about where we should be? Or is there reason to set a different course, with a view to both the sustainability of the phase-in and what we leave to future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1251	We were very clear when we were in opposition in the previous period, that we thought the use of oil money was wrong. We have also followed that up both through the government platform and through the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We phase oil money into infrastructure, education, research and growth-promoting tax relief. It's been a perfectly conscious goal on our part to distort the use of oil money so that we invest in the future. I think that's the right way to do it. So, of course, the Right will be holding out too much oil money, but then we've also had a very special year this year with the refugee crisis we've just discussed, with the additional number in which we had to do re-priorities. I believe that the use of oil money we now have in the difficult situation we are in, even with increasing unemployment, is right. But the right is going to be forced to spend too much oil money, we've always been.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1258	I have to admit that it surprises me a little that even after repeated requests we do not get a response to what is the total effort of the government against unemployment. A number of cuts have been made in what the government itself presented as its action package on unemployment. Especially worrying, I think, are the 200 million remaining of employment measures in the municipalities, which were earmarked for the South West, where the problems are greatest. That money is now gone. What we get in response from the members of the government is that the overall impact of the asylum crisis as well as compensation for this. I think that is a nice and difficult answer. It is not that carpenters, engineers and skilled workers in the South-West necessarily get work for that reason. So once again I try, like the Workers' Party and the Center Party that have also tried: what is the total package of measures to combat increasing unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1267	I refer to the answer the Minister of Finance has given countless times while I've been in here in the Chamber, and I think that's a good answer. It is strange that the representative Valen continues on that plate over and over again. Of course, the main effort is to put action in the areas most affected. I believe the government has shown that they are doing this in a sensible way. These are not action sites or measures that will last for many years, but are targeted at concrete projects to increase activity in the economy. It also goes without saying that when the influx of refugees is like it has been, it also creates activity. It creates employment, and I don't think there's anything to hare down on. I thought it was important that we used it as part of also helping to create an increased economic activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1274	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1277	The government has provided its budget, a budget that has the main intention in the fields of work, activity and conversion. The background to this budget is quite obvious. Over several decades, increased activity in the petroleum industry has been important for economic growth in Norway. The petroleum sector will continue to be a major and important contributor to the Norwegian economy, but we can no longer expect it to provide the same growth impulses for the Norwegian economy and employment as it has done in the years that lie behind us. The Government presented in its draft State budget proposals a package of measures. It is true that, through the work done here in the Stortningen in the negotiations, part of the mechanism of the package of measures has been changed and funds have been transferred from one sector to another. But the main lines are stuck in that work – just to have the same focus on this field. Long-term measures for growth and migration are important. We need to get it done so that we can create the new jobs, the future jobs, and then within the industries we're going to live on in the future. It is then important to provide business-internal training funds — as proposed by the government and in place — so that the workforce that businesses already have can be used for new development and for innovation. Therefore, it is important to invest in seed funds to create the new jobs. Therefore, it is important for the TaxFUNN scheme, so that businesses can make their changes, their research, their development to meet the future. At the time of the presentation, the Minister of Finance warned that there would be a challenge related to the large migration and inflow we see, including to Norway. In this connection, the Council of State announced that there would be an additional proposition, which would then come, of the order of 9.5 billion. kr. Therefore, it was important to start a work to reduce the inflow we saw. Therefore, it was important to signal beyond the borders of the country that it is not such that you can only come to Norway without having what you need to do to meet the requirements for protection. For this reason, it was important that the Stortinget and the parliamentary leaders should sit together in order to put in place a number of measures. I want to thank all the parties that were involved in that work so that we could actually give those signals. In the past, the Progress Party felt relatively alone in this Chamber about setting up a more stringent asylum and immigration policy. Now we've got a majority for a number of the proposals we've been dealing with on our own. It's important to get it right in place, in a time when we now see a lot of countries struggling. Norway is also doing so, and it is important to have it implemented. We see that there may be some of the measures that work, but I also want to say, like the representative Trond Helleland, that it's actually not that the changes in Storskog come as a result of what's happening in Sweden. One should, among other things: Take a small course in geography before you can claim it – or to see that it is actually not. It is clear that tightening in many fields can work, but we must not lean back and believe that now this challenge is solved, because this can quickly flare up again. We can quickly see that the influx to Norway can increase. That's why it's important that we have a fixed course in this field, that we make sure that we're up to the decisions we're making today, and not asking questions about what you've already been able to put in place. Now you have to start -- you're in the process of discussing integration. The focus must then be on the integration of those who are allowed to stay, but, as I said earlier, we must also ensure that those who are not allowed to stay quickly leave the country, so that we do not misunderstand and believe that Norway is just coming. I must be allowed to say one more thing. The cloaking contest that could be seen from individual parties in our day, linked to whether you would receive 10,000 or 8,000 or how many there were, was in itself helping to direct some people to Norway. You have to take it inwards. That showed the statistics. I look forward to the further work, and that we can now succeed better in the work we have started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1301	The representative Nesvik put great emphasis on the refugee situation, and that's why. It's a challenging situation. It is the reality here that the initiative of the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and the efforts of the parliamentary leader Gahr Støre were very important if we were to find an overall solution to tighten up those who are not to be allowed to stay in Norway. But we hear too little from the Progress Party about what to do for the many real asylum seekers who come here and who need to be integrated. My question therefore concerns this. We experience that the Progress Party there has two points of view. On the one hand, state councillor Horne says that it is important that the municipalities set up. So the party leader and finance minister Siv Jensen said that the municipalities should refuse to accept. Is the parliamentary leader, who has a responsibility to send signals into Norwegian society, in agreement that Norwegian municipalities should set up, as the Minister for Integration Horne says?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1306	The Progress Party has the position that in these matters, each municipality must make its own assessments of what you can do, what you want to do, and how you can do it. For the Progress Party, it is entirely inappropriate to enter into forced residence in the municipalities if the municipalities do not have the opportunity, opportunity or resources to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1311	When budgetary settlements are made in the Storting, some strange things always arise. The most peculiar feature of this year's budgetary settlement must be the charge on air passengers to which the Progress Party is now contributing. It is a charge that is described in the national budget as a no-climate-effect charge; it is a charge that is organised in the worst-case way if it is to have an environmental impact. If it had even been a charge at airports, where a real collective alternative, if it had been a fee based on how much fuel a user would have been, now it's just as big whether you're flying from Ålesund to Oslo or from Oslo to Bangkok, if it had at least been a fee that could change over to biofuels over time – but it's not like that. Can the Progress Party just as well confirm that this is a fiscal charge to meet a budgetary need that the cooperation parties had and that one in a late night hour had to resolve?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1316	On 8 October, the government parties presented their draft government budget – that was the government budget. It was without such a charge. This is the case, and the representative of the Central Party should also be well aware that in order to create a majority – whether you are in a majority government and you have to create a majority in it, or you are in a minority government and you have to create a majority in the Biggest – you have to find solutions. There's the whole thing that counts, and here's the whole thing to get the sense of the proposals that, among other things. The Progress Party itself has been responsible for the shortening problem of married and cohabiting and increased investment in transport, both on the road and on the road – and we have a number of other measures. That's the sum of the budget that's most important here, and this has actually been good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1321	It seems that the Progress Party is based much of its economic policy on superstition, for example, it is believed. that if you give wealth and inheritance tax relief to the most prosperous, there must be more jobs in some miracle, despite economists saying that this is not the case. At the other end of the scale, some miracles and wonders are soon needed, as the Progress Party believes that some of the most disadvantaged families of children, i.e. families where one of the carers – or where it is usually just a caretaker – is unfinished, and who have some of the lowest performances, so that they can have a need-tested child supplement that exists today, will lose it. That means up to $30,000 a year. Is it true that the Progress Party believes that they are going to be miraculously healthy, or does the Progress Party believe that these parents are not disabled, but are just brainwashed sick and can be in work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1331	I just have to reiterate that if someone needs a reality orientation related to economic policy, I think SV and the representative Karin Andersen should report on a course. It is precisely those persons who have the lowest income that will be most affected by the SV budget. When, among others: SV increases the electricity charge by 1.75 cents without compensating for it on the tax, it is precisely those affected. When SV increases the CO2 charge by 50 pst. and shall take 3 billion. kr on it, it's just the ones you hit. When you increase the one-off fee by 2.7 billion. kr, it's the ones you hit. When you increase the road tax on diesel by 2.8 billion. NOK, 1 kr per litre, and you raise 50 cents for petrol, that's exactly what these people have hit, because they're being hit by these charges. So I have a good conscience for what the government stands for. It's a whole in the budget. I think the SV's budget is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1339	It was a rather interesting lecture by the representative Karin Andersen on economic policy, for in the past the Progress Party has claimed that fees are very socially unfair. But it is actually now that the Progress Party is 200 million. kr higher on charging, e.g. by increasing the electricity charge, other than the alternative budget of the Workers' Party. In addition, the Progress Party has also become a tax party for some. The Progress Party suggests – and they did from the government – that those who, perhaps because they are to be part of the mobility of the labour market, commute to get to work, they have to pay more in taxes. They're going to lose net to the tax changes, there's little they get in general tax reliefs. So the last proposal was to break the agreement we have with the social partners on the termination benefit scheme and a late night to find that they should also be taxed. Then I wonder: Why should ordinary workers and people who lose their jobs be taxed more when you have so much money to give in taxes to those who have a lot of money already?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1346	It would have been desirable if the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, had tried to see the whole of the tax package as a whole. That's what it's all about. You have to look at it together. In the case of the electricity charge, on which the representative was involved, it is fully compensated by the step tax. I don't think you can do that in the Labour Party budget. When you talk about the commuters, I just have to say that when the Labour Party proposes in its budget proposal to increase the user charge on automotive diesel by 25 cents, who is the target? Well, just those people who commute, and who drive a lot of cars. In addition, it is proposed that the CO2 tax on mineral products be further increased, by 3 pst. Yes, the people whom the representative Dag Terje Andersen claims to be affected are others, but not one. What is important is the overall tax regime. In the period in which this government has its seat, tax cuts of 18 billion have been put in place. kr. If you went into the Labour Party setup, there would be significant increases in that field, with billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1358	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1361	I want to start by giving a thank you to the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the agreement we have reached, in the demanding situation that the country is now in. We've got a budget to fight unemployment. We also see that we need an increase in capacity, because there are more refugees coming to our country. The clear commitment of the Christian People's Party to this budget has been to correct some of the assistance to those who need the most – poor and conflict-affected people in developing countries. We've made that clear, and I'm glad. The budget agreement led to the greatest increase in the aid budget in time. 2.5 B.C.E. kr was added. The re-prioritisation strengthened assistance for the poorest. The budget for development measures in civil society has been fully reversed. The same thing happened far along the way for transitional assistance as well as for agricultural research. The United Nations Children’s Fund, UNICEF, was also cut in Appendix 1 more than compensated. And supported by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme was seen to be higher than the government's proposal before the round. Rarely have we seen such a great deal of evidence that the Christian People's Party and the Left used their influence to help save Norwegian aid. It shows the function that the Christian People's Party and the Left can have in a good and democratic process. Without our influence, development policy would have been much weaker. Our impact makes a difference in Norwegian policy in several areas. This year, it has been made clear to everyone how important this is in relation to Norway's international solidarity. But there are many good Christian People's Party matters in this budget. I just want to name three whole cards. One was the good suggestion from the government to increase the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. I thought it was very loud and correct of the Right and the Advance Party to join in increasing also for the Least Lone Pensioners. That's the group that has the least. The healing was, collectively, very good. We also got 320 million. kr to more teachers at 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th stages. This gives students the best possible start of school. With the challenges we're also looking forward to, this is precisely what is very important with an early effort. It gets us into this budget. I also want to learn about the district bet. 670 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European It goes to broadband construction, it goes to regional development funds, it goes to loss compensation for the county councils that have it in place, it goes to county highways, and it goes even to timber brands. It shows something of the detailed and holistic nature of the district effort that has come into place. The war in Syria and the IS herrings in the region have driven many millions of people away. UNHCR reports that a total of 15 million people fled in 2014. Unfortunately, the number has increased in 2015. In the last few months, we have seen the challenges of this in Norway, which countries south of Europe have already marked for several years. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to take responsibility in the situation in which we stand. This autumn we have seen an increasing number of people without need for protection search asylum in Norway. That is why the Christian People's Party has supported a broad agreement between the majority of the parties on the Stortinget. This ensures that we can send out those who do not need protection more quickly and thus get more resources to take care of those who need protection. The overall effectiveness and simplification of legislation and practices for the treatment of asylum applications should not weaken the legal security of asylum seekers. It was also presented as important in this agreement. Now we are talking about a force for integration and enabling municipalities to accept refugees in a worthy way. This must of course be seen in conjunction with the whole-hearted agreement we have on the tightening up. It is a premise that good measures are now being taken for municipalities and for integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1387	I notice that the Christian People's Party in the financial position is pleased that they have succeeded in the budget agreement with the government in raising the grant to the county councils for regional development by 54 million. kr. Yes, all the monks are leaving, but the fact is that this budget line has been severely cut in the time that the Christian People's Party has been co-responsible for the state budget, more specifically with 423 million. kr in the government's proposal. Now the cut is reduced to 380 million. kr. In the budget, the government indicates that the regional development grant will contribute to the achievement of national objectives, adapted to regional challenges and assumptions. We know that the money is spent on industrial development projects in cooperation with Innovation Norway, Siva and the municipalities. The means are the main means of achieving these measures, and the county authorities say that they are now unable to solve this satisfactorily. Does the representative Hareide think that it is good district policy to cut so strongly in the county council's work on regional development, and what does the representative think will have an impact on the county council as a regional development actor?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1396	I have a good news for Mr. Greni. It's true that we're increasing regional development funds by 54 million. kr, but there's only one of two posts we're increasing them on. That is, the total increase is 120 million. kr. It is precisely because we see that this is important in order to ensure good development in the regions. At the same time, we also know that what is happening in the field of transport is very important, precisely for District Norway. There is a historical commitment to road and highways and to maintenance. The combination of that we get to 120 million. on regional development funds and a historical commitment to transport, contribute to ensuring good health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1401	As a member of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I am constantly receiving feedback from the county councils that this sharp cut now means that they are unable to perform their role as regional development operator satisfactorily because the main instrument is gone. At the same time, the compensation they receive as a strengthening of means of transport is significantly less than that lost in regional development funds. For information, the Centre Party has now added 500 million. kr in our budget to strengthen this. Just in the time we are in now, with increased unemployment, where we all really agree that new jobs are the most important field of activity: does the representative Hareide think that county municipalities are able to do this properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1408	It was precisely because we wanted to strengthen the county councils' ability to do the job that we chose to prioritize this with 120 million. kr in the unity we got. Of course, we would have wanted a much greater strengthening of this, and in our alternative budget we would have. But that's what we got into the budget unit we got in place. I'm glad. This must also be seen against what kind of reinforcement we give to transportation. We get a comprehensive district development that I think is very good when we get both broadband development and a loss compensation that comes in addition to the county municipalities that come out very demanding – I especially want to mention Nordland and Sogn and the Fjords that come out of the loss compensation very well. We're going to bet on scaffolding. The total district effort of the Christian People's Party is 670 million. kr in the budget unit we obtained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1415	Let me say right away that there's a lot of what we think is good in this budget, which has the Christian People's Party's mark on it. We are happy, for example. That there will be more teachers in school. It's a very important breakthrough for the Christian People's Party. And we see that the Christian People's Party has fought for the aid. Nevertheless, the sum of this budget harvest is a real cut in aid, and not least a rather dramatic cut in climate finance in southern countries, precisely the fall when world leaders are going to try to break through the fight against climate change. That is why I want to return to the invitation that Snorre Serigstad Valen made earlier in this debate. It must be a cross of thought for the head of the Christian People's Party that there is probably a real majority in this Chamber for a stronger international effort than is in the budget that Mr Hareide himself is voting for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1423	As also the representative Syversen said earlier in this room: We admit it – there is a cut in the aid, but we can still say we are pleased that we have managed to correct it by 2.5 billion. kr. The second most important priority of the Christian People's Party's side in the budget negotiations we have been on is to be involved in increasing aid. We think we've come a long way, we should like to come further, but we still say we're happy with it. There is now a refugee situation that not only characterizes Norway. We can also go to Sweden, where it is not a blue-blue government, but where it is a red-green government, and they take a much larger part of their aid budget and use it in Sweden. It also has to be part of the whole thing that we're looking at. But yes, that's demanding. The world needs more help - no less. Therefore, the difference that the Christian People's Party has made has been important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1432	The representative Hareide has good points, and there is no Sunday school to negotiate with the Workers' Party either, but there is a value at the bottom that makes the direction of politics clearer, clearer and better. One of the things that the Christian People's Party would have escaped is the very unsocial cuts that the Right Party government has taken initiative in, and that they are now carrying out with the blessing of the Christian People's Party and the Left, among others. cut in the child allowance for disabled dependants. The Christian People's Party and the Left got a lot of brilliance last year for saving this child's supplement, but now we know the realities. When asked about the government, we were told that more than 300 families were affected from 1 January. They get an average annual income cut of NOK 29000. More than 200 families lose more than NOK 30 000 per year. I wonder what the representative Hareide has to say to these families who from 1 January are being punished, because they are no longer able to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1439	This Christian People's Party answered last year, too, when we negotiated the budget, because that was when this matter was up. We were clear that we were saving 90 pst. by the child supplement. That's 10 pst. again, and that's these 10 pst. This is the city of Valen talking about. But it's also a challenge if it's going to be that you can go on a disability pension and get a child supplement and then get far more income than those in regular work. One has to find a balance, and I thought we might not find a perfect balance, but a pretty good balance on it last year, which allows us to stand upright on it. I would also like to say about this budget that the current tax bill is less than 200 million. kr. This debate has also not been influenced by the usual red-green slogans, because there is no flow of tax money that we can use in this budget. They are used for well-being and good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1451	There has been an extraordinary harvest in all the situations we've been in, both nationally and internationally. It has been demanding in terms of asylum influx to Norway and how to deal with that situation. All those events have been challenging internationally. I'll come back to that a little bit. But there has also been a special budgetary procedure in the autumn. First, the government presented its option in two phases, the draft budget and the supplementary proposal, and I have to say that both documents were marked by a budget adapted to a set of district policy and balancing measures being the balancing item. It has proved to be the rule, without exception, for the Right Party and the Advance Party in the years in which they have been in government. By way of derogation, districts become the balancing item, whether in the case of tax relief or conversion. After a long debate, the four cooperation parties arrived at a budgetary settlement largely marked by internal contradictions and also a little panic, I think it must have been, in order to meet budgetary needs. The weird thing about this is really the inconsistency that emerges so clearly between the parties. One year subsidises a trip abroad by increasing the tax-free quota and thus encourages more people to take flights, while the next year introduces an airstrip fee to reduce the number of flights, supposedly as a climate action. One month you will have a package of measures to meet unemployment. In the next month, this package of measures was severely cut as unemployment increased. It is the story of a poor package of measures that became even worse. One year, five government councils present 10 billion. kr in new capital to Statkraft to contribute to the long-term sustainability of ownership policies and long-term investments in renewable energy. The next year, one strips away 5 billion. DKr of the 10 billion. the crowns of long-term capital. It's some kind of inconsistency that's becoming increasingly obvious. The centre party has presented our own budget. It's a budget line for putting the whole country into use. For us, it has been important to focus on decentralisation and vitality across the country. Compared to the government, we're using 10 billion. more on a green and active industrial policy and on social and geographical cohesion. We prioritise money for a state-owned green investment company to promote green business development and technology, and we propose to introduce the tax credit for an additional measure promised by the cooperationparties, but not implemented. We put up a powerful effort on municipalities, hospitals and infrastructure. These are long-term and important needs of Norwegian society. Municipalities, whether large or small, need to be able to provide good welfare, and ensuring hospitals throughout the country the conditions under which they can take care of good health care are very important. Overall, we also increased the aid budget far beyond what the government proposed. It is also necessary in a situation where we have experienced one of the greatest humanitarian crises since the Second World War, while we know that there is also a great need for long-term assistance. At the same time as examining the budget, we have also dealt with the conciliation that six of the parties to the Stortinget have concluded. The Central Party has asked throughout the harvest that we have to have a settlement between the parties on the Great Britain on immigration and integration. The special situation we have seen in the autumn, where very many asylum seekers have come to Norway, requires that we agree on some main priorities that may be fixed over time, because this situation does not go beyond the first. This is a situation that political Norway needs to deal with over time. One part of the agreement is on the table today, and the Central Party is pleased that we have agreed on important measures to regulate immigration. We are pleased because, in today's situation, we need to make a clearer distinction between asylum seekers who are entitled to protection and those who do not. The entire legitimacy of the asylum institution rests on the fact that we are clear about it. Getting us the tools we need to return asylum seekers with clearly unfounded applications is therefore important. But now we are also in the process of talking about the second part of the deal, which is about integration and the resources of municipalities. That part is at least as important. The municipalities and the volunteers who do the practical work in this context have to get support from the big society. We are facing some demanding years in terms of integration and resources in that context, and they must be able to do the practical work for us. The centre party should actively and positively enter into such a settlement negotiation, and it is important for us that we also get to that part of the settlement before the year is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1484	I admit that there's a new exercise for me to put a line to a former red-green comrade, if I'm allowed to use that expression. It's common in my movement. I fully agree that the big community must stand up in the case of refugees, and there is a very decisive round of negotiations now. We can't do integration and settlement on savings flares out in the municipalities. But the problem now is that municipalities after municipalities are also running drastic cuts in basic services, and in the middle of this, they are going to meet those challenges. That's why the Workers' Party has invested about a billion more on the refugee section of the municipalities. My question is: what are your signals in the Central Party – because you have many rapporteurs, just like us – from Kommune-Norway? Hopefully you will end up with a pressure on the government parties that what is now there and is being adopted today is too weak.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1491	I can join the last one. The Centre Party has also proposed a community structure that is significantly stronger than that of the cooperation parties. It is absolutely necessary to carry out the ordinary welfare tasks of the municipalities. But then the challenges of asylum and refugee reception come in addition. Then there are especially three things that I think it is important to point out. One is the role of the host municipalities. Over the year, the host municipality grant has been underfunded and those who are currently host municipalities for reception need to step up the resources. Then we have the integration grant. I have to say that we can talk widely about some losers and some serve on the integration grant, but the central party's principle position is that the integration grant should cover the state 100 pst. Then we'll discuss how each municipality behaves, and how many they get into work. But the state should cover it 100 pst. In addition, there are, in particular, challenges related to, inter alia: the protection of children and the follow-up of lone minor asylum seekers who will also require considerable resources in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1502	The representative Arnstad must have very short memory. I want to remind you of a look-up on the E24 on June 9th this summer. It said: ‘Center Party: – Pay back the billions, State Force!’ So it was a response to the uncertainty that the company itself has created around its investment plans. It was also quite interesting to read in the settings around the center part. You write: ‘The Central Party shall be responsible for a policy targeting individual industries’. It is also written that this applies to industries such as maritime, petroleum, marine, tourism, agriculture, the food industry and the space industry. It's kind of revealing when you actually write these industries, because that means you have to down-prioritize some industries. Does this mean that industries such as ICT, trade, finance, health, automation, pharmacy to mention someone, are not to be put on, and does this mean that the Center Party believes that policymakers have a special insight into picking future winning industries in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1519	It's interesting, the state power thing. I said that in June of this year because Statekraft said they wouldn't invest in Fozen Wind. Then, beyond the fall, State Power has signaled that they are interested. There has also been a foreign interest in the development of fossil fuels. We are close to an investment decision for Fosen, the largest wind power project in Norway. What does the government do? Well, at a headless moment some night in the budget negotiations they choose to decide to take away 5 billion. kr of the capital injection granted to Statkraft. It is a headless decision because it can actually affect the investment decision that Statekraft is facing. It would be very devastating if it were the rather destructive ownership policies of the government parties and rather random ownership policies that overturned Norway's largest wind power project. It would be sad and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1524	Had it been for the Central Party's charging policy, the forest bio plant would not have been built, so we can start there. But that's really not what I was going to talk about. One of the major short-term challenges facing Norway is increasing unemployment, particularly in many coastal areas where oil-related business needs to be replaced by new jobs and businesses. The left's response to the challenges is a 10-billion-dollar action package. kr, with a targeted focus on green growth, innovation, innovation and new jobs, including a targeted 3 billion mark-up. kr. to stimulate. The answers of the Centre are primarily a series of additions for farmers and agriculture, followed by a net tax and tax tightening of 15 billion. particularly targeted at other businesses and those investing in Norwegian enterprises and jobs. I heard the representative Arnstad talk about inconsistency, but this isn't entirely in touch. What economic theory is the Center Party leaning on when they obviously believe that a
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1534	It is possible that the left in its original budget had a package of measures on unemployment and labour challenges, but one of them has been involved in the budgetary agreement, since it is significantly reducing the proposed package of measures. It is simply a matter of many of the measures that should now be taken, including: South and Western countries to reduce unemployment and relocate their business. After all, they have significantly reduced that package of measures. No one today would say just how much, but the central part means, based on the calculations we've done, that they've reduced it by about half, from 4 billion. NOK 2 billion. kr. So I might think that the left should not be as tall and dark as they are later to be. Yes, each party has its priorities in terms of unemployment. The focus of the centre is on reducing costs for business, not on high tax relief, but on reducing concrete costs, whether in the case of heavy transport tolls, depreciation rates, increased deductions, reduced employers’ fees or refusal to tax, for example. agricultural generational shifts. We have a number of such measures that will be important also in terms of work and unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1541	I am pleased with the signals given by the parliamentary leader Arnstad about the situation and integration of the municipalities. I think that's right. But I want to challenge in another area. We have clearly heard what the Senterpartiet says about the air passenger charge, and I will not proceed with it. But we are now in front of the desire for a broad tax settlement, and we know that we are forced to reduce the tax on companies to create jobs. In line with the climate challenge we see, there will be a need for a tax shift. My challenge is: in what area does the Centre see that we can get a tax shift that makes it more profitable and more environmentally friendly, but also that it will cost more if one acts in a way that helps to damage the environment and the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1548	I think that debate on the tax change becomes very important. I also believe that there is such an important debate that it must be well-thought-out, and it must be carried out in such a way as to ensure that the measures have a climate effect, that they actually work, and that the distributional effects do not give too much impact. That's exactly why we're responding to that passenger charge, because it's arranged in the worst way if you think about environmental and climate impact. If you'd even suggested a fuel charge, because it's the fuel in the planes that's the problem. If one had even differentiated the fee so that it was higher for the longest routes and lower for the shortest ones – well, that was probably the other left’s suggestion, wasn’t it? As I understood it, a lower charge could have been imposed on shorter air travel and a higher charge for longer air travel. Then one could have discussed the climate effect, but what the parties have done here is just sewing together a budget proposal a late night – Finn and cover a budget need – that's all it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1553	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1556	I do not know what it is like to sit and negotiate between the parties in the government, but it is clear that those who sat in the previous government negotiated very much at night. We never did; we only negotiated in the daytime. And the proposals that are on the table today are well thought out, and many of them are also drawn from the alternative budget of the Left. There were not so many who were upset about any of those changes then, but they obviously did not expect them to actually get through to a budget that was to be adopted. We face three major challenges as a nation and in the world. One is the employment challenge for a country that has become so dependent on oil over many decades that a small drop in the oil price makes it difficult for us to get jobs for our citizens. That conversion would have started a long time ago. The new jobs should have been created a long time ago. Now we're finally getting it replaced, and it's going to be a lot more painful because you didn't do that job a long time ago. Oil dependence, oil fanaticism, which existed in previous governments, has led to that job conversion being much tougher than it really had to be, but we have to fix it now. The second major challenge is the climate challenge, and Norway must also contribute. We have to contribute with measures that work, we have to contribute with measures that may be unpopular, we have to contribute with political leadership that makes us actually bring this forward. And I have to say that I'm a little surprised about today, with a Workers' Party that hooves, acting on social media with fun activities related to environmental taxes. Environmental taxes are one of the most important, most effective measures to achieve the transition we need. It requires courageous politicians, and it requires politicians in it, and I will give credit to all those who are able to stand in it when we are going to vote on it today, because we have to do that in fact – we have to have environmental taxes if we are to be able to bring about changes in people's actions. Snorre Serigstad Valen would like to invite us to change sides, but we see how his partners are hovering over the same environmental taxes that are so crucial to achieving goals. It's hooted, it's ridiculed and it's used all possible tools to rake down on them, but some people actually have to stand in it and fight for them, and we've got a bigger green tax change every year than the red-greens ever have. And we see a huge increase in the taxpayer of the red-greens, while we know that the Norwegian business world needs now, in fact, is the transition and the room for action for new investments. It's actually not tax increases, it's tax cuts. We need a huge commitment to research, knowledge, teachers and kindergartens – all that constitutes the knowledge infrastructure of society. This has been achieved through the budgetary agreement – everything from making the grant to apprentices higher, making sure that the green transition is achieved, making it grow in the industries that we will live on in the future, and making it a transition to business. And then we have to tackle the refugee challenge. Now, the numbers from the SSB that probably show that it can help Norway through a dip of economics, that we can actually also grow through the immigration we've now seen. But we have to make sure that we get a good integration, which makes everyone get a good start, because those who come here and are going to be here succeed, too. It's when we get good integration – get people to work quickly, get people quickly integrated into society – that we manage to succeed as a society, and that's the challenge we're facing right now. Then we have to have the measures to get people into society quickly, to be able to contribute quickly and to get an understanding of what is the Norwegian social contract. We are now at a time when quite courageous action is required. It requires that everyone actually cooperate and extend. I would lie from the pulpit if I said this is easy to get to. This was a budget that was really difficult to get into – everyone had to take and everyone had to give in order for us to get into the goal. But there are also some courageous moves that I believe politicians should have the courage to stand in, and it is actually now required that someone take some courageous action, especially in climate and environmental policy, where it is not just about using carrots, but also about using whips to bring about those changes. And the way you ridicule charging policies from this pulpit today, I mean witnesses to politicians who are not brave, and who dare not take unpopular action to meet the greatest challenge our planet is facing now, namely climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1573	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1576	Then we have learned that it is at daytime that one has negotiated the budget – it is okay to clarify it – and that they were courageous. Yes, they were very brave. They have negotiated a budget that now makes renewable energy like electricity more expensive and gasoline and diesel cheaper. It's very brave at a time when one is calling for sensible conversions in a more climate-friendly direction. So the agreement ended with an increase in the electricity tax of 1,85 kroner in total, including VAT of 20 cents. Increased electricity tax is an increase in the taxation of climate-friendly energy use. Half of the energy we use in Norway comes from fossil energy sources. We need to convert. How can more expensive electricity and cheaper petrol and diesel contribute to people choosing to convert from fossil energy to renewable energy? And how can this be referred to within the green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1583	This shows that the working party has not understood anything about what the green shift is about. The green shift is about, among other things, electricity shall be more profitable to produce. The reason why we do not produce more in Norway today is that it is not profitable to produce. The reason why we don't get energy saving measures is that the electricity price has been too low. We don't get to the conversions we need. We do not get to the conversions in all from Norwegian homes to parts of Norwegian business precisely because it is not profitable to do so. We'll make it profitable to be green. We want to make it profitable with energy saving measures. We want to make it profitable in every single home by deducting people from doing the grips. In order for it to be profitable, we actually have to do something about the electricity prices. It's about a very naive approach if you think that just the flow is cheap enough, these changes will probably happen. No, you actually have to stimulate changes through what we do with an increment deduction, what we do with the measures in each home, but also by making the flow a little bit more expensive, so that we can stimulate the conversions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1590	That's the most amazing answer I've ever heard. Increasing the electricity charge does not make it more attractive to invest in renewable energy – on the contrary, it makes it more complicated to invest in renewable energy and makes it more difficult to use renewable energy. That's exactly what the electricity charge is supporting. This is also reflected in the additional proposals in the Committee's position and recommendation today. Then, in the areas where you want to convert to renewable energy, you have to actually suggest that the government consider a reduced electricity charge. So I ask again, how can the representative explain that more expensive electricity, i.e. renewable energy, should be supported in this proposal to make petrol and diesel cheaper? How does the green shift happen? At least it has nothing to do with stimulating increased renewable energy construction in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1595	When the Workers' Party ran, almost all the companies that were using renewable energy went bankrupt – whether it was bioenergy, whether it was solar, whether it was biogas. There was no investment in this area, there was no investment in this area. One saw that the company after the company that tried to think differently went bankrupt. Now we see that the largest biogas plant in Northern Europe is built on Forest. We see that bioenergy on all other fronts is growing. We see that everything other than diesel and petrol is getting cheaper. We see a switchover of large parts of the Norwegian transport sector, because everything other than petrol and diesel is cheaper. So the changes happen. When the Workers' Party was running, these companies went bankrupt, they were unable to create new jobs. And one also sees that one does not get the transformation of business that we need to create the green business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1600	It's great to listen to the Left. Now everything goes to heaven, and two years ago everything went wrong. It's an incredible storywriting left-hand drive, and also that the budget deal has been made in the daytime. We got the impression, we who were sitting and waiting, that it was a two-timer day, because there was no progress at all, and then it was panicking the last day when one came up with some little thoughtful solutions. The left is proud of the fare. I can't believe you can't be proud of it. It makes no sense to pay 80 kroner for a return trip to New York, but 160 kroner for a return trip to Bodø–Svolvær. What's the point? One year, large tax subsidies are granted using tax-free schemes, and the next year, tax incentives are to be applied to domestic air travel. There's nothing to be proud of. It's a little bit thoughtful, and it's not accurate. There's no need to subsidize people who travel to New York, but punish people who have a useful trip to North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1608	This comes from a party that provides its own budget, where they're not just going to raise taxes by 15 billion. kr, but they also increase the subsidisation of heavy transport by 500 million. kr. This means that the centre party has not understood a piece of what the green shift is about, they have not understood anything about how to use taxes. For us, it's important to have tax relief if you actually increase taxes, and then people get to decide whether they want to spend the money on pollution, or whether they might spend it on other things in their lives. A few minutes ago, the Central Party parliamentary leader stood here talking about the short flights. That's when you can really choose trains. If you're going between Trondheim and Oslo, you can actually choose trains. And it's the short flights that are used most often. We're making the tickets cheaper on these routes. We charge a fee to change, and the Senter Party has to decide: if this fee works, people will fly less, and then you will achieve what you want for the environment. On the one hand, however, it is said that it does not work and on the other hand that it will lead to disaster for business. Both of these things can't be true.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1617	The representative Skei Grande is very offensive, but I want to ask her to think about the presentation of this budget as a proper breakthrough for the green shift in Norway actually serves the environmental issue. I don't think it does. The reality is that in the Norwegian Grand Prix there is a majority of gray parties, and the green parties have to fight everything they can to get through, and I have respect for the job left doing. But the presentation that we have now taken a quantum leap, and so we have a completely different situation than we had under the red-green government, is completely wrong with all respect. The left fights, as we did, and gets some breakthroughs, but the sum of this budget is in the wrong direction. I wish Skei Grande could be as honest as Hareide about it. That is why I would like to ask: does the representative really believe that this budget is an important contribution to the green shift? Then I would like to stress that there is not a no on that question that will weaken the environmental credibility of the Left, but a yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1622	Let me use the air fare as a symbol of how important the green tax change actually is. It's a tough decision to make, and I know that in the room we were sitting there was tough for someone to admit. That's how the environmental parties have to fight, and we have to decide what's most important to get through. For us, the green shift has been the most important thing to get through, and we get to press it in the right direction. Then it's a piece from the Left's option, which we're voting for primarily today, until what we're finally getting adopted. But I see that we're going in the right direction all the way, and we're going to get pussy all the way. It would have been easier, on the environmental side at least, if I and the representative Lysbakken were to agree with just the two of us. But that's how we both relate to parties that don't necessarily have at the top of the wish list what we have at the top of the wish list. And I want to say thank you to the Advancement Party for agreeing to this, and I want to say that I don't think the Workers' Party campaign against it is particularly sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1631	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1634	The SV's draft budget is a budget for new solidarity – for solidarity with one another, at a time when unemployment and differences are growing in Norwegian society, for solidarity with others, at a time when our country too is being affected by the greatest refugee disaster since World War II, and for solidarity with our children and those who come after us, at a time when there is no longer any doubt that the temperature of the earth is rising due to the irresponsiblely high greenhouse gas emissions of humans. Solidarity is a powerful force. It must be the bearer value and the fundamental principle of the difficult transition through which Norway – from a fossil nation to a low-carbon society, from oil dependence to a green industry, from growing unemployment to full employment, from increasing inequality to social cohesion and from irresponsible use of oil money to sustainable financing of our common well-being. Then the contrast to the budget unit of citizens is great, because it is a budget that does not meet the major migration challenges despite the slogans of the same day. It's a budget where we can read that we're not even prepared to achieve our climate targets for 2020 in 2030. It's a budget of a government that's been in arrears in the face of the refugee crisis. It's a budget that makes the Norwegian economy vulnerable by the fact that we're still on our way into the green shift at a much too low and modest pace. And it's a budget that makes the welfare state vulnerable in the long term by reducing the state's income while increasing the cost through an oil money usage we know we're not going to have coverage for in the future. Conversion requires redistribution. The SV's alternative budget for new solidarity is also a budget for a strong policy of distribution – from wealth, heritage and property to work, from those who have the most, to those who have the least, from banks to children, from consumption to community and from fossil to renewable. All that is contained in this draft budget can be proposed with significantly lower oil spending than the government. SV provides a more responsible budget than the government, where we spend 7 billion. kr less than Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen and 3 br. kr less than the Working Party. It is because we give stronger and tougher priority and dare to promote the proposals that will make Norway environmentally, socially and economically sustainable in the future. SV believes that the main priorities the Stortinget should do for 2016 are the following five: a force for international solidarity – we want to increase humanitarian aid to Syria and Syria’s neighbourhoods to a total of 3 billion. kr; an integration policy that works – a more efficient settlement system, a strong escalation of staff reception for minors while increasing the appropriations for the return of those who are not allowed to stay; an action package for unemployment of 5.6 billion. In order to speed up the green shift and create the jobs of the future, start introducing a new school day and with it a better everyday life for Norwegian families – the full-time school is the next major school and welfare reform in Norway. Therefore, SV suggests nearly 2,000 more years of teaching on the small step. We're proposing 100 million. kr for a national test on school toys instead of homework. And we want to introduce half an hour of physical activity every day throughout the childhood and start reforming free school food in primary school; a green and a red tax shift, where we can increase environmental taxes and make it more expensive to pollute, but at the same time provide lower taxes on ordinary labour income, so that people have the opportunity to participate in the environmental virtue we're going to do. If there's ever been a time for solidarity, willingness to change and accountability, it's now. It's sad that we have a majority that can't handle that challenge. There is another course, a better path, and it will be a course for new solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1669	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1672	The state budget is also very important for children. And even though the child's legal certainty was not part of the five-point list for the representative Lightbakken, I know that there is something SV very busy about. The working party and SV have stood together since the first establishment of the children's houses and fought to strengthen them. Now we have a situation where the capacity is blown up on many children's houses around the country. The waiting times increase, and there's a situation that requires increased permissions. The working party proposes 62 million. kr more than the budgetary agreement to investigate the choice and abuse of children and the operation of children's housing, plus a new children's home in the police district of East. We also believe that the means of operation must be earmarked. Then my question about SV supports the Labour Party in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1677	I think this is a good proposal, and SV would like to take part in the proposal on earring. I think ear tagging is necessary in terms of both the children's homes and part of the other offers, rights and services we have to target our most vulnerable children. The experience is that it is through earmarking that we have the power to raise the concerns of these groups most in Norwegian policy. Such an experience is the child protection promise that the representative Wagslid and I agreed on in the previous period, which would have been impossible to implement without earmarking. I fear that the same applies to the children's houses, and therefore there is a policy SV can support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1682	This is a kind of question that I asked earlier in the hall. I think SV is very good at problem descriptions, and they have – quite correctly – a budget that spends a little less oil money than this government does. But if you go back to the famous level of taxation from 2013, when you left the government, the red-green government had the largest space of action in Norwegian history, the largest of any government ever had, and probably will ever get. Nevertheless, the government left an increasing unemployment rate, an increase in hospital cows, 5 000 refugees with approved residence in line with asylum recipients for residence. For a party that promised to eliminate poverty when it went to elections in 2005 – in fact, there were 15 000 more poor children than when the red-greens took over – was there a lack of priorities that made these problems unsolved when you left the offices in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1687	It is worth noting that some of the problems mentioned by the representative here have been considerably reinforced under this government – some without government fault, others because of the policies that have been pursued since then. We believe there are other solutions. Some of those solutions were also solutions we were for before 2013, but were not implemented for. Let me take poverty: the proportion of the poor in the Norwegian population went down under the red-green government. Among the elderly, poverty fell sharply. What we know, however, is essential in order to bring down child poverty, and to which there is no political will in this room – either today or before 2013 – is to increase the income of the poorest families. In our draft budget, we will solve it through a higher level of child welfare, especially for families with multiple children and single-parent families. We know that it had brought poverty down. When it comes to settlement, I, as the Minister of Inclusion, put forward a proposal for a new settlement system, which we have now been promoting again in the Grand Duchy, and which I am convinced must do in order to achieve a more efficient system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1696	First of all, thank you for a very good contribution from the representative Lightbakken. I think he is better when he talks out SV's policy than in some of the lines I have heard. I have intended to challenge him on the message about the air passenger charge, because both me and Audun Lightbaken are concerned that it will pay to choose green, and that it will be more expensive to pollute. Ideally, I had rather seen a general charge that had made all fossil fuels more expensive, but I think that the air passenger charge also actually has a lot of good for itself. I see that today there is a majority on the non-social side of the air passenger charge in the Chamber, while there is no majority on the socialist side. I think that when the Green Tax Commission comes and when we're going to work on different measures, it's important that a pressure is put on to make pollution more expensive. That is the consequence when it is also going to be cheaper to choose environmentally friendly. Does the representative Lysbakken have a message for the Workers' Party about what he thinks about the air passenger fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1706	I think the Workers' Party is wise to step down its rhetoric against the change in fees that has come. There is no doubt that if the Workers' Party is to have a majority in favour of a new government after 2017, together with both SV and, hopefully, as many of the centre parties as possible, they will have to participate in a green tax conversion, hopefully significantly stronger than what we see now, because that is what we need for the future. It is the SV and the Christian People's Party entirely in agreement. I share the representative's view that it is not certain that this is the ultimate way of taxing air traffic, but I appreciate the willingness to do so. I think it is also possible to look at models that can make us e.g. tax more on the least-needed part of air traffic in order to take district into account. We wholeheartedly support the polluter pays principle, including in the air. That should also be done by the Workers' Party and the Center's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1718	In our social security resolution, SV voted against and broke the pension agreement, because one believed that pensioners were getting too little. At the same time, in the budget, SV opposes the government's proposal to increase the pension of married and co-operative pensioners, and one opposes the proposal of the cooperative party to increase the minimum pension of single minimum pensioners. I thought it was a little confusing. I would like to ask the representative Lysbakken the following questions: Is SV saying that next year the pensioners are going to get too little or too much paid?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1725	We're committed to having a pension system that doesn't make pensioners risk getting out as one group in Norwegian society that actually loses purchasing power, as they do with the social security settlement that went through for 2015. We're against that. We believe that this was never the intention of the pension agreement and is amazed that it slipped through the Stortinget. SV has fought for a higher minimum pension in many ways. Now there was a proposal, at the tame of this budgetary process. I think it was good that some social cohesion came into that arrangement, where the main act was a strengthening of the pensions that socially struck out very crooked, and as I know the representative Rotevatn was initially opposed. I'm just referring to the red-green years when we had a huge increase in the minimum pension. This was the main reason why poverty among the elderly fell significantly in Norway during the years we crashed. I think it was a positive and good development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1732	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1735	Differences between people in Norway are increasing, unemployment has become worse, and unemployment is the highest in over 20 years – 127 000 people are now out of work. The ability of local authorities to provide good welfare services is weakened and the specific challenges of local communities are now much less readily addressed than before. There has been a great deal of cutback in the means of regional policy. Never has Norway been close to spending as much oil as in next year's government budget. Nevertheless, it is cut — many large sections, including in basic services — that characterise the local government sector now. It takes place in health and care, at school, in kindergartens and in many other services — and also affects investment, maintenance of construction and infrastructure. If the majority of the population had been more active in municipalities, welfare protection would have been avoided, services could be improved, and it would have been an effective contribution to the increase in unemployment. But the government is only making the situation worse, and the support parties have either lowered their priorities or failed to reach – in this way – in the very difficult budgetary negotiations. The reality is that 2016 will be a very tough year for many municipalities and counties. It should and could have been saved for the inhabitants. But we have a government on the wrong track. Tax havens, especially for those who have the most from before, go ahead of everything – absolutely everything. If the Workers' Party's alternative government budget had received a majority today, the municipalities would have received about 4 billion next year. kr more than they'll get now. This includes approx. 1 billion. to meet the challenges created by the refugee situation. It is essential that these tasks related to the refugee situation can be properly addressed without prejudice to the provision of services. In our alternative state budget, hospitals also receive more money in order to increase activity and improve quality. We are working offensively to get more people to work now and in the future. Our alternative gives people more security in everyday life, it gives less difference and increases climate action. We have Norwegian economy and industry, and not least future generations, in mind when we provide less money from the oil fund than the government parties and the cooperation parties do. ‘Work for all is job number one’. That's what we've called our alternative state budget. It's a title that tells us about the History of the Workers' Party, and that points forward to what's most important in meeting the greatest challenges of our time. We pick up four areas of activity: Those who are going to build the country: here we present a series of actions for increased competence, including: through several places of study, several vocational training places and several places of action. We want stronger and more flexible permitting legislation, and we need to ensure the seriousness of the labour market. We must have businesses and a business that is profitable, and we want ‘Growth in the whole country’, which we have just called our second investment. We will facilitate a broad and strong bioeconomy effort in Norway, with targeted green and blue sector investment. We will support innovative business clusters and we will have a regional accelerator program for entrepreneurs. We have 200 million. kr more than the government, almost 150 million. more than agreed, for targeted regional development work – to mention something. We've said it before, and we're saying it again, health in everything we do. We've put a total of 800 million off. more than the government for various health initiatives in schools and for sports facilities related to after-sales and VAT, we have many outdoor activities and substantial support for various voluntary actors in the field. The path to the low-carbon society is our fourth cross-sectoral effort. 700 million. kr we have added to a national public transport uplift in big cities. We prioritise more money than the government for rail purposes, for climate and forest bets and for the environmental technology system. Obviously, immigration and integration also have an important place in our alternative budget. I hope the Stortinget will be able to reach an agreement in the negotiations that is now under way on arrangements for integration work, and I sincerely hope that we from Stortinget before Christmas will be able to give the municipalities signals that there will be more money for this purpose than what will be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1765	2016 is going to be a very demanding year. That is why the government has provided a budget for work, activity and conversion. We see that the country is divided. The county that had the highest growth in the entire previous ageing period, Rogaland, is the county that has now gained the highest unemployment rate in the country in a relatively short period of time. The city I come from has far higher leave than Rogaland, with 5.5 pst. This makes the impression on the government and our cooperation parties. That's why we've made a very good government budget. But the situation is not so black. Remember that over 95 pst. Norway has a job. More than half of those who get a cancellation are in the job again within three months. This means that you have a business that is capable of looking for new jobs, and the workforce is able to change. For those who are unable to get a job on their own, the government is now increasing the number of places of action in ordinary working life quite a lot, and from 1 January we will reap the full impact of changes in the action structure and improvements at Nav, which we adopted at Easter times this year in connection with new work environment legislation. It'll seem a lot faster. The priority will be given to these areas with the highest unemployment rates. We get the full effect of a new work environment law in 2016. It is likely that the third year in a row in which the social partners make very reasonable wage settlements — which shows that the growth in earnings in Norway is falling. The forecasts show that interest rates remain low throughout 2016, the krone price is good for Norwegian business, and sick leave is falling. Macro-conditions that make it easier for business to change play with a government budget for work, activity and change. We also make changes to the legislation on permitting already in force. Among other things, we have as from 1 October of this year, it amended for those on leave — they may combine it with initial education. I also have expectations that Nav will have a more flexible interpretation of the daily allowance for those who have started an education and who are now losing their job. Nav must also contribute with the government. The major challenge is also the number of refugees who will eventually be resident in a number of municipalities in 2016 and who will eventually receive a work permit. For most of them it's going to be fine. They're going to learn Norwegian, they're going to be offered Norwegian courses. Many of them are competent, they have to identify the education they have from their home country. Norway currently has a somewhat unbridled labour market, but if you go 5, 10, 15 or 20 years ahead, this is actually the labour force that Norway needs. We can use the transformation that is now taking place to also be involved in the conversion of our new countrymen who will stay here. The government focuses on those who are going straight out again, who have come here as migrants, and we also focus on helping those who have come into Norway and who are actually going to live because they have a real need for protection and are going to create a better life for themselves and their families. We're going to make sure that Nav is rigged, and that the inter-municipal and municipal back-up companies are rigged to help those who need it into the workplace. The Labour and Social Committee – thanks to the agreement of the Stortinget – needs to have a review of the legislation on pensions, day-to-day pay and rights that refugees and asylum seekers have previously had very easy access to. It worked pretty much when there were some thousand a year. But this can no longer continue – when there are so many who have received it. I am very happy that we have a budget of work, activity and conversion – more to go, more to maintenance and contribution to the municipality. The issue of refugees is going to have an enormous impetus for employment too, which is sub-communicated until now. And we also find room for research, tax relief and a good commitment to education. So this is a good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1784	We can certainly say that there has been a change of mood in Norwegian politics with the Progress Party in government, and that as we have promoted matters with a clear advance party stamp, the other parties will no longer stand for their original position. They've a little after a while started to approach the Progress Party, because they're very afraid that we're going to get away with the gain of most people by making good decisions, while they're fighting against it. For us, it's very gratifying that the parties come to us in part, so it's rather our job towards the next election to convince people to give their voice to the original rather than to the copy if they want a greater impact in different policy areas. I would like to highlight three areas in particular: the asylum agreement has been extensively debated earlier today, but is perhaps the most obvious issue in terms of transposition. If I had said three months ago that both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left would vote for an asylum settlement based solely on the premises of the Advance Party, I think more people would have considered calling the psychiatric department to get me checked. But that is now what has happened, and they have voted for such a settlement. All lots other than the Advance Party are for the collection of tolls. All the other parties think this is a very good way to finance our infrastructure. In the government, on the other hand, we have experienced, despite the reduced strength compared to the previous ageing period, a majority in order to remove seven toll projects, we have reduced tariffs on many more, and despite persistent protests from, for example, the United States. The centre party when we proposed reduced rates at E18 in Westfold, they crept to the cross and voted for when the matter was adopted in the hall. It would probably be called other populist behavior and double communication, but I'm not going to judge that. On the other hand, I am pleased about the impact and that we have adopted a toll reform to reduce the fares for the drivers. The last point I want to make concerns fiscal policy, and I have to admit that it is a bit funny to record that speakers from beyond all parties in the Chamber today have been busy talking about tax breaks. And while the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre used the election campaign in 2013 to talk about that less tax means less well-being, most parties are now talking about the need to reduce taxes for both ordinary people and companies in the form of lower corporate tax. The Socialist Left Party and the representative Serigstad Valen are today trying to be the best in the class of tax reliefs to ordinary people, but the fact is that when they were in position, they provided them with increased taxes with revenues between 450 000 and 750 000 kroner – in the period 2005–2013. Reducing the tax in the opposition is terribly simple, but a progress party is needed to also implement it in position. With the Progress Party in government, we no longer stand on the outside and fight in vain for our political solutions to be heard, but instead we are the prime providers of the political debate. We have reduced the level of taxation in three consecutive budgets, and we have more to go on. This year we presented a tax reform that shows the way for our plans for the next few years. The goal is, among others: reducing company tax to 22 pst. in 2018 to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian business. While the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2015 suggested that the tax level should return to the 2013 level, they have now capitulated and realised that we are reducing taxes too much, so that it will be problematic for them to go to elections in 2017 to increase taxes back to the 2013 level. They continue to propose tax increases of about 10 billion. kr for 2016, but I think they have realised that back to the 2013 level will be a far too unpopular message to take into a campaign, especially when the scare-mongering propaganda that less tax means less well-being, turned out not to vote anyway. The Labour Party used the 2013 election campaign to tell how many hospitals and how many teachers we could get instead of tax havens, but the fact is that after two years in government, there are on the contrary more teachers and more hospitals combined with increased private welfare for the individual in terms of reduced tax. In sum, I am pleased that the Progress Party has ensured a solid impact in the 2016 budget in the form of a strong commitment to transport, a reduction in the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, a pilot project with government funding for the care of the elderly, hundreds of new police posts and a new charging model for the purchase of new cars that ensures that safe, environmentally friendly family cars become more reasonable. These are all recognizable issues for those who have voted on the Progress Party, and in combination with the asylum agreement, it shows that the Progress Party is currently having a significant impact on Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1805	Many newly elected local government officials around the country have had a difficult budget harvest. Since the government in its first two budgets deprived the municipalities, some might have hoped that the budget for next year would make a difference, even in the ranks of the government parties. When Dagens Næringsliv in connection with Højre's national meeting this spring asked the rapporteurs to the Right what kind of matter was most important to prioritise in the state budget for 2016, the municipal economy came first. 40 pst. of the asked thought improved municipal economy is most important. Now we've got the fasit, and unfortunately, the government continues in the same track as before. The signals have not been taken from local elected representatives, although the Right Party and Advance Party in the autumn election campaign in no way held back on the promises of more elderly care and better schooling. The growth in the income of municipalities is much lower now than in the period 2006–2013, when it was the economic structure of the red-green government for the municipalities that received a majority. Now there's another majority in this room, and it's noticed around Norwegian municipalities. Next year, municipalities will have to live in record numbers of refugees. It's a formidable task, and it's a task that hasn't gotten any easier from the government's lack of handling. Today, the asylum agreement is to be formally adopted in Stortinget. That's good, it's important that the parties here stand together in a difficult situation for the country. At the same time, it is worth recalling that very many of the points included in the agreement could have been implemented by the government within their powers. It's especially that the Storting has to get in and instruct the government about things like that. to put more case handlers in Storskog. In any case, the municipalities have been given a major task and the signals from the elected representatives are that this challenge is they ready to join with the inhabitants of their communities. The municipalities with the rapporteurs in charge are ready to respond to the Prime Minister's invitation to do so, but at the same time they are calling for support from the entire government, from both government parties' representatives, both centrally and locally. The person who invites to do the job must also participate himself. The financial framework conditions proposed by the government for the municipalities in the government budget next year are too poor. Increased integration grants could be provided. Greater compensation could be proposed for municipal child protection expenditure for single minor asylum seekers. The free income of municipalities could be increased so that municipalities could finance the further development of schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly and integration measures. But the government doesn't. On the other hand, the government has proposed that Norwegian training be cut in receipt, so that those to be settled in municipalities have had fewer hours of Norwegian training when they are to be settled. This could make integration work more difficult and increase the bill for municipalities around the next turn. In addition, the government in the budget sent a little special greeting to the municipalities that have reception centres for lone minor asylum seekers – they cut off the grant for the training and sent the bill to the municipalities. Honor the Christian People's Party and the Left at this point because they got to reverse it cut. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we have found room for enhanced integration grants, greater compensation for municipal expenditure on child protection, and not least a significant increase in the free income of municipalities. All in all, it's about 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities than it does in the composition of the government and in the budgetary agreement. We also propose raising housing, because the vast majority of municipalities state that housing shortages are the main obstacle to housing. With our arrangement, there would be grants for 2,500 rental properties and an increase in the HBS bank's loan framework of 7 billion. kr. In a time when there is going to be a great need for more dwellings, the government chooses to cut into the frames of the House Bank. Strengthened local economy was a main priority for the red-green government. This is how municipalities were able to employ pre-school teachers, nurses and teachers. In our period, employment in the municipal sector increased by an average of 8,500 per year. In 2014, employment growth fell to 5000. It is a great paradox in the budget. We have a lot of unsolved problems, we have a lot of money at our disposal, and we have 127 000 people out of work. Nevertheless, the government fails to deposit the money and the human resources where they are most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1828	The situation for our country is more challenging than for a long time. Many people feel that times are uncertain, and especially those who have become unemployed. The oil price has fallen and thus the unemployment rate has increased, especially in the West. Many refugees choose to come to Norway. There is terror in parts of Europe. All of this can be seen as an uncertainty for families and individuals. Political accountability and security for all of us are therefore absolutely necessary. There is no doubt that the government accepts that there is a difficult situation, and that this must be reflected in this matter we now have to deal with. Fortunately, Norway is well equipped to meet the challenges here. But we are dependent on a well-educated population, that we have the power to maintain and create new profitable jobs, that competitiveness is not weakened, and that the public sector provides the services that are to be provided without the unwarranted increase in bureaucracy. We have been used to some heavy petroleum revenue growth. There has been low price growth of imported goods and a high demand for labour in the mainland economy. Now it's not like that anymore. Although a low price price has helped our export industry, the price cap has and will lead to higher and more expensive imports. However, it can be expected that the turnaround could lead to an increase and new investment, thus increasing the activity of the Norwegian economy. Lower wage increases could also contribute to improving competitiveness. With, inter alia: This as a hindrance, the government has presented the state budget for 2016. The budget is partly very expansive, but this needs to be seen in the light of the current situation in the Norwegian economy and the uncertainty in the future. This is particularly true of the difficult position in which parts of Norwegian business are located, and targeted measures are therefore important. The measures proposed in the budget address actual needs such as infrastructure and construction maintenance. Much of this is directed at those regions that are experiencing the greatest increase in unemployment now. In particular, it is important to continue working on a more growth-promoting tax system, including tax incentives that move in the same direction. The 2016 budget provides good leadership for this policy. For business, transport policy and general economic policy, especially in the field of taxation, may be the main policy areas. The appropriations for the development of road and public transport will be increased beyond the financial framework of NTP 2014-2023. The budget for 2016 provides for better management of existing infrastructure, more resources for operation and maintenance, which has led to a reduction in the road maintenance run in 2015 for the first time in a very long time. These are measures that will strengthen employment and industry in the future and will increase activity. The proposed tax changes in the budget are in total relatively modest. We will return to a broader debate on this with regard to the future tax system. But already for 2016, a new course is launched that underpins the main lines of work, activity and conversion. From a business point of view, and for some of us, it's a disappointment that the wealth tax and its degradation take a break. We know the reasons for this, but this strange, very burdensome and partly unfair tax must be reduced and removed in the long term, especially on working capital. We'll probably get this in plenty of monn back to. Fortunately, the bottom line also increases slightly for 2016, which is evidence that this area is important – especially in the situation described earlier for our working and business life. It is therefore alarming that in its 2016 alternative budget, the Workers' Party is increasing the property tax by 3.2 billion. kr. The rate is proposed to increase and the bottom subtraction lowered. The special set-up would be directly harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises and their owners. These must, as you know, pay taxes on the company's wealth even in times when the enterprise is in deficit. Not long ago I heard knowingly the Labour Party's fiscal figure saying that this was a side of the wealth tax that was very problematic. So increasing this tax was the answer. The budget for 2016 has become available in cooperation with others. Negotiations on this issue have been a long one. But it has something positive in itself that the government parties find the good solutions together with the partners Christian People's Party and Left. It must be permissible to say that the right is glued to this work. It creates security for all of us, and not least it provides trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1854	Let me say that it is not the programme of the Progress Party that is being adopted today, but that is the case when you do not have a majority alone. The budget that has now been presented still has a clear Progress Party stamp, which I am proud of. Norway is in a difficult period, with a large influx of asylum seekers and migrants. I dare not think of what the situation would have been if not the Advance Party and the government had taken a leading role that led to a good settlement. It is worth noting that there is a settlement based on the solutions of the Advance Party from the past, solutions that we in this room have been ridiculed for having had. I shall not go further into it, for it has been explained by our excellent parliamentary leader, Harald Tom Nesvik. We are also in a difficult labour market situation, but the situation is not clear. Some areas in the South-West have been hit hard, while other areas with more traditional industries are going well. The government responds to these developments in the budget in a number of ways. One of many measures is to make it easier and more profitable for those who create jobs. Making more profitable operations leads to more and safer jobs. In other words, we add up to more private profitable jobs. So how do we do that? Not as some others want, namely by inflating the public sector. No, we do that by reducing the tax burden on both business and population, and so far we've reduced the tax burden by 18 billion. kr. But it's not just taxes. The government is delivering on one of the major aspects of business, namely the transport side, both in terms of investment in new, modern roads and routes, and by resuming the huge lag in maintenance, which went down for the first time last year. The cost of transporting products to and from the market and districts is significant due to the topography in Norway. The strong commitment to transport, both on the road and by rail, reduces these costs. It means more profitability, and thus the ability to hire more people. As others have mentioned, the solution is not just more money, but change and innovation. That's what the government does through, among other things. the toll reform, which alleviates the burden on business and makes it cheaper to transport the products to the market. Another structural measure is the road carrier, which reduces the cost of building major sections of the road. An important area for the Progress Party over many years has been a fair pension also for married and cohabiting pensioners. That is what we are going to do in this budget. It is a clear Party stamp on the budget. For the Progress Party, it has been important to reduce waiting lists for treatment at our hospitals. Since this government took over, health cows have been reduced by 25 000 people, and we are not stopping there. The government continues to increase patient treatment by significantly increasing its budget compared to previous years. As mentioned earlier, we lower the level of taxes and taxes, and in particular we make structural changes in the charging of cars. We have a system based on penalising the use of safety equipment in cars by charging weights. The same applies to charging engine power over emissions. This has led us to keep old, immature engines instead of replacing them with the latest, new technology. I'm glad we've reached an agreement between the four parties to do this. With regard to the fare, I do not want to take credit, because I believe that those to be honored should receive the credit. But I want to honor the representative Hans Andreas Limi for the Limi discount of 1 billion. kr. It could have been 2 billion. NOK, but because of this discount we have cut down heavily on the fee. It's an honor he should get. But all in all, it's the whole thing that counts, and it's good. It would have been significantly better for taxpayers if the Progress Party programme had been adopted, but that was not the case this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1876	It is agreed that investing in school and education is important to meet the challenges facing Norway in the future. Many of the businesses of the future are going to be established by those who are children today, and much of the technology of the future and the solutions of the future are going to be developed by those who are currently sitting on the school bench learning numbers and letters and doing their best to break the reading code. It is important that we succeed in Norwegian school, not only because students are entrepreneurs and workers of the future, but also because school is an important part of children’s everyday life and growth. That's why we have to have a school that facilitates professional development, a school where children can feel safe, experience that they are seen and met with respect every day, and where they can evolve like whole people. We have a good school in Norway. The students learn a lot. Most people like it pretty much, and thousands of teachers do a huge job every day. But that doesn't mean we're not going to take the challenges we have seriously. One of the challenges is that there are too many students who don't succeed. There are too many children who get a slightly squirmy start at school, because it's now that all children are different. Some people need a little bit more time than others to understand plus and minus, and while some people can both read and write on the day they go into the school gate for the very first time, the second one needs a little bit more time to crack the reading code. The Training Act is clear that all children have the right to adapted training, but in practice it may be difficult to follow up. Some children do not get the help and follow-up they need, and often help comes too late. Students who could manage perfectly well if they had got a little bit more time with their teacher, experience falling off the load because the teacher doesn't have time. They get knowledge gaps that it is very difficult to close later, and they get a challenging starting point for further education. This is not about the competence of the teachers, it is not about the competence of the teachers. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have good, competent and competent teachers, and we are proud to be part of a continuing education and training promise. This challenge is primarily about the framework of the teaching profession. This is because the teachers have too little time for the students and that the individual teacher is responsible for many students. If you are alone in charge of 25 students who are different, who have different starting points and who are at different levels, and feel that time does not go far enough to help everyone, it does little to help with further education. I don't think even a master's degree will be able to help you. What you need is, first of all, more time, enough time for each student. In order for each teacher to have more time for each student, we need more teachers. In the 2015 budget, the Christian People's Party received an impact on increasing teacher density through an earmarked grant to some 700 new teaching positions for the smallest students. I am pleased that there is also room for more teaching positions in the 2016 budget agreement. The cooperation parties have agreed to use 320 million. kr for several teaching positions of 1–4. class steps from school start next autumn. It represents about 1,000 new teaching positions. There are 1,000 more teachers who will be ready to accept the students when they enter the school gate. There are 1,000 new teachers who can spend time on those students who struggle a little bit more than the others who need a little bit more time, and who can spend time on those students who may be a little bit ahead of the others, and who need some extra challenges. This is a particularly important effort at a time when Norwegian school must be prepared to receive a large number of children coming to our country as refugees. Research tells us that increasing teacher density is particularly beneficial for those students who are professionally weak, for children with a foreign background and for children of parents with a low socio-economic status. These are the same children we find again as overrepresented in special education and as overrepresented in non-response statistics in secondary education. Therefore, this early school effort is an important and targeted effort to help students who need it the most, and a commitment that will lead to the success of more children in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1895	I want to start by congratulating the government. Jens Stoltenberg never succeeded, we were not even close to the financial crisis, Norway has passed Germany and soon we take back the United States – it was a Right-Fremskrit party government that needed to: Norway is now one of the countries in Europe where unemployment is growing fastest. We have seen that the government has been concerned with EU adaptation – the European Minister is even present – but that it is also more surprising that it should be adapted to the EU level of unemployment. Not in 20 years has Norway seen such a high level of unemployment. For those who have lost their jobs, the situation is serious. An leave of 4.6 pst. The figures may not sound so much, but there are 127 000 individuals — with family and friends — who face Christmas with great uncertainty. I even know several of them from home, from Stavanger. It's all from engineers who, after a long professional life, have been put on leave, it's the newly educated student from the University of Stavanger who doesn't find himself a job after studying, and it's the apprentice who doesn't get to finish, and now it's without a letter. Misunderstand me correctly – The Labour Party does not believe that the government is responsible for the low oil price, but it is responsible for the measures taken to meet the growing unemployment. The government could have set the Workers' Party's alternative budget for inspiration. We have a 7 billion measure package. kr, a joint planning code, well-tuning, ferry services and an accelerator programme for new jobs. But it's not Idea that's hit the government. Norway has a finance minister who dismisses issues of increasing unemployment because the budget is adapted to the economic situation. We have a prime minister who has negotiated a third of his own package of measures. We have a government that is passive when unemployment grows. That's crazy politics. It seems that the government doesn't think it's possible to reverse the development and reduce the unemployment, so they either cut the transfers to the unemployed. When the government talks about migration, measures are not followed up. It's classic for the right-hand side not to have faith in the community, and it's definitely true here. The message for the 127 000 unemployed is: Go home and reset yourself. The government is also facing increasing unemployment with political games and empty rhetoric. It is the opposition that is the problem when we notice that it is cut in the action package. The unemployed are still waiting for answers. But fear not – they will receive answers from the Workers' Party. Our answer is different from that of the government. We think it is possible to stop the increasing unemployment, but it requires leadership and willingness to face the crisis with concrete measures. That is why we are proposing measures aimed at those who become unemployed. We want a more cohesive regulatory framework, extended to 52 weeks, we want more action places, and we propose a targeted effort to get young people back into the labour market. The youth unemployment rate is now over 10 pst. There are 70,000 young people out of work. It's serious. It requires action. That is why we have a long list in our package for youth unemployment, where I would like to highlight our proposal on Nav Ung. There is a targeted initiative in Nav where the goal is to get young people into work or education as soon as possible. It includes a more flexible regulatory framework where, for example: may combine education and daily allowances. Because no matter how much it costs, it pays to get young people into work or education. The working party also proposes measures to keep the activity up in the sectors that are struggling. In our alternative budget, we have an action package of over 7 billion. kr. We provide ferry services for river ferries, we want wells to study, we want to bet on collectives in big cities. The 127 000 who do not have a job need action that now works. We are also proposing an active industrial policy for new growth and jobs. So let's see, we're going to have 250 million. kr to an accelerator program. With our matching arrangement, half a billion dollars will be available to entrepreneurs at an early stage. I've been talking to a lot of entrepreneurs around the country. There are measures such as the accelerator program they want — not tax cuts. In our alternative, we also focus on technology transfer, on commercialisation of research and on bioeconomy – actions that will help create more jobs. The government, with its budget, shows that it does not understand Norway. It is a serious response to the 127 000 unemployed, to the young people now out of work, to all those who need targeted, concrete action now. Therefore, it is very regrettable that the proposals put forward today by the Workers' Party to combat the increasing youth unemployment, to secure and create new jobs, are downgraded by those who govern the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1923	Norway is a good country to live in. When we look around us in the world, we understand how privileged we are. War, the refugee crisis and the humanitarian crises are taking place in a troubled world. It also has consequences for us up here in our peaceful corner. Norway will, and must, take its share of responsibility for people who need protection and suspension, and many of those who come will be bowing in our country. It is important that we have legislation and social welfare schemes which contribute as much as possible to the integration of those who are temporarily suspended, and it is important that those who are not entitled to protection and who have been refused their application are returned as soon as possible. It's great to see how Volunteer Norway is doing in this demanding time. This situation will confront us with major economic challenges in 2016 and years to come – together with the Norwegian economy in reverse. It requires a budget for a special situation. The budgetary process has been particularly demanding in terms of the influx of refugees and the economic, practical and political challenges it brings. It was positive that we got a broad deal in the Stortingen around the measures of tightening up, and we see that the asylum number goes down. For decades we in Norway have experienced an adventurous growth and development, thank you very much for our oil. In retrospect, when we're going to write history, we might call it the oiltime adventure, but it's changed. Since the summer of 2014, the oil price has fallen from $15 to less than $45 in the fall. This coincides with fewer planned investments in oil-related industries. Norwegian companies face tough challenges, and many workers feel insecure. More people have experienced loss of jobs, and for young people it has become more difficult for some occupational groups to enter the profession. Decreases in the oil price and the need for conversion affect parts of the labour market. We have seen an increasing unemployment in the last year, especially in the countries related to the oil industry. It is therefore positive that the budget has measures aimed at rescheduling industries and regions and measures specifically directed at young people. There is reason to listen to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority who comes with caution because the Nordics have record high debt and housing prices are close to record high levels. Households' debt is rising faster than income, despite Norway's experiencing weaker economic growth. At the same time, unemployment is increasing, while the purchasing power of people is developing weaker than before because of the leaner pay gap. Finance Norway published the Expectation Survey 4th quarter no in November, which says that no Norwegians have ever had less faith in the Norwegian economy. The Nordics understand the economic situation and the changes we are facing. At the same time, the barometer shows that the Nordics have faith in a struggle in their own economy, because most people have a job to go to, and unemployment shows that there are great geographical differences, such as: are inland and North Norway in a different situation from the south and west. When a business operator asks what action they consider to be most important to stimulate business, the answer is often more strongly focused on trade, knowledge, innovation and research and taxes, taxes and framework conditions that do not favour foreign investors. Business operators also report that there is too little innovation and entrepreneurial activity in new industries. As a representative of Telemark, it is particularly gratifying that a new Seed Fund for Agder and Telemark was found in the budget agreement. It's been trying to get in place for years. It is important for Telemark, which has a weaker growth rate in the population and the creation of new jobs than for other countries. The government is delivering what business demands. On the move, the bet is record high. There will be more money for knowledge, innovation and research. And for the first time, 1 pst is used. of GDP for research and development, which both secures old and creates new jobs. A new, growth-promoting and simpler tax system will stimulate value creation and employment. We need to create more – not more taxes – to secure jobs and future well-being. In this budget, the government has implemented tax credits corresponding to 18 billion. kr. In this budget, the government has contributed to ensuring just work, activity and migration in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1946	Norway is well-known for a demanding period in several areas. Decreased oil prices have contributed to an increase in unemployment. In fact, unemployment is still relatively low, but we need to take the increase seriously. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that had this as its main act in the state budget, and that they presented a government budget for work, activity and conversion. However, with regard to the fight against unemployment, the government has carried out several arrests in recent years, including the following: have been given a more flexible and modern working environment law that will make working life more suitable for more people, and not least make it easier to get into the labour market. Despite the challenges we face and the challenges we have to address, it is important not to forget those who actually built our country. The country’s pensioners deserve a great deal of thanks for the fact that Norway is today one of the world’s best countries to live in. But then we see time and again that the country's elderly and retired people are getting very low on the order of priorities for many politicians and parties – apart from the election campaigns correctly. We have seen many examples of this in recent years. The majority voted against the vote of the Progress Party on a pension reform that resulted in reduced pensions. I record the opposition's resistance to the government and the struggle of the cooperation parties to strengthen the rights of older workers. I record the fight that some people have waged against state-funded care for the elderly, statutory rights for the elderly, in line with what they have given to children and young people. So the fight for the elderly isn't over. But then it's about retirement, and for the Progress Party, retirement is not something you get, it's something you've actually paid for through a long work life. You have paid in the money yourself, and then the Advance Party has for many years been a strong opponent of the so-called curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. In the past, you were punished with a total of 25 pst. curtailment if you were married or cohabited. The Progress Party made budgetary demands on the Bondevik government and reduced the cut-off from 25 to 15 pst. But the Progress Party was still not satisfied. We're not satisfied until we have removed this entire social abbreviation. I am therefore very pleased that the government has now demonstrated its power of action and put forward a proposal, and together with the cooperation parties, we are fulfilling what we promised, we are now reducing the abbreviation from 15 to 10 pst. That means that a married couple or a cohabiting couple now will get $8,000 more in retirement. That's good, and it really deserves the country's pensioners. But let's be clear that we in the Progress Party are not giving up until we have removed the entire abbreviation. In this period, we have, as I said, reduced it from 15 to 10 pst, but we're not going to surrender until it's completely gone. What disappoints me a little bit is that it's not a unanimous big deal that stands behind wanting to do something about this injustice against the country's pensioners. As I said, the opposition with the Workers' Party in the head, unlike the government's proposal and what is being adopted today, wants to reduce the pension for married and cohabiting persons by NOK 8 000, and this, at the same time as they want to increase taxes and taxes, which affect the elderly very hard. If they had even spent this money on other well-being goods, you could at least have a debate on it, but you can see that the money they save on it is spent on filling up the oil fund. I think that is a very special priority. I also well remember former Prime Minister and Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland who from this pulpit in October 1997 felt that it was nauseating for the Progress Party to propose to increase the minimum pension. Luckily, we had it adopted, and I really hope that it is not the Labour Party's attitude – that it is nauseating to increase the pension and let the country's older people retain the pension they have paid for over a long life. Unfortunately, it is certainly parliamentaryly inappropriate to call it shameful, so I shouldn't do that, I am content to say that I am very disappointed in the opposition, which does not favour the country's pensioners to keep the pension they have paid for a long life, and I am therefore pleased that the government is helping to clean up this injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1961	This autumn has been marked by the fact that there has been a great deal of chaos in budgetary procedures. So out of that chaos, at the end of the day, a decision comes to a government budget that no one wants. It may seem that all the parties behind the majority vote are concerned about getting everything they are not in favour of in the majority vote. I think we are now seeing that a multi-party minority government is the weakest governance instrument a democracy can have, because it gives room for rematches, games and little action, and that is also why we have this debate overtime. We see it clearly in relation to the use of oil money. As Marianne Marthinsen said earlier today: Norway is probably the only country in the world where we have a situation where the opposition is significantly more responsible in view of the total finances of the state than the government parties themselves are. I don't think it can refer to any other example. We have seen it in the context of the difficult situation we have now, with the refugee situation and the additional proposition there, where it was actually the opposition representatives who had to take the initiative to achieve a good and coherent process in the Storting, and we see it not least in the context of the employment situation. So it's been over 20 years since we've had the level of unemployment that we have now. None of us would have thought that we should be in the situation that we are one of the countries where unemployment is increasing rapidly, while in other countries they are now in the process of reducing unemployment, for example. in our neighbouring country Sweden. It's true that the oil price has gone down and that it gives us challenges. No one's accusing the government of that. The question is how to deal with a challenge. Because there's been a crisis before. In the 1990s, the answer was solidarity, where social authorities and social partners worked closely together to meet the challenge and do something with it, not just say that it is challenging and difficult. In the last financial crisis we had, it was a typical feature that we, then state councillors, traveled country and beach around and met with both sides of the labour force, both employers and employees, and on the basis of it came up with measures that we knew would help and that helped. The most important thing about the labour market situation is to take it seriously, and therefore there is reason to thank the social partners who have again taken responsibility this year and also got a very moderate wage settlement. It is time for the government to take the same responsibility: responsibility for a more active industrial policy, which is the most important thing – both Marianne Marthinsen and Torstein Tvedt Solberg have all explained the many measures that we are putting in place there – but also for labour market policy, where we say we need more action places because we need to do something for those who are unemployed. We propose to amend the legislation on leave, in line with the common requests of the majority of businesses and workers' organisations, because they want to make a positive contribution to ensuring that unemployment does not exceed the level required. In particular, we need additional measures for young people, for all experience suggests that if you stay out of work in the youth, there may be few challenges in the labour market later. The government's labour market policy is to take the unemployed. So far in this growing period, the government has punished the unemployed by over 1.8 billion. kr. They take the benefit of what is called the holiday allowance supplement for the unemployed, they cut off the benefits that the unemployed have, and to all the over-measures, the last thing they managed to find at one night they would create a budget, was taxing the termination benefit scheme, which is there to make it easier to contribute to good conversion processes. In addition, they must tax the commuting, which makes it possible to choose a new place of work if you have lost your job. Our conclusion is that the unemployed should have the support of society; they should not be punished by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1974	The government is now entering its third year, and much has been achieved at this time. In health care, waiting times decline, and freedom of choice increases. That's how patients get healthier faster, and they get to decide for themselves. In school, we make good teachers even better through continuing education. Norwegian students also learn more. At universities and in the business world, the government has made it possible for us to solve tomorrow's challenges with more research and more innovation. All over the country more and better roads are now being built faster and more efficiently than before. It creates jobs, lowers transport costs for business and makes everyday life better for those who depend on a car. The railway budget is historically high. Never before has so much been invested in public transport and walking and cycling paths. The budget agreement also makes it cheaper for those who travel a lot by train. In the public sector, we are in the process of renewing, simplifying and improving services for citizens through more digitisation, fewer forms and faster treatment. It saves time and money for both employees and users of public services. In the autumn, the government presented a comprehensive tax reform that allows more jobs to be created. Where some parties seem to believe that more jobs are created by increasing taxes, we believe that tax revenue increases if more is created. The Labour Party believes that we spend too much oil money and too little tax money, and that we should stick to the same level as the Stoltenberg government did in a period of oil-smurfed economic growth. Does the Labour Party really think that we should not stimulate the economy at a time when low oil prices cause people to lose their jobs and Norwegian businesses toil? I find it hard to believe that the Workers' Party believes it, especially because the difference in their budget and government is 4 billion. kr. It represents a difference of 0.3 pst. In reality, the Workers' Party is almost 5 billion missing. kr. in the event of invasions, which means that if it were their budget to govern the country, the taxes had to be increased, the welfare cut or the use of oil money increased more than the government has proposed. Then we're left with hollow rhetoric. The working party says that work for everyone is job number one. We agree, but there is a long way between the proposals in the budget of the Labour Party on how to achieve this objective. On the contrary, the Labour Party responds to the need to create new jobs to increase taxes by over 10 billion. kr., where much of the burden is placed on those who are just about to create the new jobs. The main challenge for the Workers' Party is that the party lacks answers to the challenges it faces. The party will apply yesterday's solutions to tomorrow's challenges. They will have tax levels from 2004, work environment law from 1977, train monopoly from the 1800s and post-monopoly from 1647. The Workers' Party will be elected in 2017 as a reversing party. In the absence of its own solutions, the party chooses to invite broad political settlements – so far as ten in the number – where they can lean back and wait for the government to take the initiative and propose policy solutions. So let's do that. At the same time, however, there is reason to ask what is the Labour Party’s response to the major challenges facing Norway. The answers are not available in the State budget of the Workers' Party. One of the major challenges we face is the transition to the low-carbon society and a greener economy. If we play our cards right, this transformation can create new, green jobs for the future, while reducing emissions and showing the world that it is possible to combine economic growth with greenhouse gas cuts. We have all the prerequisites for creating new, green jobs. The krone price is weakened and Norwegian exports are cheaper. Energy prices are low, and we have a surplus of renewable energy that needs to be used to replace fossil energy and put into value-creating work. At the same time, we have among the world's best technology support schemes for industry and business. Growth opportunities in power-generating industries, green data centres, bioeconomy, alternative fuels and renewable energy are high. The government has taken a number of steps to help trigger this potential. At the same time, governments and cooperation parties have started a comprehensive transition to low- and zero-emission solutions in the transport sector through, inter alia, the transport sector. tax incentives, innovation and technology support and public procurement requirements. Green shipping is one of the main areas of government activity, which can also create significant activity in the marine technology environments and on the Norwegian coast. The government and the cooperation parties have contributed to a significant change in the pace of climate policy. It's necessary if we're going to pick up the traces after the red-green lots. We see in the hall today, and at the latest at Dag Terje Andersen, how several of the red-green parties are milling over environmental taxes on air travel and reduced deductions for commuting by car. It shows one thing: someone's talking about climate. The blue-green majority is doing something about it. It doesn't keep calling itself green, you have to be it in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e1997	When the Stoltenberg government presented its proposal for a State budget in 2013, Prime Minister Solberg’s comment to those who had received money in the budget was that they should not be overjoyed. In other words, there are changes! And it was just going to be missing with a new government, but the few had realized that the Prime Minister's words were going to apply in so many areas and to most people in Norway. Of course, the main government project, tax relief, has delighted the few that are covered by them, but for the vast majority, who have only received a hundred copies of tax relief in the month, was the recommendation not to rejoice too early completely correctly. For the 100-fold tax relief, there is a rapid increase in the cost of kindergarten, increased prostheses and increased electricity charges. Differences between those who have a lot and those who have a little increase with this budget, not only because of the tax relief to those who have the most in the past, but also because the government does not prioritise broad measures against the increasing unemployment or increased efforts to settle and integrate refugees. Losing the job and becoming unemployed are not only serious for those affected, but it is also serious for social development. Work is important both for economic growth and sustainability and to avoid poverty and social exclusion. When unemployment increases, the differences between those who have a job and those who do not have a job also increase. There will be fewer contributions to the community, and there will be pressure on welfare systems. The increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway reinforces these challenges. Greater efforts are needed for housing and integration. Before the fall of asylum seekers, there were 5 000 asylum seekers who have been accommodated and who are waiting for their residence. Now this number is going to be even higher. We therefore need to increase the rate of residence and enable the municipalities to accept and follow up their new inhabitants. At the same time, we must give individual opportunities to contribute to the Norwegian society through education and work. These are challenges that have not been adequately addressed, either in the government budget or through the budgetary agreement. Then one would think that the supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party would contribute to spreading a little joy through the conciliation that has been negotiated, and by a quick review of the seven-page agreement, we find small and big things that can spread joy among some, among other things. in the fields of culture, education, the environment and assistance, which we will also support. Nevertheless, these issues are overshadowed by the fact that the government through the State budget is so clearly showing that they are unable to address the challenges facing Norway. They call it a 'work, conversion and activity budget', but unfortunately the content does not contribute to this. Instead, there is a budget where record oil money is spent on small and large-scale measures, each pointing in all directions and collectively. That's the profile of this budget, and that's the profile of this cooperation and this government. In addition, the four batches again make deposits for which they have not assumed the consequences and for which none of them will be responsible in retrospect. Last year it was the bag tax, which was reversed in retrospect. This year, it's the flight seat fee, a fee that's created strong reactions all over the country. It is pointed out that air routes are going to be shut down, and that workplaces are going to be hit by closures. It is rejected that the charge has some environmental impact. In Eastfold, the NHO and Moss airport Rygge say in a joint press release that the charge threatens both Sandefjord airport Torp and Moss airport Rygge with bankruptcy and closure, as a result of the new charge. 500 employees at the aerodrome will be directly affected. The environmental aspect characterises them as ‘customs’. I'm not going to pass all these claims. What is serious, however, is that this random budgeting by the government, without impact assessments, creates uncertainty and uncertainty about the basis for important infrastructure, for jobs and industries, when we need the opposite. The Workers' Party does not support the government's tax relief. Nor do we support the massive increase in oil money consumption agreed by the government and the support parties in their settlement to finance tax relief and the butter settlement. We do not want to run the risk of an increase in the price of crowns, with the consequences it can have for Norwegian competitive industries and industries and jobs. Nor will we be able to leave the bill for such an oil money use to future generations. The budget of the Workers' Party is a budget in which work for all is the horizontal priority. We need to address the challenges we face in the labour market, in the environment and climate, and with the influx of refugees. We therefore give priority to measures and instruments to achieve growth across the country. We give priority to action on education and skills. We prioritise measures to promote public health and to convert transport, industry and business into a climate-friendly direction. We prioritise good welfare services in municipalities and increase efforts for the integration and settlement of refugees – a budget to build for the future!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2023	This debate is ongoing at the same time as the climate negotiations in Paris, and it is difficult to overestimate the importance of these negotiations. In reality, the negotiations are about the very future of life on earth. Our choices and our ability to implement climate action now will shape the life base, the biodiversity and the natural quality that will live with in the future generation after generation. The agreement is a bottom-up agreement, i.e. that we need to mobilise the entire population, local authorities, businesses, nations and organisations to reduce emissions if we are to be able to achieve the two-degree target in the decades to come. We need to reduce emissions, we need to develop new technologies, we need to be able to establish green markets, we need to develop emission-free and resilient societies, which also manage the climate change that we are going to have, because there will be a change. With the new majority, which came after last major elections, there has been – as others have also pointed out – a shift in the pace of climate policy in Norway. We've got the new goal, we're going to have 40 pst. reduction with the EU by 2030. This budget goes into the range of previous budgets, where we have made important changes, both by removing the user tax on biodiesel and by making biogas competitive and many other decisions. In this budget, we are once again strengthening public transport into the big cities. We're strengthening the railway operation again. We're also adding up to an enhanced bike bet. Yes, it is a green tax change, where an air travel fee is introduced. The aim is that both individuals and businesses should think about one more time before flying, and consider whether this is necessary. This is part of a green tax change. We are strengthening the Eco-Technology Scheme and research, and the funds for international environmental work have, after agreement, increased again, by 520 million. kr. But there are also other measures – there are many climate measures in this budget: There is an increase in the turnover requirement for biofuels, with an escalation up to 2020. The first step is going to be an increase of 5.5 pst. to 7 pst. We also believe that this interference must enter the free diesel. There has been a lot of discussion about the fare, but there may have been less attention on some of the important verbal decisions in the budget. Let me just mention someone: We are today adopting a reduction in landing charges of 25 pst. for aeroplanes using 25 pst. Biofuels. There will be a requirement for a minimum of 30 pst. environmental weights for all public tenders, where applicable. This is a major decision, which will have great significance in the years to come. We agree that we should attach rights to the support for publicly available electric car charging infrastructure by 2020. Although we have good incentives for electric cars in Norway, the infrastructure remains highly deficient, both in terms of the regular charging infrastructure and in terms of high-speed charging. We decide to establish a support system for hydrogen filling stations. Fuel cell and hydrogen also come as a strong zero emission option. We're assuming we're going to have 100 million. kr to a reward scheme for climate action in municipalities, and it shall last for five years. It also offers great opportunities for new actions and innovation. We also say that all new public vehicles and all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains should use low or zero emission technologies, and that the requirements and measures to this effect should be in place before 1 January 2017. We are doing with this decision and action in the transport sector in Norway that no other country is close to doing. We're doing this because we know that we're going to achieve the goal of reducing emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, a large part of this must come within the transport sector. According to the Environment Directorate, almost 100 pst. of all new cars sold in 2025, be a zero-emission vehicle. It shall be achieved in 10 years. In order to achieve the climate agreement’s targets for emissions to be 47 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2020, measures need to be taken now. This is a good climate budget. We take responsibility. It is good for the climate, and it is good for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2066	I think we should all agree that Norway has lived through several decades with a fantastic development in the economy, but at the same time I would like to stress what Svein Flötten said initially in the debate today, and that is that we are now facing perhaps the most challenging situation Norway has had in several decades. I think the debate may bear the mark that at least the opposition has not taken it completely inward. In the opposition, we actually repeatedly warned, year after year, that Norwegian economy was going in one direction, it was very oil-dependent, and we developed more and more a one-legged policy. So when Dag Terje Andersen comes around that you have to negotiate some budgets in the Storting, you can wonder if it's better to have a majority government that doesn't listen to the danger signals out there, than to have a minority government that actually has to negotiate and listen a little bit to the recordings you get. I think maybe the legacy that the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens left behind will describe that we're actually better off having some negotiations going on in the Stortinget, and that you're allowed to make some decisions. Because it is clear that now there are many out there who feel uncertainty. There are many people who feel uncertain about work. There are many who do not know if you can become a resident. You have to take that seriously. That's exactly what the government has done by providing a budget for work, activity and conversion. The government was early out taking these signals. Already from the Declaration of Accession and the first amendment to the budget in 2013, the direction that the rule of action was intended to guide the use of oil money was adopted. There is still a commitment to transport. We're now in front of NTP. There are probably few things in the world that have it more busy than a dead salmon to get into the market, and dead salmon is actually what Norway looks like one of the big industries ahead. There we have a historical and nutrient investment. We're betting on education and research. Since 2013, the appropriations for grants to start-ups, for industrial research, for entrepreneurs and innovation have increased by 2.2 billion. kr. If there's something focused on creating a new business, it's just that. And we have growth-promoting tax relief. Everyone knows the debate on the taxes on wealth. I have to say, I think it's amazing that a majority on the Stortinget agrees that we have perfect capital markets in Norway, that it doesn't matter that the owner lives in the same local environment that you actually invest in, and that you think that international investors come in and replace the private ownership we have around the country. I almost don't think so, but that's actually what you're doing. The fact that we focus so clearly on ownership and private ownership around the country is very important in the transition phase in Norway, I think, is going to prove very important and very correct. So it is a bit moody or situational if the Workers' Party believes that it is too soon or too little too late. It's changed a little bit. This is difficult, but I think history is going to show that there are few governments that have managed to be so in a transition situation for a society that Norway is now facing, because this is no exact science. I believe that this government is pursuing a very active policy. I have repeatedly tried to ask those who believe that running active policies is that politicians should sit and pick out the winning industries. First of all, I don't think we have very good assumptions for that, but what's going to be the question is which industries to downgrade when you want to upgrade other things. Because that's a fact: if you want to prioritize something, you also have to deprioritize something. I never get an answer to that. So we're running a policy that gives all parts of the country an opportunity to evolve through the areas I mentioned. We're giving everyone a chance. I never meet a businessman who does not believe he is in the world's most important industry. The government is pursuing a forward-looking policy, and it will show that the migration challenges facing Norway have been taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2083	When the financial crisis hit Norway in 2008, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said that Norway was going through the crisis with the lowest unemployment in Europe. We did it. But now, under Erna Solberg's leadership, we're losing that position. While unemployment in Europe is falling, there are more unemployed in Norway. Under the Right and Advance Party, unemployment has grown to the highest in 20 years, and according to the government's own documents it will continue to grow in 2016 and probably rise to a level we have not seen since the 1980s. The right-wing Party government loses the fight against unemployment. Even the reports ordered by the Minister of Finance themselves criticise economic policy. The taxes on wealth do not work and the use of oil money is too high. In 2013, the Right Party and the Advance Party opted to make Norway less dependent on oil money, and Gunnar Gundersen repeated it in the previous article. Norway would have more legs to stand on. Instead, it's the opposite that happens. In real oil crowns, this government has spent more oil money in three years than the red-green government spent in eight years. From the fact that the oil money used in 2013 was 5.1 pst. of trend GDP, it represents, for 2016, 7.1 pst. No government has ever increased oil dependence in Norway – no government has covered as much of the current expenditure of oil money – as this government, under the direction of Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen. At least you should think that the money was spent on the other right went to a choice, namely a better school. They won't. In fact, further State aid for continuing training for teachers has been stepped up. From the fact that the state grant had risen to 0.5 billion. kr under the red-green government, it is now unanimously adopted in Stortinget to be about 1 billion. kr per year. That's good. But the appropriations do not involve any new money for the school sector. On the contrary, the government has cut off more in other areas of primary and secondary education than is granted further training for teachers. The basic education, which has been cut off for the students, alone pays more than the total increase in further education for teachers. If you take the cut in the number of cultural school hours, fruit and green and housing scholarships, the government's cut is over 1.4 billion. kr. So the government is taking money from the students to pay further education for teachers, and the Christian People's Party and the Left are willing to go. Even with significantly lower oil money consumption than the government, the Labour Party budget contains a solid real growth in the school effort, with a budget of 1.1 billion. kr more to primary and secondary schools than the government structure. We're going to spend 420 million. for early work, for more teachers for the youngest students and for the implementation of a read, write and calculation guarantee. We're strengthening the fight against bullying, which we're talking about neatly in the papers, by 60 million. kr. We're turning these words into action. We should have had the majority. We're going to spend 50 million dollars. kr on continuing training for non-qualified teachers. We're going to spend $30 million. for more public school trials. And we're increasing the frame of interest compensation for refurbishment of school buildings. We can put unemployed hands into business with sensible things that society needs. Vocational training is also important for the Workers' Party. We're strengthening the apprenticeship grant far beyond what the government is proposing, we want us to have a goal of having an apprenticeship grant equal to the cost of having a student in school. We also strengthen equipment in the professional field. We know that if these skilled workers are to be prepared, they must work with modern equipment. And finally, one would think that in a situation of record unemployment, it was important to let more people acquire higher education, strengthen the number of places of study strongly and give people the opportunity to qualify for tomorrow's assignments, but also here the government is failing. The Christian People's Party and the Left shall be praised for drawing the budget in the right direction. In particular, early intervention is affordable. It's a direction we support wholeheartedly. But we should have come further. When it comes to what we're going to live on in the future, children and young people's knowledge should be far higher than what the government is willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2111	Norway is in the most challenging situation in several decades. As the oil price has fallen, unemployment in Norway has increased, and large parts of Norwegian business are in a difficult transition. The government has been busy from the day one to make it possible for Norway to get more bones to stand on. That is why, in all budgets, we have invested massively in transport, knowledge, innovation and research, as well as growth-enhancing tax incentives, precisely to facilitate a necessary transition. At the same time, we need to meet the short-term challenge of good action – with labour market measures for those who are temporarily out of the labour market, but also through effective action packages to create rapid activity. The massive effort we have in maintaining the road and the track is an important element in this effort and contributes to the work of more people. The main budget effort facilitates increased productivity and continued growth in the Norwegian economy, so that new jobs can be created and well-being can be ensured, so that future generations can also grow up in a safe welfare society. A very central element in this is our historical commitment to commerce. In 2013, the transport budget was good 41 billion. SEK, in 2016 well over 60 billion. kr. A well-functioning infrastructure is essential for Norwegian companies to get their goods to the market, whether by road, sea or rail. At the same time, everyone who travels to and from work or school needs to know that they have safe and efficient roads to drive on, good walking and cycling routes or collective solutions adapted to users. It's about building good everyday regions across the country. It is therefore surprising that the Workers' Party and the Centre's opposition first understood the importance of maintaining the infrastructure we have built over many years. Every year under the red-green government, the downturn on the road and the track increased — every year. It is only under this government that we have given sufficient funds to reverse the downturn both on the road and on the track, and it is with pride that we can say that the maintenance launch is now being reduced. This means that roads are becoming safer and more affordable, and rail is becoming more punctual – both for freight and for travellers throughout the country. Large-scale road and rail projects also create important activities in the construction industry. Both the Swedish Road Administration and the Swedish Railway Agency need engineers and skilled workers and can employ some of those who have now been recruited elsewhere. In fact, this summer's Consulting Engineers Association could tell that their businesses saw for themselves to hire 1,000 new engineers within the new year. NRK Sørlanden could report earlier this year that E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand will represent 1000 jobs during the construction period, while starting a new road between Os and Bergen will mean almost as many new jobs over the next six years. I am proud of the historical effort that is now taking place on infrastructure throughout the country. That's absolutely necessary. Yes, we have increased the appropriations on the road and the path to a historically high level, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank both the Christian People's Party and the Left for a good cooperation to get this initiative in place. But at least as important is how we spend the money. This is why it has been important for us to put in place the road company Nye Veier AS, which can both challenge the established thinking, take full action and contribute to increased innovation and innovation in the industry. We take action to cut the planning time and open up other implementation strategies, such as: public-private cooperation, where appropriate, in order to speed up the implementation of the projects. We are implementing a rail reform that will facilitate a better offer to travellers and will be an important step towards getting more goods from road to rail. The green shift will make strict demands on transport policy for years to come. We are already doing well by prioritizing collective, walking and cycling, especially in the big cities. At the same time, it is important that land policy be designed to reduce transport needs. Strict requirements for low and zero emission technologies will mean reduced emissions from both cars, ferries and ships in the coming years. These are just some of the grips we're doing to modernise Norwegian infrastructure and transport policy. Finally, a massive investment on the road and the track is an important element in the long-term transformation of the Norwegian economy. Providing a top-level modern infrastructure is essential for the creation of good and profitable jobs for future generations, and for safe and environmentally friendly travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2145	A few weeks ago, a very good news came. According to the World Bank, for the first time under 10 pst. of the world's population live in extreme poverty. Aid and trade have contributed to economic development in very many poor countries. Vaccination, health care during childbirth and schooling have been an important contribution to development in very many countries. Today there are more poor people living in what we call middle-income countries than in the poorest countries in the world. Good distribution, not only between countries, but internally ashore is very important. Distribution policy should be one of our foremost exports. It is a paradox that there is a weakening of the distribution profile in this budget. Tax, especially for those who already have the most, is the main theme of our cooperation with very many countries in the world. The proposed government aid budget created strong reactions because it was the aid budget or assistance in the neighbourhoods that had to pay the most for refugee expenditure at home. The biggest were the cuts of civil society, which do a very important job in very many countries in the world. We also cut our proposal, but the cuts are far from as extensive as the government suggested. Luckily, the Left and Christian People's Party were given the advantage of reducing these cuts. What worries me is the cuts of the UN organizations. In the light of the conflicts we are now seeing, it is more important than ever that we have a strong international community that can take responsibility. Unfortunately, Norwegian cuts come to the UN while many other countries do the same. I also believe that the cuts to state-building, human rights and the construction of the rule of law in the Balkans and to the countries we call Eurasia are far too large in this budget. Cooperation with Georgia, Ukraine, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina is very important these days. The Balkan countries are under pressure because of the refugee crisis. There is hardly a worse time to reduce this cooperation. Similarly, it is precisely in the countries near Russia that we can contribute. It is about the construction of the rule of law and the fight against corruption in countries that, like us, have Russia as a neighbour. So it's also about our own security. This defence budget follows the objectives of the long-term plan. That's good, because it doesn't do the budget that applies to the current year. Nevertheless, it is clear that our competent Minister of Defence has not been put into effect in his own government. The Secretary of Defense is anxious to point back to the red-greens when she is going to explain what is not good, while she is not near to delivering the increase she thought in opposition was absolutely necessary. In her response to the challenges, she points forward – very far ahead – and it is now said that the long-term plan should be postponed because the Minister of Defence does not have the money needed. But the ability to solve the defence challenges lies neither in pointing back and blaming their predecessors nor in asking those who come long after to deliver better. It is not a matter of explaining much and creating expectations on your own guard – and not being close to delivering according to the expectations that you have created yourself. The working party says no to the double requirement for efficiency in the defence because this is money that violates the objectives of the long-term plan. In previous efficiencies, the money has gone back to the defense itself. Now we've got a new efficiency requirement on top that's going to pay for the government's tax cuts. In my opinion, the Prime Minister should listen more to the Minister of Defence and say yes to increased security – more to defence than tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2164	Norway is in bad weather. Unemployment is increasing, and according to Nav, there are now some 127 000 unemployed in Norway. In Rogaland, unemployment has almost doubled this year, and in Hordaland and More and Romesdal, unemployment is growing sharply. The government meets this with passivity. It is far from the way the previous government met the financial crisis in 2009. Then a quick action was taken that worked and that the business community could deal with. Now in the election campaign and when the budget was presented, the government was very concerned about its package of measures. It was 4 billion. kr, and one was very clever over it. But today we have heard a finance minister who does not know how big the government's package of measures is, and this is not important. I think the Minister of Finance should be too good for that and give a figure on how big this package really is. The Central Party has been trying to figure this out, since the Minister of Finance won't help us, and has come to the conclusion that it's about 2 billion. kr. Thus, a poor response package has become even weaker. In the election campaign, it is clear that such a package provides good press releases, but the business and the unemployed need concrete measures that work. The Central Party has provided a budget for economic activity across the country, a budget where we distance ourselves from business neutrality, and where we dare to tell the different industries that we believe in them. That is why we have targeted measures for space transport, for the oil industry, for agriculture and for forestry, for the self-gang industry and for the food industry. We have also put forward a proposal saying that we want to halve the toll rates for heavy-duty vehicles. For two years we have heard a complaint from the Progress Party that it is not possible to have a majority on the Stortinget, they are sitting alone. Today, the Centre Party is presenting a targeted measure to reduce costs to business, and we say that we want the State to compensate for the loss of toll companies. So this could be a historic day. It may be that day the Progress Party for the first time votes against a proposal to reduce tolls. I hope we don't see that, and that these words we've heard so many of, now they're actually being turned into action. There is little use in getting tax relief if the company does not have a profit. In a long-term country such as Norway, transport costs are important. It won't be that way that we roll the bill over to other drivers, because we say that we want the state to go in and compensate. This costs about 1.5 billion. kr. Yes, it's exactly as much as the half-billion of the municipalities that were going to go to construction measures, which were aroused in the negotiations on this year's government budget. So you should be able to join in. Another important prerequisite for developing a good business life across the country is good communication. In large parts of the country, flying is the only real option when traveling. Now, without investigation, we get a flight seat fee – or tolls in the air – of 1 billion in a completely non-comprehensive way. kr. This comes at the top of the decline one will experience due to weaker developments in the economy. The centre party has great problems seeing why there should be twice as high a charge between Brønnøysund and Oslo turn-return as it is from Oslo to Bangkok turn-return. The centre party is pleased that the government is on its way to comply with the national transport plan. After three-quarters of the period, one has now allocated about three-quarters of the total money to come in this four-year period. When a person listens to the language of the government representatives, he should have thought that one lay both 100 and 200 pst. over. But the fact is that the transport plan that a saddled down in the opposition is the one that is now in control of, and after three out of four years, a given three-quarters. There's reason to give the government credit for being on the route. The unemployed and the business community deserve a government that is not afraid of using policies to secure employment and value creation throughout the country. With that, I take up proposal No. Fifty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2194	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2197	I will begin by quoting one of our famous writers, Aasmund Olavsson Vinje, who said the following: «Knowledge shall govern the kingdom and the land, and the occupation shall bear the boat». In times when we are challenged both economically and in other ways, it is very reassuring, and quite indicative of the government, that one of the main priorities of the budget is precisely knowledge. There is also considerable emphasis on ensuring that people get a job to go to. Knowledge, research and innovation are among the main priorities, and the budget we adopt today contributes to building the country by realising the knowledge society. Knowledge provides opportunities for all regardless of background and forms the basis for social mobility in society. Knowledge is essential for strengthening Norwegian competitiveness, and the budget follows up government ambitions through a significant investment in schools, educational institutions, students and research environments. The entered into budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left further strengthens the clear knowledge profile. The budget represents a significant increase in the quality of kindergartens. The kindergarten shall be accessible to all, including those with low incomes. From the autumn of 2016, the cooperation lots extend the free core time scheme for low-income families to include three-year-olds, to mention something. Through this budget, we strengthen primary, secondary and continuing education for teachers. In the course of two years, the government has almost tripled the number of places in continuing training: over 5000 teachers will be offered further training in 2016. There will be 350 new places of study in practical and pedagogical education, in particular for areas with increasing unemployment and for applicants with a technological or real background. There will also be a strengthening of the professions through measures to recruit and enhance the skills of vocational teachers, the establishment of a recognition body for persons with foreign vocational training and the increase of apprenticeship grants. I would also like to highlight the good work of the government to strengthen students' skills and knowledge in real science. It falls on its own unreasonableness when Trond Giske on this pulpit says that the government takes money from the schoolchildren to give it to teachers. There is no government that has invested so much and in a budget settlement ready to raise knowledge and school as high as it is today. One of the things that I have perhaps been most concerned about as a politician is to strengthen investment and concentrate efforts in higher education and research. Since the government took power, we have seen a tremendous improvement in this field. For the first time, we experience the objective of achieving the investment in R & D as 1 pst. GDP. We have experienced a marked increase in investment in higher education and research in the last three years, and in this budget, despite economic challenges, the government is once again able to prioritise growth in higher education and research. The aim is to obtain research and education institutions with sound professional environments and high-quality education. This budget will increase recruitment positions, strengthen infrastructure and increase the amount of incentives for participation in the EU. There will be increased appropriations for the long-term priorities of the long-term research and higher education plan in the budgets of several departments. There is a strong growth in nutrient research under the priorities of innovative and resilient business, oceans and enabling technologies. It also strengthens the BIA programme, the FORNY programme, and strengthens the FUNN scheme. It is positive that in the context of the FORNY programme 50 million have been set. kr. to a one-year action package to contribute to increased employment and migration. For the third consecutive year, the government has proposed to increase the basic support for students in addition to the price increase. With the budgetary unity between the four parties, students are now guaranteed even better funding by introducing 11 months of student support. It's been a long time since a government has got so much praise from the students, and of course there's a compliment to all the four parties in the budget deal. I finish with a quote from Knut Aarbakke, head of the Academics. "It is very good for the government to be aggressive about research. We are faced with demanding changes both in the private and public sectors, and R & D is crucial for our success. Then it is important that we spend more of the state budget on investment and less on consumption."
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2228	I believe in a society with few inequalities and great opportunities, where dreams and ambitions are not limited by social or economic means, where the only limitation is what one wants to achieve, and how hard one works for it, where we politicians through our priorities contribute to creating security in human life, so that it is predictability and security, so that one dares to bet even when it is in reverse. Right now a lot happens in a short time. Oil price falls, unemployment rises. It creates challenges for the labour market, which is under strong pressure and loses valuable labour and skills. It creates challenges for people who get laid off or let off. It makes us face major challenges that require a lot of us. It involves action, priorities and predictability. The budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, shows the very opposite. It doesn't respond to how we're going to use the community's resources to meet the challenges we're facing next year and in the years that are coming. The budget agreement adds to a record high use of oil money. It is not sustainable and shows an inability to prioritise in a demanding time. There are future generations that will be left with the bill when we have a finance minister who has spent 508 billion. kr of the oil money since she took over. It's more than the eight-year red-green increase, despite the financial crisis. Government policy is more about redistributing from them with little to them with much, taking away from future generations and giving to those who have a lot today. At a time of increasing unemployment, work on all is a key priority in the Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party. We're proposing to spend closer to 3 billion. Through these means, we want to create new jobs and keep those we have. For example: prioritisation of a more flexible regulatory framework for permissive behaviour, we want to contribute to maintaining skills and working conditions. We allocate funds to 2,000 more places of action to help people outside the labour market to improve their opportunities in the labour market. In addition to maintaining and creating new jobs, it is important to facilitate migration and ensure a good transition from education to work. Young people are particularly affected by economic downturns, including: because of lower seniority. Several young people are applying for higher education in the welfare country's professions. It's positive, but until the autumn, several thousand will be left without a place of study. To remedy this situation, we prioritise 3,000 new places of study in our alternative budget. These are just a few examples, but they show a clear direction and ambition for what the Workers' Party wants. When you compare the government's draft budget and compare it with the Christian People's Party and the Left, you see that work and employment have been downgraded. Much of what was prioritised in the draft budget has been cut off in the conciliation, and the result is a settlement that has no clear profile or clear priorities. There are too few measures to ensure jobs and competences. Green conversion and green jobs are downgraded. What's happening is a picture of a government that doesn't have the ability to rule in a demanding period, which makes it too little too late. A green transition is about being more environmentally conscious. It's easier to downgrade green choices in economic downtime. We can't afford that. Then we push the challenges in front of us and deny ourselves the responsibility we have. We're getting more, and more people are moving to the big cities, and the municipalities around the big cities are becoming more populous. Then there must also be good collective solutions in and around the big cities that take this into account. Here the state has to get on the track and play with the big cities and take a special responsibility. The aim of the Workers' Party is to take the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas by public transport, by bicycle and by-pass. Through our alternative state budget, we're going to give 10 billion. DKK over 10 years for climate and collective action. It is a national lift for public transport in Oslo and other major cities, which will help more people leave the car and choose ways to travel that are healthy for health and the environment. If the Norwegian society is to continue to be a society of small economic differences, we must have the ability to prioritise what works in an economically demanding time. The essential thing for the Workers' Party is to ensure people's security by strengthening the labour market, giving priority to growth throughout the country and making it easier to make green choices. We show a clear direction and have proposals for solutions to the challenges. It will provide predictability and security, so that people dare to bet, even in counter-ground. What we don't have time for is a government that shows passivity, and a cooperation project where for the different parties it's more about me, mine and mine than prioritizing together for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2251	Let me first say that this year's aid budget is historically high. Following the budget agreement in Stortinget, the 2016 aid budget is 37,4 billion. kr. This is 1,1 pst. of the total income of Norway, GNI. I would like to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for a good deal. Europe is now experiencing the greatest refugee crisis since the Second World War. Hundreds of thousands of people flee to escape war and terror, and preliminary estimates say that at least 33 000 refugees and asylum seekers will seek protection in Norway in 2016 — about the same number as there are residents in, for example, Norway. Gjøvik or Haugesund city. Norway's population is becoming increasingly aware that this presents great challenges to our society. The Norwegian population would like to assist and help. The Nordics have a long tradition of providing humanitarian relief and long-term assistance. Norway should be a country where people who are persecuted, subjected to war, or who are at risk of their origin, can seek refuge and protection. Therefore, we must also state clearly that we do not accept abuse of this scheme. We have increased humanitarian aid to a record level. $1.25 a.m. kr goes to Syria and neighbouring countries this year. This is proposed to increase to 1.5 billion. kr in 2016. Norway is among the largest donors to Syria and its neighbourhoods. The Prime Minister has also taken the initiative of a donor country conference for Syria to be held in London in February next year. The draft allocation for ODA-approved refugee measures in Norway is now 19.6 p.m. of the 2016 assistance framework. Denmark has recently decided to use one third of the aid budget in this way, while Sweden may have to use about 50 pst. But if we ignore the costs of refugees in Norway, it's going to spend 30 billion dollars. kr on assistance in 2016. Therefore, total assistance for 2016 places Norway at the top of the world, both in terms of GNI and not least in terms of percentage per capita. Per capita, Norway is clearly number one, followed by Sweden and Luxembourg. The UN aid target is known to be 0.7 pst, and we have 1.1 pst. With the historically high aid budget, we are strengthening efforts to prevent new crises and help in the neighbourhood. We continue the drive to education for children and young people. 58 million children and 63 million young people still do not go to school. Many of them live in a country affected by crisis and conflict. There has been a dramatic increase in support for education in poor countries every year since the government change in 2013. Education for all is not just a human right; it is a condition for growth and development. That's why I'm so sad that the Workers' Party is subtracting 100 million. kr for training in the aid budget. The government also continues to strengthen its commitment to global health. It's going to cancel over 3 billion. SEK to, among others improved maternal and paediatric health and the control of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. We fight child mortality and for the vaccination of the world's children, among others. through GAVI. Trade and industrial development in developing countries are central to ensuring good conditions for investment and job creation in the poorest countries. Measures to combat corruption, which establish a good investment climate and which ensure tax revenue for common welfare, contribute to creating a lasting path out of poverty. Through increased appropriations for projects under the direction of Norfund, the targeted investment in renewable energy projects is increasing, thereby contributing to a sustainable basis for future growth and development. Assistance aimed at specific areas such as education, health and business development ensures targeted development and lays the foundation for a modern and forward-looking aid policy. Through access to good educational institutions, health services and jobs, people can work long-term out of poverty. It is worth noting that the importance of aid is decreasing globally. In 1990, aid amounted to 63 p.m. of all capital flows to low income countries and lower intermediate income countries. In 2013, this share was reduced from 63 pst. until 21 pst. This is a dramatic reduction. However, the importance of humanitarian aid in disaster areas is increasing. According to the OECD Development Committee, it is estimated that 50 pst. of the world's poor will live in conflict areas by 2020 and about 90 pst. in 2030. That means we have a lot to do in conflict countries. The refugee crisis has required us to make some changes in the framework of the large aid budget. It is, however, indisputably the largest aid budget in Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2281	In the Workers' Party we want to build the country and have good communications and transport opportunities everywhere. Roads, railways, ports and airports help to bind the country together and are essential for business and employment and for settlement throughout the country. In government, the Workers' Party started the journeylift of time. Since 2005, there has been a systematic increase in investment, operation and maintenance funds in the national transport plans submitted and they have been followed up by annual budgetary appropriations. I am pleased that the sitting government too has the ambition to follow up the ambitious national transport plan that the Stoltenberg II government presented in the spring of 2013. That promise that we made when we were in government, we also continue in opposition. In our alternative budget, we are prioritizing 463 million. It is more important to transport and communication than the government does in its proposal, and we give a different priority than the government. Increased promotion, better safety and environmental considerations form the basis for the Workers' Party's transport policy. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and the transport sector accounts for about 30 pst. of the total Norwegian emissions. Measures within the sector are therefore central to reducing emissions. Technology development, public transport and the development of environmentally friendly means of transport are therefore key actions under which the Workers' Party wishes to support. The working party will give 10 billion dollars. kr for climate and collective action in major cities over 10 years. For 2016, this means an allocation of 700 million. kr more than the government proposes. Of these 700 million. SEK shall not exceed 100 M. go to bicycle measures. The Workers' Party believes that the State must take special responsibility for the development and operation of urban and bus lines with their own tracks. It is essential for good transport solutions in major cities and implies that, after negotiations with municipalities, the state must take on up to 70 pst. the investment costs of the necessary collective investment in the major cities. Important projects such as the Bergen Urban Railway, the Stavanger Bus Road Project, the Oslo Inner City T-Bahn Tunnel and the Trondheim Superbus Project are to be carried out. The Stoltenberg II Government started a change of pace in the appropriations for the railway. The objective of the national transport plan is an environmentally sound and good transport solution for both persons and goods. Important grips such as increased maintenance and investment in new trains have given NSB growth in passenger numbers and increased punctuality for trains. The result is more satisfied passengers. The working party considers it appropriate to continue a high level of appropriations both for investment and for the maintenance of the railway in order to meet the punctuality and predictability requirements of freight and passenger transport. The most important thing for the railway is to build more modern railways, get more departures for the travellers and buy more trains. We think that's more important than moving around the boxes in the organization map. Access to basic infrastructure has been essential in order to maintain residence and realise opportunities throughout the country. The Labour Party believes that modern broadband connectivity is a basic infrastructure that everyone should have and that this is an important contribution to growth and employment across the country. We will therefore continue to develop in areas where there is no commercial basis for this today. Just as when we rolled out the copper network for the phone, this is an opportunity that everyone should get, regardless of where they live. It's not the market that can fix it. It shows the search for the mechanisms that are, where the search is much higher than the available funds made available by the government and their budget partners. It looks as if the government believes that people who are not commercially interesting to the telecommunications companies are still going to be careful with copper networks and landline telephones in the future. For the Labour Party, we disagree. That's why we're going to grant three times as much as the government to ensure all the possibility of a digital everyday life in the future. When the government presented its budget in October, it placed great emphasis on spending money on employment, because there was a sharp increase in unemployment in the West. In the Department of Transport, about a quarter of the total package had been put into place. Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bn, Bnt, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, I take note that this has been decided to negotiate away through the budget agreement. Half of this money is gone, despite the introduction of a new charge on air transport of over 1 billion. kr and has a historically high use of oil money. In summary, it is the people and businesses in North Norway and the unemployed in the West who have to pay for what the budgetary partners think is good enough1. And it happens in the country that the Minister of Finance used to refer to as the world's richest country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2304	The government's draft budget responds to the challenges of the Norwegian economy, said Finance Minister Siv Jensen earlier today. I think it is definitely the wrong word use. We have a record high unemployment, we have a challenging climate situation, and we have a refugee situation that is also very demanding. The budget does not respond to the major challenges. We have a record high leave. The situation is out of control, and the government, in my opinion, shows a lack of ability to prioritise and to govern. As late as Tuesday, we discussed the possibilities of accelerating some tendering procedures to obtain zero-emission solutions for some ferry routes. We got in touch with the technology track, but not with the economic motivation that was needed to create activity now. And that's because now activity is required. There is now a danger that we will lose valuable skills. We recognise that the global market picture has changed rapidly and strongly for the whole petroleum-related sector in the last year. But it doesn't help much not to do anything, as the government chooses. In the case of climate, the country is heading in the wrong direction. We don't have any green rhythm shifts, even though the government parties and the settlement partners are trying to make it look like it is. In today's debate, we hear a left-wing leader trying to explain why it makes sense to make renewable energy more expensive and gasoline and diesel cheaper. At least there is no green shift. Then we also hear in today's debate the representative Astrup try to present it as if this government has created some opportunities, pointing to the power-generating industry, pointing to green data storage and not least that the government has started a transition in the transport sector. Although it is said from this pulpit, it is not true. It is not the case that the transition in the transport sector started with this government. On the contrary – it started already in 2006, under the red-green government. And every year during our reign, we passed on the car charges in a more climate-friendly direction. We even suggested that this conversion should also include heavier vehicles, but then we heard the government parties showering and saying that it was unwise. With regard to the railway operation, which is being brought forward several times in the debate, it was of course the red-green government that started the large-scale development of the railways in Norway. During our reign, we had an increase of 405 pst. in the operation on the railway. It was we who established the world's best technology support system – under Enova – for the industry, as Nicolai Astrup mentioned earlier today, it was not the current government that did it. When the representative Astrup in the debate also draws on the possibility in the power-generating industry, it is necessary to start wondering why, after a few days in the government offices, they proposed to introduce a floor into the CO2 compensation scheme — the scheme that has actually stimulated new opportunities for power-generating industries in Norway. And when it comes to talking about investing in green data storage, you have to wonder why the government parties around the world were not involved in it already last year, when there were suggestions on the table in Stortinget. No, it's a little difficult to understand and understand the debate that this room today is marked by when we hear the government parties, especially when it comes to the presentation of reality. We often hear the word 'conversion' being used, but conversion to what? It's a word that's used without it being defined or having any kind of content. What are we going to do in the future? Yes, a number of things. We propose a stronger investment in the climate fund under Enova – or the world’s best technology fund, as was mentioned earlier today. But what do the government parties say? They say no. We are proposing a stronger environmental technology system. But what do the government parties say? They say no. What do the two schemes do together? Well, it's actively contributing to business to both green and new opportunities. We propose a larger state contribution to the development of public transport in major cities. What does the government say? Yes, they say no - in theme by theme. We could have taken that up and confirmed that proposals that are included in this room, the government says virtually no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2328	A central pillar of the Norwegian model and one of the reasons for our prosperity, our high degree of employment, that we are societies characterized by small differences and a great deal of equivalency, is that we have pursued offensive equality policies. It has led Norway to occupy the top of the world’s most equivocal countries. It didn't come of itself. We became the country of equality because we realized that not only is it the right thing to do in a civilised society, but it pays off. And we went to work systematically. Governments of the Workers' Party built structures to ensure equal opportunities for women and men. We realized that in order for everyone to have the opportunity to remain equal, to experience the same opportunities in the meeting with the labour or education system or parental care, it is sometimes necessary to discriminate against fundamental disadvantages. Gender quota and Dad's quota are examples of that. It's worked. Equality is a political responsibility, as is the national or pension system or child protection. It is not a personal responsibility you provide in negotiations around the kitchen table or at the manager's desk and have to thank yourself if you come to a brief conclusion. This is why the Labour Party has also pursued an offensive gender equality policy, where the right-hand side has consistently opposed, but has sometimes come back and accepted some measures — but backwards and reluctantly. For two years we waited for the blue-blue government to present its entire equality policy to the discussion for Stortinget. When that message first came, it contained no equality policy. It was a message with a good copy of good analyses from the red-green equality message, which the government drew, a message full of descriptions of challenges, but – all the more oddly – totally bare of actions that will do something to solve these challenges and take us further. So the government has made it clear to the masterpiece to provide an equality message that will not lead to more equality. The government's real equality policy is easy to see outside the message. It shall be entered every day in this Chamber and shall also appear in that budget. The policy re-establishes equality — cutbacks in paperpaper, increased cash support, cutbacks in kindergartens, more expensive prices, cutbacks in measures against part-time work, new work environment laws, which hit women’s prisons the hardest. So in the budget we are adopting here today, we presented the same week as the gender equality report, which points out that there is a lot to be done, so you allow yourself to cut off the gender equality device that we have and that needs a strengthening. The equality ombudsman, the equality centres, the LHBT allocation and the equality pot are cut. Part-time millions are gone this year as well. Equality does not come of itself. When those who spend every day living in municipalities, schools, workplaces, those who work for increased equality in practice, who every day advise people on their rights, employers on their duties, who train teachers and kindergarten workers, who are watchful of corruption and government, get less room for action, it becomes less activity and less – no more – equality in practice. However, this is in line with the government's gender equality policy – lack of vision, lack of action and cut back on what works. The result is equality in reverse. We in the Workers' Party want to move on. We are also showing it in this budget. We double the appropriations for those who make equality, we increase the dad rate, and we show that we want to go on in our whole policy every single day in this room. Equality is a completely natural guide for the Workers' Party, and it does not come about by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2349	The UN has repeatedly taken us to the best country in the world. So has the Legatum Prosperity Index. They give us the seventh place in the list of countries that are good at entrepreneurship. The World Bank ranks Norway in the sixth place of 189 countries where it is easy to be a businessman. Save Barna thinks I'm the best motherland in the world. So we have to be able to establish that Norway is a pretty good country to live in, and that we are also a very good country to run business in. The last is too many significantly more surprising than the first. The situation in the labour market is very challenging. The fact that we now have 120,000 unemployed in Norway is serious. I know more – and they probably do in the hall as well – who are now attending Christmas meetings on leave or without work. It's tough for the families that it owes, and we have to take that most seriously. As Marianne Marthinsen said, we must fight with beaks and claws against the unemployment biting. Many who live in my county, Telemark, and in the districts around the country, are dependent on commuting to work. In a situation where there may be an increase in commuting, it is disappointing to me that the right-wing representative Fletten in the debate before today says that commuting to and from work is a private matter. He about it -- the employee's party thinks it's wrong to tighten up the taxes on commuters and especially that it's special to do it now. I believe from both the Right and the Advance Party that the Labour Party is only betting on actions. That is not correct. But yes, we are investing in several action areas, study places and better law-making, and we are fending for the Norwegian model – a model that our finance minister has said has stood in the way of the Norwegian people – on tripartite cooperation, extensive welfare arrangements and the public sector. The road to the Norwegian model has gone through the fact that dishes previously reserved for the privileged are now available for more. That's the basis for growth. Here we have an ideological abyss between us and the government. The trust, security and tripartite cooperation on which the Norwegian model is based is an important asset for value creation. It provides a work life that is not only adaptive, but also adaptive. It has become popular among Norwegian politicians to talk about entrepreneurial activity and exciting new ideas, especially in these times. It also does the Worker's Party. In our alternative budget, we have an accelerator program for entrepreneurs, so-called early stage capital. But it takes time for ideas to come true. It takes time before a company of two becomes ten, or to a hundred, or to a thousand. It takes time to make outlays. Therefore, we have to listen to experienced industrialists, investors, who tell us that in nine out of ten cases it is more profitable to turn existing, pregnant companies with old tasks into profitable, large companies with new tasks. In this way, we will be able to create and save more jobs. Because in existing companies, there is competence, there is experience, and there is a willingness to survive. Sometimes you might need to replace the entire lead to get it done, and sometimes you need a technical and research help to reverse the output from, for example. traditional offshore installations for modern onshore installations. Yes, it is often easier to keep a hundred jobs by changing the business than to create ten jobs in a whole new business. One should notice the slogan, or the headlines, that the Labour Party has had in difficult times. At the election in 1933, when the country was in deep crisis, the Workers' Party's slogan was «All the people at work». After the war, when all the political parties met in a assembly government under the leadership of Einar Gerhardsen, the title was «Work for All». That slogan was repeated in 1981 – «Work for All». And the headline of our alternative budget today is: «Work for everyone is job number 1». This shows that throughout history, the Labour Party has raised work and employment as the most important thing in the policy of difficult times. For work is the most important thing. The two main challenges today are unemployment and integration. Both parts must be solved by work. That's the recipe of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2367	Norway is facing major challenges. The oil price has halved more than half since last autumn. The availability is increasing. We need to deal with a record influx of refugees and migrants. The security policy situation in Europe has changed considerably since the spring of last year. We see attacks and threats from groups that will split, spread hatred and fear rather than progress. The international landscape is constantly changing — economically, safely and in terms of the migration challenge. All of this has consequences for us in Norway. The backbone of the next year’s budget has been demanding because the uncertainties have been numerous. I am pleased today that we now have an agreement on a budget – a budget that I believe will make us well equipped for the challenges next year. I am also pleased that the Stortinget has reached an agreement on how to deal with the asylum situation and the necessary sanctions are being taken, and the government promises to come back quickly in many of these areas. It is a good Norwegian political tradition that we gather on broad and constructive solutions in difficult times, which I feel confident that will also be the case in the years to come. There will always be room for political debate and disagreement in the areas of which we have traditionally disagreed, but I would like to say that I think it is good that in important areas that challenge us and are difficult for our entire society – as the great influx of refugees – a majority on the Grand Duchy has shown that one can find a way forward. The budget adopted today by the Stortinget is a good response to the challenges facing Norway in the future. It provides a basis for work and activity next year, but also a good basis for the long-term transition that Norway needs to undergo. It continues to work on improving health services and increases the provision of treatment. It strengthens the education system. It gives more help to many of our most vulnerable. It reinforces the work we are doing for the green shift, so that we can also achieve our climate targets. Losing the job, or standing out from work, is painful for it. It's not building for society either. For work, the basis for our welfare society – yes, it is people’s efforts and competences that are the basis for the well-being we have today. The workplace is also the place where each individual has the most opportunities and ideas, and it is a social anchor in everyday life. Therefore, the government takes seriously the uncertainty of many individuals and families at a time of increasing unemployment. We don't have any relationships. We can't afford the oil price. The situation in the petroleum industry has led to thinner order books, declining investments and consequences for many of the companies and those working in the industry. Companies have had to cut costs, both in the form of a smaller staff and new ways of working. Many suggest that this development is not necessarily over. We will be in a transition in the oil and gas industries in the years to come. The oil is going to be important for the Norwegian economy for many years, but we have to realize that it is no longer going to be as strong an engine in growth as it has been in the last decades. The petroleum sector has also driven demand in mainland Norway. It has provided jobs with high levels of pay and tax and has created world-leading clusters of innovative enterprises and research environments. It has not least been a major contributor to our living today in one of the world's best welfare societies. So when we experience the change that's happening, we have to adapt and transform. This is why the government has promoted a budget with a main focus on work, activity and long-term change. It contributes to growth in employment and to countering unemployment from lower activity in the oil industry. What we have to do in the long-term transformation is to create the new jobs to fund the welfare of our children and our old age. Finding jobs that provide equal pay — and thus equal tax revenues — to the oil industry or the supplier industry will be a key challenge in the future. There are many ideas about new subsidy schemes to create jobs, but now we don't need jobs that need subsidies. We need jobs that provide tax revenue for the welfare of the future. We cannot be the cheapest and should not have it as a motive here in Norway. We have to do even more to get smarter and to compete among the smartest in the world. The jobs we need in the future must be based on knowledge and technology at the top of the world. In particular, it is important to promote jobs in the private, competitive, tax-free sector, in order to finance the welfare of the future. In the autumn, due to the asylum situation, the additional number has also received considerable attention. To find $9.5 billion. kr without having a bearing on other budget lines is not possible and the level of ambition in any other area has had to be reduced. It is not desirable, but absolutely necessary in today's situation. Nevertheless, I believe that we were able to keep the main direction, both in our government budget and in the agreement that was made on the Stortinget. We give priority to work, activity and change. One of the key instruments for short-term employment is the action package for increased employment. It is clearly targeted at the most affected occupational groups and at the South-West where unemployment has increased most. The action package will help to dampen unemployment growth while the long-term transition to create new jobs is ongoing. We have chosen measures that can have a rapid impact and that can also easily be stepped down again later – because it is important not to raise public expenditure permanently. At the same time, it is essential not to lose sight of the long-term shift. That is why we have also given strong priority to research and innovation. The budgetary authority is strengthening its efforts in the field of knowledge by around 450 million. kr. Innovation, industrial research and seed funds are strengthened by about 250 million. kr. In addition, the budget contributes to growth-enhancing tax relief. At the same time, we have maintained a great commitment to transport. Building infrastructure to continue to reduce the maintenance system that we have, it strengthens the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy, it improves the logistics of business, it secures the journey for families, and it creates more activity and jobs — also in the short term. Therefore, it is important to do more about those things that contribute to activity in the short term and in the long term help to speed up the transition to new jobs. At the same time, we have challenges outside of us. In Paris, the climate summit is underway. The hope of an obligating agreement is still alive. In our budget, we're strengthening the green shift, as we've done since we got into the government offices. The railway effort is increasing sharply following the budgetary conciliation. The same applies to pedestrian and cycle routes. Municipalities that cut emissions will get even more for it. The reward scheme for public transport is increasing strongly and monthly and annual tickets for train journeys are becoming cheaper. We make it easier to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life. But it's important not only to see the challenges that we have, but also the points of light. We have a challenging situation in the oil industry, but other industries in Norway are also doing well. Let me take some time to talk about one of them, the seafood industry. We export 37 million seafood meals daily to about 140 countries around the world. We are at an export record in 2015. Only in October we exported seafood for $8 billion. kr — more than ever. The government's work on the bioeconomy strategy, increased investment in marine research, regulatory simplification and the opening up of new farming technologies will help raise the industry in the coming years. The potential for increased exports of seafood is high. Similarly, the potential for increased exports of skills and technology is high. This has at least two dimensions. We are strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian companies, and we are contributing with technology that can increase global food production. It must largely come from the sea. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, we need to increase food production by 60 pst. by 2050. So today is less than 2 pst. by food globally from the sea. To satisfy the 9.7 billion people that we will be in 2050, the sea will have to make a decisive contribution. We have knowledge of harvesting and growing the seas sustainably in Norway. There is a significant potential here for our country. So Norway has more legs to stand on, but we need even more power to do it. Norway is not in crisis. After all, in several regions, unemployment has been declining in the last year, including in northern Norway. The draft budget was well received in the trade unions when it was presented. In fact, a number of economists believe – as opposed to parts of the debate I have heard today – that the use of oil money in 2016 is correct because of the cyclical situation we are in. Professor Steinar Ström writes in the Official Journal of Bergen on 9 October that the budget has «soul» – I have not heard it before – and that the increased use of oil money is necessary as a result of the weaker economic growth and increasing unemployment. More experts Today's Business spoke to when the budget was presented, a similar judgment was passed. Monetary and financial policies are designed to stimulate the Norwegian economy in a low economic cycle. A greater budgetary impulse than normal is desirable because we have had a deterioration in the Norwegian economy. According to the OECD, both interest and budgetary policies are well adapted to the current situation in the Norwegian economy. So that's the judgment when we showed up, and that's the same budget impulse that we've still kept. It is therefore well adapted to economic developments. High employment and low unemployment are important objectives for us, but we also need to take care of some of our social objectives. We're going to take care of those who lose their jobs, those who struggle to get into the labour market, those who have holes in the CV, and those who don't feel there's room for them in society. We also know that there are many children who grow up without the safe surroundings and the opportunities children most enjoy. In healthcare, we have cut waiting times for help and introduced free treatment options, but there are still too many who wait unnecessarily long. Security of assistance and care when needed is a pillar of our welfare society. It is the responsibility of the public to ensure good health and care services to all when the need arises. This government continues to give priority to those groups that have not previously experienced being met by the welfare community as they should have been. The effort in the field of drugs and mental health is to be continued, which is also clearly reflected in the escalation plan in the drug field that has been presented a few weeks ago. The system of free core time in kindergartens is now being extended to three-year-olds. Health stations and school health services are being strengthened. Municipal Child Protection shall be given a lift. The investigation of violence and child abuse is strengthened. We're increasing pensions, both to minimum pensioners and to married pensioners, and we're closing holes in the social security network when we're betting so strongly on better care in the future. Public can do a lot, but it can't do everything. That's why we're also continuing to work on volunteering for the future. I am pleased that we have received a budget, but I am most pleased that we have got a very good budget – a budget that helps to stimulate the strengths of the Norwegian economy, and that helps us step up our efforts on infrastructure, research, education and innovation. In fact, I am not in doubt: although there are major challenges ahead of us, Norway also has the best conditions for success.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2410	Thank you for an article filled with soul – I think it was a nice description. A budget has implications for many people and can be given that description. The Prime Minister referred to the package of measures. That was something we had to debate in the election campaign, and we got a budget early in October that had a package of measures very precisely described. It was debated, but it had a size of about 4 billion. kr. Today, questions have been asked about what is left of that package of measures, and how large it is, because a large number of items have been raised in the budget as effective short-term measures, as the Prime Minister says. The Minister of Finance has said that a budget has many more implications for activity than a package of measures. Everyone agrees that, of course, this use of money has an impact on the whole, but it was now the package of measures that was an important profile of the government. So my question is really quite simple to the Prime Minister: what is this package of measures now, which is going to work in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2417	The package of measures is about 4 billion. kr. We haven't counted on every ear, but it's about the same level. There have been some re-priorities, for example: repriorities have been made from road maintenance to railway maintenance. However, there is maintenance, and there are employment-intensive activities, and it is not so dangerous if we choose to build a railway rather than build a road – it still gives activity next year. Then there are activity incentives in many of the things in the supplementary number, in terms of the great activity and job creation that happen around, for example. asylum reception today, which will contribute to more short-term jobs in the future for many who are facing challenges today. I see that many of the reception organizers and operators say that they get many very qualified and good applicants to do those jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2424	Another theme, Paris, and the follow-up to the climate: I could be interested to hear the Prime Minister emanating around the EU’s intention agreement – before Paris – that Norway should be in a European context to cut 40pst. by 2030. Is it now that that agreement is not due to come, and what does it mean for Norway in this European promise – 40 pst. Cut by 2030? And the next question is, when Paris hopefully ends up with such ambition, the Prime Minister sees some initiative to set goals on how to reach 40 pst. by 2030 in the ETS sector? This is perhaps the simplest method, because they are bound by fewer and more expensive quotas, but not least in all the other areas currently covered. Is it the Prime Minister's position that there is reading this budget that is the marshy soil, or will there be a need for new measures and initiatives to get it started? 15 years is short.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2431	We are committed to reaching a good agreement in Paris, but also to reaching a good implementation agreement with the EU. It is true that we originally hoped that we would have an agreement of intent, but the EU has chosen to take a decision in the EU Council to invite Norway and Iceland into the implementation of the 40 p.m. target, and it is consistent with any commitment agreement. When the EU actually takes its own decision on this and makes an invitation, we believe it is adequate. So we will then have to negotiate on the implementation in the non-quota sector. It is the ETS that regulates the other area. Do we want to take many new initiatives in the quota sector? Yes, we will. We will take many initiatives, just as we have done, including: is the area of the main areas of stimulation by research, development and various pilots in order to achieve the necessary transformation of technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2440	It's not just Steinar Stream that's happy, it's also Christian People's Party. And I want to start by giving a thank-you to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the agreement we have made. Our clear main commitment in this budget would have been to correct some of the assistance to those who need it the most – the poor and those who are the victims of conflicts. Today, we are making decisions on the long-term assistance for 2016, but we also did so last year – we decided on the long-term assistance. So we're going to get to the age now, where we see that there's a cut of 1.1 billion. It is precisely in the long-term assistance, and we know that there is a deliberate policy to do so through substantiating agencies. So my question is, is the decision we are making today on long-term assistance, is it the goal of the government that it should stand throughout 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2447	Firstly, I have to say that it is more important to me that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties on the Stortinget are satisfied with the budget than that Steinar Stroem is, but I think it was a fine quote – that it is a budget with soul. I think it's the first time I've heard an economist use that kind of concept of budgets. As regards assistance, I agree that it is important to have long-term assistance. It is also important to have humanitarian assistance. Half of the poorest people in the world live in conflict areas today. It is not possible to meet the poverty challenge in the world without doing anything about the conflict areas and the efforts there. And some of the re-priorities in the next year's budget have been about getting more room for humanitarian aid, because there are more conflicts in the world. What we've done in aging – and I'm sure we'll have another round to talk about – is do what the government has done before. It is important to remember that the aid budget has increased by 800 million. kr after the budgetary conciliation last autumn – through the proceedings we have had, and what is happening in connection with the ageing process now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2456	Unemployment is on the rise, and we are dependent on a targeted and consistent policy. In the election campaign, Erna Solberg was out and boasted of 4 billion. kr in the action package. Now that she's increased further, she's down to 2 billion. kr. Last year, there was a capital injection into State Power of 10 billion. kr, a very important measure to create new industry, creating new renewable energy. In this budget, it becomes obsolete, so that Government does not have the same opportunity to develop new industry and new renewable energy. Last year, it was about subsidising foreign flights with large tax-free allowances. This year, taxing domestic aviation is much more than foreign aviation. The Minister of Labour says that workers have to be willing to go further to work, while the government's response is greater taxes for those who travel longer, through lower commuting deductions. And that's the problem with the budgetary work we've seen last autumn, that what was an important measure a short time ago, now suddenly is no longer an important measure. Does the Prime Minister think it is good that Statkraft should be drained for so much capital, and does she think it is good that we now have a package of measures that has been halved in the last few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2467	I disagree that the package of measures is halved. Moving money from one area that contributes to activity to another area that contributes to activity has nothing to say about the activity and the action package. So that's actually what I disagree with, and it doesn't help to repeat it many times. That's about 4 billion. And then you use it. That's probably how we're going to contribute overall to more activity next year through the changes that have been made, both in the Storting, but also in the additional proposition that we put forward. It's probably not every single measure, or every single road bill, that's most important, but it's that jobs are actually created, and we're getting something useful done for that money. If we then build a railway instead of a road, I don't think it's crucial to that. Then it is important for us that we have predictability, but it is also important that we create better framework conditions. Some of the changes in the tax regime are made, inter alia: in order to finance the big change in the tax system, which we are in, and if the attitude is that we can't change anything, I wonder how much the tax relief scheme of the Centre Party is going to be when we finally adopt better framework conditions for Norwegian businesses and for jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2476	Some in this room are concerned with Paris-related objectives. Some of us are also concerned with the means to achieve what the objectives are. Then some courageous choices must be made. The debate here today has been a great deal about hoarseness over the kind of courageous elections. The red-green government had 281 million. kr on average over eight years in the green tax change. Now we have an average of 3,170 million. kr. The left still thinks it's too small, but it's about creating the markets that are going to make the green solutions profitable. Then we have to use the tax system to make it profitable to make green choices. So my question to the Prime Minister is, is she satisfied that we've increased from 280 to 3,170, or does she still think that we're going to go further if we're going to be able to achieve the climate goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2486	Right went to the election of a major election program that said we were going to shift taxes and taxes more green and reduce red taxes, i.e. the tax on labour, the tax on capital, the tax that stimulates more work and creating more jobs. It's still important. It's actually become more important in recent years that we do even more in this area, just to see a future Norway with solid jobs that can contribute to income. That is why I believe that we should turn more forward, also because the polluter pays should be a principle that we implement more. But then we have to make sure that we do it in doses, which makes us not just kill things, but that we actually get a behavioral change and get new technology. I'm sure we'll have a little different opinions than the Left about how fast and how fast you're going to do that kind of conversion. Among other things, what I am happy about is that we have been able to do so. a greater predictability of the direction in several areas. I think, among other things, The discussions we have had about the conversion of the one-off charge on the car have been important, because then people know in which direction it is going, and then it will take a few years before we are in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2493	It has been so exciting to hear not only Right-wing people, but also Frp-people all day talking about how good it is for employment that many asylum seekers have come in the last year. It's a new tone from some parts of the civil side, to say it like that. However, I have problems seeing how all the funds cut out in the action package have been redispatched to other policies that create jobs. If you ignore the cuts on the road, as the Prime Minister says is being redispatched to the railways, there is still a number of cuts, the largest of which is the South-West employment and maintenance package. First of all, I wonder: can the Prime Minister confirm that the package of measures is still 4 billion. kr.? I think it's strange to have to ask about this many times. The other thing I'm asking is, if it's like re-disposals, what are the 500 million that were supposed to go into employment measures in municipalities, now going to create jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2500	200 of the millions were cut off in the additional proposition that the government put forward. The effect of using 9.2 billion. kr. Of course, entering the Norwegian economy on asylum measures contributes to more jobs than 200 million. kr. for maintenance. And we also see that it does. I've been and seen it with my own eyes, greeting people who have come into a new job after being unemployed for a long time, for example in Kirkenes. So this also works for unemployment. If you ask me if I would rather spend the money on something else – yes, I would. I'd rather spend the money on things that had given a lasting direction to the conversion, that is, some maintenance and rehabilitation, but we can't put all the expenses on top of each other, we have to do some priorities. And with the budget we have now, and the reconciliation we have, we're actually contributing to more work and activity than what we originally said, because we need to spend more money on asylum. But if I had chosen, I would have used it for things that gave us lasting and more change and new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2507	So we're going back to the list of speakers. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2512	People can just stay seated! [[Laughter]] We are facing a tough challenge, and I think the Prime Minister described it well in his speech, that many should feel the pain it is to stand outside. An unemployment rate that reaches the heights that we see now, and the forecasts for the years that are coming, suggests that many will have to know about that pain. It's actually a level we're about to reach, which we need many years back to figure out. In this way, I miss the steps to be taken, especially – and the Prime Minister was also involved in his speech today – how to achieve growth in industries in which growth has not been seen in the past years. The bioeconomy – soil, plant, forest investment – is in many ways a type of industry that gives us a win-win situation, both in view of our use of the renewable but also climate-friendly. And it also has great and good impact on employment and housing. It was Gunnar Gundersen's representative who was up here instead and pointed out that when it was necessary to give priority to this type of industry, something else has to be re-prioritized, and they tried to present it as if those who want to give priority, for example. bioeconomy, must deprioritize something else. That's what you do, and that's what the Workers' Party is doing in its option. When you choose a fairly large investment in the bioeconomy – over 100 million. kr in our alternative budget – a re-prioritisation is being made. We don't see the growth capacity of the tax relief that the government has received over the last few years, as the government parties do, and that's where the priority lies. We want to spend that money a different way. We know the total: oil money usage is lower with the Labour Party option. It's a big priority to be able to bet here, and it's surprising that, over the last few years, you've just cut off very important investments in the bioeconomy – everything from the energy fission programme to now, last year, cutting raw material-based programmes in Innovation Norway, the three-based innovation programme. I would therefore also like to point out the effort now being made by the Workers' Party to follow up on the position of the Inland Committee by proposing that money be allocated to a bioeconomy centre around the Hamar cluster, which we believe is crucial for the growth of that type of industry. A bet here is priority, and that's the right priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2523	This year's budget has a more dramatic backbone than we're used to here in Norway. Conversion is now absolutely necessary. The response of the Labour Party and the Left is to increase the public sector and send the bill to business in the form of increased taxes and taxes. It weakens both value creation and adaptability. They want to discriminate against private Norwegian ownership. Then they try to wrap up their absence of functional alternatives in beautiful words and long situational descriptions, but that doesn't help. The red-green reform refusal makes the situation more demanding now. In addition, we know that productivity fell at the same time as costs increased during the previous government, compared to our closest trading partners. The wood processing industry west of the Oslo soil was almost wiped out. Under the red-greens fresh oil money went into operation, not investment. The government is now using fresh oil money for what they are saying to be used for: investment in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. In the following year, the Norwegian economy became more and more dependent on oil. When the oil price and activity fall, we now pay the price for the red-greens choosing to push the transition to a more oil-independent economy ahead. With such a poor track record, it may not be strange that the red-greens now spend more time criticising the government than talking about their own solutions. Fortunately, we have a government that, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, looks forward, which understands that the most important thing now is to facilitate tomorrow's appreciation. Ensuring a sound and sustainable economy is more important than ever. It requires political accountability from all of us. The government’s budget for work, activity and conversion contributes to that very thing. It responds to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. Investments shall stimulate the creation of more jobs, make Norwegian business more competitive and secure. Therefore, our main efforts are in knowledge, research and innovation, infrastructure and tax relief. The government provides safe management for a demanding time. This budget shows it with all due clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2536	The budget of the Right and the Advance Party is a budget for work, activity and conversion. The government prioritizes, streamlines and modernises, which is absolutely necessary in the situation in Norway. Among other things, falls in the oil price have a significant negative impact on the labour market, and many are uncertain about their own job, and there is probably no good feeling to have. Financial policy in the year's budget is designed to support both short-term employment and long-term change and innovation. Fortunately, Norway is still in a successful state financial situation, and the Progress Party is pleased that the government is betting on effective and value-creating measures against unemployment. The Progress Party has high ambitions for Norway as a knowledge nation. The government is following this up by prioritising the knowledge sector. Governments and cooperation parties have increased student support and apprenticeship grants to apprenticeships each year. This will allow students to spend more time on studies, and increased apprenticeship grants will hopefully give more apprenticeships to future skilled skilled workers. Within the field of professional and real-time education, the measures for which the Progress Party has long worked are being implemented. We are also pleased with the efforts made in business research and expect this to provide more jobs in the short and long term. People are Norway's largest resource, and that must be translated into more value-creating innovation. A well-educated population is an important competitive factor for the country. In the budget, the government has clearly facilitated this by giving priority to knowledge, research and development. Efforts are being made both in knowledge institutions and in industry to ensure innovation and growth and thus secure jobs. This will give us more legs to stand on. The knowledge nation of Norway must have a good education offer at all stages, from kindergarten, primary school to vocational schools, universities and adult education. Overall thinking in child care and school policy is throughout the government’s budget. Real science, teacher's lift and other quality promotions, combined with increased cooperation with industry, contribute to improving school quality. We need to get more students who are motivated to become skilled professionals, academics and researchers. This is reflected in the government’s increased focus on research and higher education and, in particular, on real science, innovation and industrial research. This is a budget that is well adapted to the current situation and that has the right priorities for building the country further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2551	The working party has work for everyone as job no. 1st@item: inlistbox So should the government. Instead, they cut 1 billion. for actions aimed at those who lose their job and, in fact, 500 million. kr only on transportation. While unemployment falls in Europe, it rises in Norway. But when it's more important to give tax relief to those who have the most, this is the result. As early as October, the Workers' Party was concerned about tight municipal frames and how municipalities could cope with the equipment required to receive the new, increased refugee flow. The Workers' Party initially proposed to strengthen the municipal framework by 3 billion. SEK to expand childcare facilities, hire more teachers and provide older people with better care. Instead, they now sit around the municipalities and plan to cut. Local government is struggling to get the budget into port. Now, in addition, we have proposed an additional 1 billion to the municipalities so that they will also carry out the new, major tasks related to the integration and settlement tasks they have been given. I believe that the budget we are discussing today is going in the wrong direction. The Right Party and the Advance Party are still taxing those who already have the most, rather than strengthening the welfare of most people. This will not least mark my home country, Nordland. As you know, it's one of the states that is coming out very badly with the government's anti-diversity policy. The new cost keys that have now started to work, adopted in 2014, will mean a cut of 284 million. kr for Nordland County in 2019. In addition, there is a significant increase in the operating costs of the boat and ferry services. So far, it doesn't seem that this government is going to clean up this, so now the state politicians are running and getting a financial plan in place until 2019 with big cuts in traffic and school. I believe the Labour Party's budget has a much better district profile. I'll give you some examples. We increased the pot to regional development funds, which the government has cut down every year. We increased the municipal frames by 4 billion. kr. As you know, it is the municipalities and county councils that make daily offers to our citizens. We want to maintain today's commuter deduction and mileage. We are opposed to the proposal to introduce a new seat charge. It looks like the government hasn't had its mind off the big city when they come up with these proposals. Too many people actually don't have an alternative to a car, or to a plane. We're also increasing the contribution to broadband development three times more than the government. Finally, I would just like to say that this budget is a bad Christmas gift to all 127 000 unemployed in Norway and to all newly elected rapporteurs and municipal representatives who are struggling with the 2016 budget in port.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2575	In yesterday's Question Time, the representative Dag Terje Andersen said that several countries in Europe are now experiencing economic growth and lower unemployment. It is those countries that, unlike the Workers' Party, used the financial crisis to re-establish their welfare countries to a more robust and sustainable level. The representative Trond Giske said today that the red-greens had led Norway out of the financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment. However, according to the SSB, since 2008, the whole employment growth in Norway has gone to non-resident labour force. To Dagbladet, LO's chief economist, Stein Reegård, said that this has pushed the Nordics out of the labour market. The fall in the employment rate corresponds to 140000 jobs. There are 10,000 more jobs than the number that are available today. The representative Marianne Marthinsen said that today's government can be as little charged for the halving of the oil price as the red-green government can be charged for the financial crisis. Agreed. But both governments should be evaluated according to their results. The heirs of a red-green government with the largest economic space in history were increasing unemployment, increased oil dependence, a historical sharp deterioration in competitiveness and declining productivity, as well as 5,000 refugees with approved residence in line with asylum reception pending residence, and actually 15 000 more poor children than when the red-greens took over in 2005. After hearing the budget filtered through the opposition, I would like to remind you that when the budget was presented, it was well received land and beach around. NHO, Working and Innovation Norway considered the budget to be a good response to the situation in the Norwegian economy, and commended the commitment to growth-enhancing measures such as taxation, transport, research and innovation. The state road authority called the road budget historic, while the Railway Agency said it was good news for those using the train. The academics commended the government for their offensive commitment to research, while Abelia thought the budget was historically good at the focus on knowledge. Most of these, however, felt that this had to be an exceptional budget. Public size and equipment are not sustainable in the long term, nor is the use of oil money. There too I agree. I believe that we should move more towards those countries that are currently experiencing increased growth and lower unemployment, and use today's situation to reset the welfare state to a more robust and sustainable level. As a liberalist in a conservative party, it probably requires more self-control than many would think not to respond to thank-mails from new organisations that got an entry on this government budget. This is and should be an exceptional budget, appropriate for activity, work and conversion, for that is what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2590	Either the government will finance tax relief for the richest, so-called conversion or finance the green shift, well-being, commuters and an active industrial policy throughout the country have been the Right and the balancing item of the Progress Party. The budget agreement is the story of a poor package of measures that became even worse. It's almost amazing that commuters and people who have to travel long distances in their jobs have become a balancing post, at a time when unemployment is increasing and more people have to expect to travel longer to get a job. I wonder. At all, budget partners seem to have something against people on a long journey: cutting commuting deductions, taxing the driving allowance and – at the top – the air fare that came. I have with great wonder recorded that the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party in the budget negotiations negotiated a new fee on air travel from 1 April 2016, without having been properly investigated and evaluated. The centre party believes that this new fee is impractical. We are deeply concerned that it threatens key national concerns, namely the air services for businesses and individuals in many districts, as well as the jobs associated with today's aviation. We have noticed that this charge is referred to as a climate action, but it is obviously primarily a fiscally justified charge. With regard to the alleged environmental impact of the proposal, I would like to point out that any environmental impact comes first if routes are closed in whole or in part. In addition, the airlines have said that they will not do that. They're going to put in routes abroad, which will generate emissions again. Furthermore, the air fare does not distinguish between passengers travelling with efficient companies that do much to limit their emissions and companies that are not equally climate efficient. If the air fare was now meant to be an environmental tax, it can be criticised for being unnecessary stencil, and also have no incentive to make companies more climate friendly. The centre party believes that the wise approach to aviation emissions is to help distort fuel use to become more environmentally friendly – to strengthen the phase-in of biofuels, a good climate action and a good industrial policy action as well. There are many of us who don't have the opportunity to ride to work, some of whom have said that we should do a lot, but have to use planes because the distances are as long as they are. It's going to be like that in the future as well. So much we can't shrink the country with wise investments in transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2606	This is a budget based on the main lines of work, activity and conversion. Several measures include the package of measures of about 4 billion. kr, which in several sectors will contribute to employment in a challenging time. How the Workers' Party will meet this with a $10 billion tax tightening. kr, a person would like to ask. It is not viable to increase the public sector every time you have a counter-basin and recession. Furthermore, this government has record investments in the transport sector, and many in the civil engineering sector will also have new and lasting tasks. For the first time in very many years, we reduce maintenance and reduce accident statistics. Eighteen-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr also gives a boost to individuals and to those who are going to create the new jobs in the future. Growth-promoting tax laws work, although the left-hand side of Norwegian policy dislikes the fact that most people get to keep more of their fancy money. Then we have a considerable unemployment in the oil sector, and I have to stress that all the sailors who, these days, are adding ships to berths and in warehouses, are seriously disturbing me. With a forecast of up to 100 ships, we're talking about thousands of lay-offs. But what we belong to from the opposition in that context is how much is left in the ground to reach the climate measure. In spite of the fact that we have the lowest emissions per barrel produced, the result is that a surplus of output to those who consume more. Understand who it is who wills! At least there will be no lower emissions of such policies. Then I must point out that I am pleased that OED and State Council Lien released a record-breaking 23rd concession round. This will still provide work for many decades to come, and it is my hope that the next round, which will soon be ready, will be record-breaking, to the joy and benefit of the unemployed and the country. There is a great deal of interest from oil companies for new blocks in the allocation round that is now taking place, and allocation will take place next year. To quote the Labour Party’s spokesman, Kjell Neergaard in Kristiansund today, who says the following: ‘I am provoked by politicians who speak down the oil industry.’ No one has created greater uncertainty than the leadership of the Labour Party on the future of the Norwegian petroleum sector. Finally, many are happy about the conversion of car charges, such as: gives families with children the opportunity to buy cheaper safe, large cars, as well as the climate benefit of the in-conversion. Many are pleased with the reduction in the curtailment of cohabited and married pensioners, which was an unfair scheme. And not least, we are happy with the increase in lower pensions. And then finally, one can determine in the opposition's black measurement that this is a budget for work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2627	The war in Syria has led to the greatest refugee crisis since World War II. This is primarily a crisis for all the people living in a brutal war, and for those people who have left their homes and set out on a life - threatening flight. But it also challenges us, and it requires leadership. As a matter of urgency, the opposition parties in Stortinget had to initiate talks on a broad asylum settlement. Government parties responded to the invitation to go some extra rounds with themselves and spend unnecessary time at internal seminars, before they finally sat down at the negotiating table. A lot could have been done earlier. Now we have to be wise, and don't make the same mistake in the next turn. For the vast majority of those who are now seeking asylum are going to stay here. And regardless of all the global mitigation measures, in the next few years, municipalities will have to settle many new citizens to integrate and become tomorrow’s contributors to their communities. The challenges we are now facing can be turned into opportunities if we do the right grips now. Then we need to equip the municipalities, and we need to strengthen integration policy. But when everyone in this room agrees that language is crucial to integration, the government chooses to cut Norwegian education. So when we know that school is one of the best integration arenas, the government is proposing cutbacks in the school offer for asylum children. And when we know that it's the municipalities that contribute to integration, the government also chooses next year to underfinance the municipalities. The working party has better solutions. We're going to play with the municipalities of the country, we're going to strengthen the municipal economy by almost 4 billion next year. kr, we propose more Norwegian training, we want to increase the host municipality grant and the integration grant, we propose a strong commitment to the House Bank and several rental homes, and we propose a proper lifting of the volunteer. The situation we are in requires that we give proper priority, but the government chooses short-term cuts in integration policy, which will cost us dearly in the future. We're in a situation that requires something of us, that requires action, but the government spends time on political games and internal seminars. The situation requires clarity, but while the government is calling for effort, representatives from the government parties fly around the municipalities and encourage boycott of that skill. This requires accountability, while some in this room, who are responsible, are most concerned about blaming everyone else. The future depends on our prioritizing integration, work to all and minor differences. But with this budgetary agreement, unfortunately, it is simply to note that it has neither the will nor the ability of the majority to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2638	The two-part economy in Norway has long been identified as a challenge. The reality of this challenge came faster than we thought, and became very visible after the sharp fall in the oil price, which has contributed to increased unemployment. There are families and individuals who experience great uncertainty, and not least we have a refugee and migration crisis that affects many of us. Then I'm glad we have a government that takes this seriously, and that delivers a budget to meet this challenge – a budget for work, activity and change. There are important efforts through this budget to create new jobs. The company tax is being reduced, precisely to make Norwegian employment more competitive. The wealth tax is further reduced, but here we have a big challenge that soon all of us have to face. Is it fair that a foreign-owned company should have better framework conditions than a Norwegian company? Through this budget, the Right continues its enormous commitment to culture. This benefits business as well as most people. Not least we have seen the result of this in my own home country. Yes, the government is following the NTP adopted under the previous government, but we are overfulfilling in terms of progress plan. From a situation when we took over, where many projects had not started according to plan, the level of appropriations with this government has given real impetus to road construction. The national transport plan provides an annual average of 688 million in the allocation to North Norway. kr in the years 2014 to 2017. Before the presentation of the 2016 budget, we have put on the table 1039 million. kr annually. On top of this comes the 2016 budget. It is worth noting the statements made by the Regional Road Manager of the State Road Administration on the state budget for North Norway: ‘It is a good budget due to an increase in the level of operation and maintenance. It makes it possible for the first time in history to do something about the aftermath we have on roads in the north." For the Nordic exporting country, this commitment to trade is one of the most important factors that can contribute to both job growth and ensure a continuing low unemployment rate. Finally, the government has shown great willingness to bet on the judiciary. With the budget of the Right-wing-Fremskrit party government, we have contributed to more than a thousand police posts. And yes, we have signed an agreement with the Netherlands on the rental of prison sites, while giving priority to building up prison capacity in Norway. And now we see that this gives good results in the reconciliation queues; they go down. The large pay queue we took over resulted in the doomsdays being put on hold for their lives in the absence of a place of atonement. And the Right Party government does not want to make use of the forward-looking release scheme of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2652	Work for everyone is a job number one. We know that working for everyone is the best thing to avoid poverty. It's the best thing for inclusion, which may be extra important in these days. A high level of employment and a serious and good work life are a feature of a society with small income differences and a high level of equality. Many at work provide us with a good basis for better distribution and financing important common tasks such as education, health and infrastructure. In the next round, it gives important advantages to business. It is important that we bet on work and that we bet on good solutions in demanding times. The government's budget and the settlement do little for the unemployed, little for the future, but the mass to increase the difference. There is a lack of action for those who lose their job — both the rules of leave and the places of action. With better placement rules, we provide important skills for businesses, and with action spaces, we provide activity and learning until he or she is given new work. Because there's a human being behind the number. There are people who are about to celebrate Christmas and who are now perhaps concerned about the expenses. It's a human being who doesn't get to use his resources. They're serving a government that takes responsibility. We must also invest in future jobs. From there, the Workers' Party invests in professional, entrepreneurial, with the accelerator program, reduced corporate tax and climate technology. It's about healing and the willingness to give priority. It does the Workers' Party as opposed to the Government. The government’s package of measures has been reduced following the conciliation, and today the Minister of Finance was unable to respond to the level of the package of measures after the conciliation. It is serious when the number of unemployed is approaching 130 000. Good trade union workers build the country. With the developments we have seen now, we may be missing from 90,000-190,000 skilled workers in 2035. In that case, more people have to choose a professional profession. We will strengthen vocational training programmes, provide up-to-date equipment, improve skills for professionals and improve apprenticeship opportunities. What is important for elephants to choose a professional profession is more than both apprenticeship and equipment. It's about gender balance in subjects. It's about study skills. It's not a matter of opting out opportunities when you're a professional, and it's a matter of having a basic education that allows you to learn practical subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2665	First, I have to be allowed to comment on the civilization that took place earlier today from SV to the Christian People's Party. I just have to find out that the Christian People's Party is the Cretan, and SV is very far from having gone, and we appreciate that in the Right. The State budget is a very good mix between the necessary short-term measures and the necessary long-term measures — not least the need to create new, sustainable jobs. In fact, the State budget contains a dose of traditional, Keynesian counter-cyclical policy. A multibillion - dollar package of measures is part of the areas where the fall in the oil price has resulted in unemployment. We're in a breakup. We go from a situation in which the oil industry has played a very important role in the economy to a situation and a future in which the oil industry will play a smaller role. Action packages are important, but action packages also have a clear limitation. They shall be taken correctly in the course of the economic cycle and in a way shall be reversible. Far more important is the tax system and the ability to design a tax system that actually stimulates innovation and growth. Discussing taxes with the Workers' Party has been a sad activity in recent years. The lot has been unilaterally involved in the redistribution effects of the tax system. They're important, but it has to be possible to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. The right is concerned with a tax system that ensures both redistribution and facilitates growth and innovation. Macroeconomic models are important to keep pace with the economy, but that's not enough. If you travel around the country and ask business owners what is the most important measure to maintain jobs, the answer is: remove the taxes on wealth. This special tax that favors foreign ownership is a direct invitation to fly out of the country. The Right Party Government does what it has promised. Schools, transportation and justice are being strengthened all over the world, and the results are coming. Reconnaissance cows go down, health cows go down, and the clearance rate goes up. In the Tribune, the Workers' Party sits in its political mill bag and wonders what the prescription is. The prescription is effective and the prescription is a priority. Finally, the government significantly strengthens the fight against labour crime. Criminal activities shall not be allowed to undermine legal activities and the welfare society. A joint intelligence and analysis centre and a strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, etc. are concrete measures that the government is now delivering on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2680	"When we found the oil, we showed us the way" and secured the country big incomes. We have been given the ‘experience the value of the wise choices our parents and grandparents made almost 50 years ago’. The finance minister said this in his financial speech – a finance minister from the Progress Party, a party that at the time would not want the oil to be in the hands of the people, but they would sell, have full privatisation and lower taxation of the entire sector. But it's nice that she praises those who made the important and right decisions at the time. At the press conference following the budgetary conciliation here in the United Kingdom, the political spokesman of the Progressive Party said that the government's draft budget was a good starting point for the negotiations. I must say I find it somewhat strange. If this was a good starting point, why was it pushed on all the temptations? It was also said that this was just the point of getting into port. - Strange things. So over to something else – technical schools: The Minister of Knowledge has travelled the country the last year and said that 2015 would be the year of the vocational school. It didn't make any sense. Now he has changed rhetoric and tells us that 2016 is going to be the year of the college. But there is nothing in the state budget that would make it a reality. It's disappointing. We are obviously waiting for a big message, but there is a lot that can be done before that, and it is urgent. It is urgent because all forecasts show that Norway will have a major need for skilled workers in the future, and we need to start the job of training them now. It is urgent because there are many unemployed skilled workers, and they can now use the time to acquire new skills, which is important for the individual in the wider career but also for the workforce and the business community. That's why we're proposing to grant $10 million. kr to create 300 more places as part of a stepping-up plan for 1000 new post-secondary school places over a three-year period. It's a shame we don't get a majority for this, but it's another example of the government's lack of willingness to put in place good measures to dampen unemployment. I started with oil policy divisions. Now it is Statskog – the heirloom – that is to be sold. The forest will be one of our bet areas in the future, with opportunities for great profits, and that is why it is very urgent for the blue-blue to be sold as quickly as possible. For the Workers' Party, it is important that forests, mountains and fish water are available to all, and that future values are guaranteed for our descendants, as we did with the oil. I choose to end with an old quote from an Indian chief – a little reworded: Who should own the purity of the air and glitter in the water?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2695	For a long time we have been able to present Norway as an island of work in a sea of unemployment. It's not like that anymore. We're moving up on unemployment statistics. We pass countries like Germany and the United States. The oil shadow lies over the country, and in the interior we have long lived in that shadow. But also in the hinterland, we notice the change in oil-related activities. There are lay-offs and lay-offs also in our companies. The Stoltenberg government put down the Inland Committee. The mission was to look at measures that could strengthen industrial development, provide profitable jobs and value creation in the region. The selection has now provided the setting, and it provides input to the government on how to develop the country. There are few answers in the government's draft budget. But the interior can make a good contribution to the green transition we're going to go into. At Raufoss, there is an environment that is at the forefront in innovation and value creation. At a time when unemployment is breaking down, we need an offensive government, and the offensive we have heard from the government is cut in wealth taxes. It's mantra for increased growth. But how long must we wait? When will that government call growth-promoting tax relief, actually become growth-promoting? I think, unfortunately, that the cuts in property taxes contribute more to the private economy of those who are better off than to more jobs. As wealth taxes are reduced, the social security network is also reduced by those who lose their jobs. I guess that's what we could call a reverse bias policy. It starts with a cut for how long those who lose the job after a bankruptcy get paid from the pay guarantee scheme. Last year there was more money for the unemployed who were being spared. This year, the end-of-year compensation has extended the quarantine period and tax to those who have lost the job. I'm afraid the Christmas press from the government ends up in the category «unwanted». It's almost 2 billion. kr i cut for those who have lost the job. It is in stark contrast to the tax priorities. In today's Drammen's Official Journal we see that the Morten Wold of the Progress Party defends this and calls politics a boost for the unemployed. It must be one of the most embarrassing defense figures he's ever written. Finally, we now see that the government's fiscal figure on the Stortinget, Svein Flötten, says that commuter expenditure is private expenditure and refers to increased minimum deductions. There is a lot of evidence that commuters can also expect negative Christmas fronts from the government in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2712	In its main speech this morning, Marianne Marthinsen of the Workers' Party clearly stated the political message of the Workers' Party in this debate – the struggle for each of the 127 000 who are now attending an unemployed Christmas, and the struggle for more to follow. The blue-blue budget does not address the 127 000. Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen are more concerned with tax cuts in the billions class, although they know that this does nothing but work to make the rich richer. In addition, the unemployed have received their own billion-dollar cut, but with the opposite sign – 2 billion. until now, kr i cut in benefits. The government is working on its own mantra, it's going to have them -- the rich are going to be stimulated even more, the little ones from before are going to be whipped by even less, but to what? I really wonder how many jobs are created by cutting the daily allowance? Jonas Gahr Støre had an important point before today – what happens to trust in a society where people who want to be active do not get involved? This is not least important when we are now integrating and employing more new citizens than usual. There's danger on the road if the unemployed are set up against each other and create a we-and-them. The responsibility rests heavily on all political parties, but especially on those in government. Today's debate shows that some people can easily go under the radar. We do not find them in unemployment statistics, but in the disability chapter, some of them quite young, only at the beginning of what should have been a life of work, with wages, which contribute to growth and value creation in Norway — as seen, included and valued. And there's a lot of them. According to the FFO, 87 000 disabled people are currently out of the labour market involuntarily. So the unemployment rate is really over 200,000 if we bring everybody along. The FFO fears that the disabled will come to the end of the queue when the unemployment rises. It's not supposed to happen. Something is about concrete action. Here the Workers' Party is adding 380 million. kr. more than the government. Something's about attitudes. All research shows that one action works better than all others. It's education. Nevertheless, we just let some Nav offices drop education as a measure. We propose several places of study and post-secondary education. It is cut into the means of activity for people over 26 years of age, it is cut into the organisation allowance for people with disabilities in their working life. The schemes are too little known, so the money will not be used. Then it was cut, instead of campaigning to get more people to use them. Unintelligible, but it blends into the image of increasing differences, lack of action and inaction — unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2723	I thought I could start by pleasing the representative Aasrud. Her concern for the hinterland can be answered. In her own county, Uppland, the registered unemployment rate is now 1.9 p.m., and the county of Hedmark is where the unemployment rate went down most last month. That's good news for the hinterland. Then I want to say that it was good of the representative Lise Christoffersen to talk about what the Right has tried to address for many, many years, namely the hidden unemployment. If there is something the Workers' Party is now going to be concerned about, namely outside Norway, it is good timing. We remember the warnings that were in the media after the previous big shot. Among other things, increasing leave was predicted. The previous government did very little to prepare Norway. They were more concerned about traveling around the country and promising billions for all sorts of good purposes. Nevertheless, they today choose to criticise the government’s use of money. At the same time, they trickle with the figures in their own alternative budget. They spend money they don't have. Some of us thought this was something left-hand end maybe once in the 1980s or something like that -- but it's back. If the budget of the Workers' Party were to be implemented, the use of oil money had to be increased. Nevertheless, they criticise our use of oil money. Last year, they counted errors in their government budget, this year they spend the money that doesn't exist. It'll be exciting to see what they'll find next year. And while they're doing this, they're going to increase the taxes by 10.5 billion. kr. Workplaces shall be taxed harder. So not enough that they did not prepare Norway well enough for the change that was to come, so they are not able to act when we are standing in the middle of it. All they're left with is the communications department's speech points written once 10 to 15 years ago. Especially impressive is it not for what many perceive to be a governing party. On the other hand, the four cooperation parties have launched a tax reform in which there is room for more investment in new jobs – new jobs that need to be created. The four parties provide a massive commitment to transport, infrastructure, research and education. Do you remember the rest cutting, President? It's a story that you almost don't believe anymore when you get it told. More people in the Workers' Party today have been talking about people falling outside. A representative disagreed slightly with the difference between Nav’s registered unemployment figures and AKU figures – there is an important difference one should be aware of. But we're never going to forget how many people were invisible during the Workers' Party's implementation of the Nav reform. Therefore, we close holes in the safety net, among other things. on drugs and psychiatry, and we're repatriating the employment service in Nav. This budget is for work, activity and conversion. The Seven, the Fleet, Breivik, Limi and the rest of the cooperation parties have delivered, and that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2744	With the hat as a staging representative from Sogn and Fjordane on it is interesting to follow the debate today. At the 2013 big shot, the signatures were constantly characterized by representatives of today's government party and support party as a black-pointer, with no future-proof and chronic pessimistic – this is because the Center Party and I said a little about how Norway in general and District Norway in particular would develop with a blue-blue government. So, Sogn and Fjordane are districts, so what happens? We're all abducted police officer. How many laymen we miss, no one knows, it's up to the bureaucrats in the police department to decide. We're about to miss the alarm station in Florø, it's not going to happen without a fight. There is a sketch for a split solution between Florø and Bergen, where one is good back-up for each other, and one can get a more robust solution with good local knowledge. We ask the Minister of Justice for a trial plan, the question is whether we should listen to it. Security is important, so it is good that Sogn and Fjordane are also part of the net. What is not good is that the cost to municipalities is up to a hundred times more expensive per capita compared to e.g. Bergen. We can't do that, and I hope the Minister of Justice will look at the cost distribution again in 2016 and find a distribution that is to live with. The mound in Sogn and Fjordne are delivering particularly good results, and the students in our schools are presenting results between the best in the country, thank you very much for the good teaching skills at our high school. But does that mean anything? No, the government refuses to accept that the højskull will continue as today, and is running an untimely pressure for aggregation at the same time as one creates uncertainty about the good teacher education that our county has had for many decades. Why? On the menu a belief that a blue-blue government would mean good times in Sogn and Fjordane. However, the government's tax haven finds to a small extent the road to Sogn and Fjordane, where most of it goes to Oslo west, Asker and Bærum, where large capital exists. To compensate for this, the government cut off most of the funds Sogn and Fjordane County and Innovation Norway have had to pursue active enterprise policies. In this year's budget also cut Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party funds Florø, Førde and Sogndal have had as compensation for falling out of the system of differentiated employer fees. The central party fought through the fact that these funds were going to last as a post on the state budget. A lot of important entrepreneurial and nutrition projects have seen the light of day thanks to the so-called INU funds. 10.5 million. kr is allocated this year – but these will be gone. There will be nutrient developments in Florø, Förde and Sogndal, as well as the rest of the county, which have benefited from the resources, and it will be ring-fenced by the fact that Förde, Florø and Sogndal are important drivers in the economic development of Sogn and Fjordane. In addition, Florø will receive the new fare from the Government Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It could put the airport in jeopardy, he's got a marginal surplus. I don't know what wrong we have in Sogn and the Fjords have done this government, but people who should be happy about every day that goes, because it's one day less until we get a government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2765	In the same way as both last year and last year, in the Left we have our verbal proposals as part of the framework comments also in the financial situation. In the past, no other game has been heard for any of these. It turns out not to be the case this year, and as part of the wholehearted budgetary agreement we have with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, I therefore draw the proposal no. 21-34.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2771	The proposals to which Mr Breivik has referred have been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2774	On Wednesday 18 November, representatives from trade unions with nearly 400,000 members gathered in the square outside the oil museum in Stavanger. It wasn't to look at the exhibition about the past, but to fight for the future. On a slightly housed November evening, we heard the demands of the trade-organised government that the government should address the situation in the West, demand for measures to mitigate the fall in activity on the Norwegian base, demand for measures to strengthen the competence of all those who have become unemployed in the last year and demand for legislation on permitting that works in the situation we are experiencing on our side of the country. The oil and energy minister was there, too. He could be compassionate. But the unemployed and their workmates who fear their jobs do not ask for compassion. They ask for a job, a fill of skills, decent conditions and political leadership. Since the downturn started, the Labour Party has made proposals to the Stortinget on measures that can remedy the situation, but we have been downgraded. We fear that in this downpour of the industry we will lose precious capacity and skills that we will need when we get back on the road. If we leave governance entirely to the oil companies and their short-term thinking, we will experience that we do not have enough people, competence and capacity to take on new roofs. Then we get a new cost spiral, and all the competitive power that is gained in the meantime, disappears. I was in Stavanger Square and heard the demands of the trade union leaders. They have the support of the Workers' Party. In our alternative state budget, we propose changes to the law on permitting, so that you can be allowed to leave for 52 weeks. We reduce the employer’s pay obligation from 10 to 5 days. We're opening up so you can be 40 pst. Permitted, and we will have increased use of intra-corporate training during the period of leave. We also want to have 2 000 more job vacancies, and we want to increase the apprenticeship grant, so that more young people get an apprenticeship. When unemployment increases, we also see that the propensity of working life is threatened. Serious employers who respect statutory and contractual works experience a loss of competition against unprofessional operators, who use underpaid labour under illegal and poor conditions. The working party will counteract this. We will increase the appropriations allocated to the Labour Inspectorate, strengthen regional protection agencies and give more money to the Centres against the crime of working life. And not least, we will reverse access to temporary employment when we gain power over it. In the West, we're used to representing the majority of the value creation in the country. We're proud of it, and we want it to still be like this. But then we have to have a government that cares more about those who create the values – not compassion or clapping on the shoulder in party speeches, but concrete measures that provide the basis for work and value creation. The West needs a government to do its job so that the Westerners can do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2787	This meeting is perhaps the most important meeting in political Norway throughout the year, because tonight we will decide what to prioritise next year. But even more important than this meeting is the meeting that is currently going on in Paris, where all the countries of the world will agree on how to solve the greatest challenge of our time. It's not just about next year, but it's about the entire planet's future. It is a difficult task, but the Paris meeting is just the sum of what all countries contribute. When we need countries to travel there with greater ambitions and with greater promises, Norway has chosen to do the opposite. Then I don't think of the government party’s representatives who thought yesterday that the earth was going to fix itself, and that it was the sun that was the climate problem in Norway. No, I'm thinking about what the government itself has done – what the government itself has presented that they want us to adopt here today. The draft budget was the first after the Storting decided that we should cut 40 pst. by 2030. Then you would expect a budget that would cut big while we've got the opposite. We've got a budget that the government itself says is going to increase emissions. Or as Nina Jensen in WWF said, ‘When it comes to climate and environment, this is one of the worst state budgets I have ever seen.’ Last week the Prime Minister was out and almost canceled the climate agreement. She does not take the climate responsibility that one can expect a Prime Minister to take, but owes to others. That's the way it goes when the bulk of the population has placed the only batch that's not on the climate deal to manage it. Yesterday, the opposition asked what Norway was going to say about how we were going to achieve our goals of 40 p.m. Then the Prime Minister said that we had to wait for an agreement with the EU, which she thought could not be reached until maybe 2017. You could almost suspect this government to wait for a new government to take over before you can start the job of cutting emissions. We don't have time for that, and above all, it doesn't have time for the climate. One of the most difficult issues in international climate policy is the financing of climate action in the south. The poorest countries have little confidence in the rich. So the government's proposal cuts off 1.5 billion. kr in international climate assistance. Renewable energy agreements, climate finance, support for civil society and the rainforest must be cancelled. On 29 October, the Minister for Climate Change stood on the platform in London. She then said that Norway was ready to increase the appropriations for the rainforest. The next day she came home and suggested that she cut 400 million. kr for the same purpose. In her defense, she said that she still supported the principle of 3 billion. kr. I guess that's the breakthrough she's had in the government. She gets an impact on principle support, while the Minister of Finance gets too much leverage. The problem is that the rainforest is saved by money, not by principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2803	Especially after extensive overtime in the negotiations between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, the majority's budgetary unity does not respond to the main challenges we see. This concerns the challenges of increasing unemployment. Unemployment rates are rising steadily, and the government is not adopting the necessary measures to help people return to work. We all know very well that if unemployment got stuck, it would be hard to get back down. A long-term high unemployment rate is a loss for individuals and, of course, a loss for society. Nor does this draft budget respond to the challenges faced by municipalities in addressing health, care, school and, last but not least, the settlement and integration of refugees. The Workers' Party's alternative budget proposal would bring the municipalities up to 4 billion. kr more for 2016. This is money that the municipal government representatives there had guaranteed well in health, school services and other important services for their citizens. In the government’s proposal for a government budget, there was virtually no investment in Eastfold — there was not even a single study place to find. So it is said that the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left gave something, in the name of honesty. At the fare: We note that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party from Eastfold are now in favour of a fiscal charge on aircraft seats, which will give Moss Airport a very uncertain future. Moss Airport Rygge has gradually been able to get framework conditions that have given them good opportunities. The fact that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party from Eastfold will now vote in favour of an airline seat fee does not stand as a believer when we see and hear what they have said and promised in previous debates on the same airport. Finally, it is only to record that the Progress Party – amazingly enough – is involved in fees increases for most people, which are 200 million. kr greater than what the Workers' Party proposes in its option. 2016 will be a challenging year for the unemployed and for our municipalities with this draft budget going through here tonight. It wouldn't have been necessary – you could have given a different priority. I also hear that the majority's budget is without clear direction and without clear owners. The members of the budget are more concerned with celebrating small and large individual victories than with taking a joint responsibility for the whole of the budget they present. It doesn't promise well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2818	I record that very many of the representatives on the right have spent their speaking time talking about the Workers' Party. We take this as a sign of a lack of self-confidence and a government project that has now spent so much of its time and energy agreeing that you no longer have the surplus to talk about new ideas and better solutions. Some new ideas they have, but mostly there are bad solutions. Today, we are discussing a budget that has been cut together for a very difficult time, a time that requires in particular two things from political leaders: leadership and community solutions. Both increasing unemployment, climate challenges and the refugee situation call for leadership. Moreover, the challenges are of such a nature and scale that only strong communities can handle them. The opposition, including the Workers' Party, has therefore made a number of proposals. We have put forward proposals for better and more flexible permitting legislation, several action areas, targeted youth investment, active enterprise policies, among others. accelerator programme, measures to create new activity and jobs, measures to meet climate challenges and to strengthen the local economy, inter alia. contributing to the ability of municipalities to cope with the refugee situation and to enhance well-being. However, what we see as a red thread in both the government's response and budget is an inability to prioritise, with the exception of two things: tax cuts and higher oil money consumption. We see that it is cut in a wide range of measures that could have helped to meet the challenges facing Norway in a good way. Why the government is not able to prioritize the work to combat the highest unemployment rate we have seen for over 20 years is a mystery to me. In the cultural field, too, we see a lack of ability to prioritize the right things. The government is using record oil billions of dollars and cancels the Culturallift. The Labour Party maintains its trade mark, namely to keep the economy in order, and at the same time to the objective of 1 pst. to culture in order to increase the scope for development and to ensure all offers and access. The government talks very nicely about and writes very nicely about volunteering, but in practice it shows that it gets pretty much done with fine words. Volunteering could now have had a major role to play in meeting the refugee situation. Unfortunately, the government is also very passive in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2833	Early in the debate, the representative Fletten – who is the political spokesman for the Right in this case – said that the main difference in this discussion is in the view of the size of the public sector and of the importance of taxation for the development of employment. Of course, the fleet is quite right in that, that is where the main difference in this debate is going. And that's where the main division between the right and the left of Norwegian politics has gone through the whole of Norway's modern history. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said in the Question Time – and she repeated it so far today, at least indirectly – that the Labour Party’s policy, at least in the ‘long term’, as she said, and it was a quote, would undermine the possibility of establishing a good level of employment in Norway. What we're looking at is the two statements that I've now referred to the Stortinget, that the right-hand side goes straight into its political tradition: lower public expenditure, less public sector and higher taxes disproportionately distributed, as we also see in this budget. Of course, it is no surprise that a right-wing government, including the Progress Party, is pursuing such a policy – that is what they stand for. What's new, and as I say, is the political regret, is that the Christian People's Party and the Left are breaking their political tradition and agreeing to such a social development. I don't understand. I don't understand why the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are welfare parties, are blinded by small and simple victories, and then to stand behind such a fundamental development that will gradually make Norway completely different. This, I believe, is in every way the most important thing in this debate. I think it's got too little attention, because this is the nervousness of the situation. What is indirectly in the budget for which, of course, Siv Jensen is primarily responsible, as Minister of Finance, is that in addition to this, those at the bottom of the table are put under pressure. I don't have time to go into all the examples, but the Storting understands what I'm saying. This combination creates inequalities and undermines the possibility of what is the government's stated objective, namely full employment and dynamism in the economy. That's the international experience. I do not expect the Right to see it; I definitely do not expect the Advance Party to see it, but that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not see it, I do not understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2844	For the right, it is important that we today adopt a budget for work, for activity and for migration. As many have experienced today, Norway is in the most challenging situation in several decades. The oil price has fallen, unemployment has increased, we have a refugee and migration crisis, and Europe is being terrorised. Families and individuals experience insecurity. This situation requires political accountability, and it is important for the Right that Norway is managed safely. A budget for work, activity and conversion involves a budget focusing on knowledge, research and innovation, on infrastructure and on tax incentives that make Norwegian business more competitive. In fact, the government with the effects of the 2016 budget has implemented tax credits equivalent to SEK 18.7 billion. kr. The most important welfare in people's lives is having a safe job to go to. It's this one that enables us to pay for the mortgage and support ourselves and the family. That is why I am pleased that, through the government's proposals and through the conciliation with our cooperation parties, we have a budget that helps to create new, safe jobs that will give us more weight to stand on. We have a government that shows accountability and action to meet a challenging situation. In today's debate, allegations have been made that the government's initial package of measures, which it was presented, amounts to 4 billion. kr, has been eroded. The representative Marthinsen had a long outline of single points in that package. Then my answer to her and to the Workers' Party will be that in the agreement we have done a lot of things that will come under this package of measures. I could mention someone, who in total amounts to over 1 billion. kr. It's new building for SEARCH in Rogaland, $8 million. kr. The apprenticeship grant is further increased, by NOK 2500, which amounts to SEK 49 million. kr i proveny. Nutritional research is strengthened, amounting to 40 million. kr. There will be an increase in seed funds located in Agder and Telemark of 67.1 million. kr. Regional development and food resources receive 124.2 million. kr. The contribution to logging along the coast is 22.5 million. kr. Racial protection of county roads is increased by 75 million. kr. Walk and cycle path, highway and county road, 100 million. NOK 150 million, operation and maintenance on rail. NOK, railway renewal, 275 million. NOK 100 million and the reward for emissions cuts in the municipalities. kr. This total is over 1 billion. as the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left has strengthened what we must say is a package of measures in terms of short-term effects in order to meet unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2864	The budget adopted today is not a budget for most people. Because most people live in a municipality. The real growth in municipalities is higher than that in this budget. This means that many municipalities are now in a difficult budgetary process with difficult cuts and conversions. When I talk to the rapporteurs in East-Agder, they say that they should be involved and run effectively for the money, but it is actually also possible to save themselves. The same rapporteurs report a higher level of sick leave as a consequence of minor staffing in hospitals and kindergartens. Children and older people get a worse offer, not only do they get more temporary workers to deal with and less predictability, but they meet employees who do not have time for work and who are stressed out. Is that what the government wants to prevent? Is that how the government will care? In my home municipality, Evje and Hornnes, the transfers from the state do not provide enough to bet on quality and an even better offer. On the contrary, it's about keeping what we have. The municipality has to cut. As a result, Evje and Hornnes have gone from ongoing kindergarten admissions to one admission per year. They have removed the standard of living that they had introduced in kindergartens, so that there are now more children per adult. The municipality has dentures that do not have a daily offer, and home help services have been scrapped to the bone. The government describes that the municipal budget should provide a simpler everyday life for most people. I dare say that everyday life does not become easier in a municipality that has to cut its services. And when the government writes in the municipal budget that it's going to provide a stronger social security network, I wonder if they've actually talked to the municipalities about what they need to do. It seems strange to say that you have to strengthen something, and then you don't follow up with the economy in practice. The undersigned is sure that most people will have a municipality that is good to grow up in and good to get old in. Tax bills do not provide such a municipality. At a time when population growth in most of the municipalities around Norway is growing considerably due to the refugee situation, it is strange to give priority to smaller taxes to them with the most from time to time. And it makes it a little bit extra bad when you know that people might want to pay the hundreds of bills extra a year if they knew that it meant that school, kindergarten, health and care got better. East-Agder had earned whether it was the Labour Party budget that was adopted here today. Norway had earned it. Instead, we have to look again at our country moving in the wrong direction, where we give priority to individuals over the community. Politics is about priorities. The working party prioritizes the municipalities, because we know that this is how to create equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2881	So far in the debate, most of it has been said about what we think about today's draft budget, and in all modesty, my conclusion is that the Labour Party's draft budget contributes to providing the Norwegian people with greater social protection than the budget provided by the government and its supporters. I claim this because the social-democratic value-seeing trumps the value-liberalism that lies at the bottom of the blue-blue parties. Erling Nielsen's well-known poster put the Workers' Party slogan in the center of the election in 1933: The whole people in work – City and country hand in hand. The message is as important today as it was in 1933 – and perhaps most important for the 127,000 who today wake up this morning without having a job to go to, with the consequences it has for the unemployed, its family and society. More than 400 of these unemployed live in South Varanger because of the bankruptcy of South Varanger Gruve – a disaster for a small community like South Varanger. What can the state do, was the question that went to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The message they received from the minister was that Finnmark County immediately had to use the regional instruments to contribute to new activities in Kirkenes. It is considered to be negligible – if you belong to a government party – but the reality is that today’s government has contributed to the fact that regional instruments themselves are soon a bankruptcy dwelling. They are bottled year by year, and only in Finnmark are these funds cut by 45 million. since Minister of Industry Mæland took office in the Ministry. The message to the unemployed affected by the bankruptcy is: Ready yourself. There is once again a confirmation that we have a government that chooses to respond passively to the challenges of the unemployed and local communities in the context of increasing unemployment. Changeover, says the government representatives. We call it a discharge. The Prime Minister was proud of our seafood industry, and so am I – because a large proportion of the export values are taken ashore in Finnmark. It has so far ensured good employment on land and sufficient resources for the fisherman both in the jack and on the trawler. However, many fears that the government of Solberg’s fisheries policy, as described in the maritime food industry communication, will have dramatic consequences for our coastal population. In the message, the government is placing silver in the hands of the major players in Norwegian fisheries, and among them we do not find the Sharkfisherman from Finnmark. Many of them fear that in the future they will have to hold their hats in their hands and be happy that they will at all be allowed to be an actor in the big ocean outside their own living door on what is left after the trawls have supplied themselves and moved the common values out of the county – another example of this government's definition of conversion. Community resources are transferred from the many to the few. Such a change will not involve the population on the Finnish coast, nor will the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2896	I think most in this debate have pointed out that Norway is in the most challenging situation it has been in for decades: the oil price has fallen, with the consequences it has, and we have a refugee and migration crisis that challenges us both nationally and locally. I don't have to elaborate on it. Our municipalities take great responsibility for refugees and asylum seekers, but the situation is demanding and will require even more of us. At the same time, we know that many families and individuals also experience great uncertainty in our neighbourhoods this year, as we now enter the pre-Christmas period. We are well aware of this in South Africa, where unemployment has increased considerably. We are in a situation that requires political accountability. We're dependent on solving these problems together. For the right, it is important that Norway is managed safely. I am pleased that the government and the cooperation parties in this situation have maintained the priority of work, activity and conversion in this budget. In the South we notice that this government's investment in infrastructure and transport is record high. We're enjoying that. More money is allocated to knowledge, research and innovation. We need to create new jobs for the future. Through good cooperation and reconciliation with the Left and Christian People's Party, our part of the country has also set up a sorely sought-after seed fund. It is, together with the allocation to the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, an important tool for industrial development in the region, for which our part of the country is very pleased. New Folkehochschule in Mandal and a good grant of new scholarships and academic places to the University, together with funds from the Foundation The Archives and the strengthening of the Regional Research Fund, have been important issues for developing the knowledge environments in the South. In this budget, the government, together with the cooperation parties, is doing a good job in this area. Safe jobs and a good social safety net are the cornerstones of our society. This is the basis for Norway to continue to be a constructive contributor to the international arena in the future and to assume its responsibilities in the demanding refugee and migration situation in which we stand. Many people depend on us to do ours now. When we are in a Russian storm in our country and experience international unrest around us, I am pleased that the government and the cooperation parties have just placed emphasis on Community responsibility, as the representative Skei Grande previously called for, and on accountability and action in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2914	Safer working lives and more private production jobs in industries with renewable raw materials are the two main challenges in 2016. The centre party is seeing increasing problems in securing the Norwegian working life model, which will ensure that all workers are safe from work. The centre party will therefore systematically work for a better regulated working life, with emphasis on more permanent jobs, and stimulate professional organisation and reliable tripartite cooperation between the employee, the employer and the public. In the opinion of the Centre Party, no matter is more important for the education and creation of young people than that everyone sees a hope for the future in a safe working life. The centre party is working to secure Norway as a different country in European working life. This requires that we can politically regulate access to workers from outside the Nordic countries. The EEA Agreement must be terminated and replaced by a trade agreement. The EU is an unparalleled experiment, from which we have to throw away before we go down. Euros without a Ministry of Finance are devastating for a safe working life with objectives of full employment. The centre party is not satisfied with the budget of the four cooperation parties. The weakest in the labour market will get worse. The draft budget of the Central Party will provide some 10 000 of the weakest people on the labour market with the possibility of a high-income job. For the Centre Party, this is crucial to follow up the many programmes and opinions to do a better job for these groups. The scope of asylum seekers granted temporary residence permits further reinforces the need for these measures. The central party's basic view is that weak social groups must not be set up against each other. The central party's budgetary alternative is close to 1.5 billion. to these groups in the world of work. The Prime Minister used the term ‘long-term migration’. The term is generally followed up by words that are politically correct but without a professional definition: ‘green shift’ and ‘bioeconomic strategy’. The Prime Minister will not use ‘subsidies’ — a word known in the large employers’ organisations as ‘competitive conditions’. Why? Well, because the Right is ideologically locked to business neutrality. No industry shall be treated on the basis of its actual economic reality. All industries are equally important to the country, after the Right View. In the view of the Centre Party, we do not get better profitability in the work on environmentally friendly products without industries based on renewable raw materials rather than non-renewable raw materials being given strong economic stimulus through new economic framework conditions. Such a break in business neutrality is central and is the whole basis of the successful industrial policy pursued in Norway through history.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2931	I think there's reason to pull some strands back to the red-green rest slice. When one looks back, it wasn't just in research that there was a red-green rest slice. It's said today that there was a big stake in collective. Yes, today a 17 km cross-rail is being completed that extends into Hedmark. Work was started on a double track in Vestfold, but to call it a big bet is to take some action. In Oslo, on the other hand, there's been a huge collective effort, and we've got a bus and tram every five minutes. I guess that's pretty much a revolution in proportion. Looking back at the school health services and health centres, the four games that now run will have strengthened this by 750 million in three years. kr. It is a significant effort. There are still some closed doors, there's still a job to do, but it's a long step in the right direction. In the Health and Welfare Committee, we are now also going to consider a stepping-up plan for the drug field. There's an effort of 2.4 billion. kr over the next four years. There is an effort in the drug field that no one can refer to before. It is a neglected area of Norwegian policy. We have a job to do in front of us, especially in post-protection, and there is a great need in the municipalities. If we go to mental health, we also see a significant escalation. This applies both in years and in effort, and it comes in many areas: rapid mental health care is one thing, several psychologists in the municipalities another, and the fountain houses, which facilitate work for those who have had mental problems, are a third thing – we can get a fountain house in each county in a few years – just to mention some of the areas of activity. I have to get into my own district, the Inland. The oil shadow has been mentioned here, but right now we are probably more on the sunny side of the Inland. A lower price leads to export-oriented travel and export-oriented industry in Hedmark and Uppland actually having useful times. And we have, as mentioned here earlier, a unemployment rate of less than 2 pst. It's important that we have different economic cycles in different parts of the country, because then we're totally not so vulnerable. But it is clear that we are facing challenges also in the Inland. We're among the part of the population that has at least higher education. We probably have a workforce that is right for the labour market we have, but we have to bet on education and conversion there as well. That's why it's important that we use the tools in the green shift there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2946	In the budget proposal, the government mentions a number of bets, including: welfare gap for sick and elderly people and a stronger social network. It is the municipalities that are responsible for realising these investments. The budget we are dealing with today should secure the municipalities a financial basis for doing that job for us. As we deal with the state budget, the municipalities strive to make their budgets go up. We hear daily about how difficult it is – there is no room for new bets, and advisers report heavy cuts. The difference in red-green policy and blue-blue policy is well illustrated by KS. While in the years between 2005 and 2014, the local government sector maintained a VAT growth of 20 billion. Last year we had to cover a tax loss of SEK 2.7 billion. kr. Next year, municipalities are facing enormous challenges of resettlement. We have recently made large additional appropriations for 2015 and, through the addition to the 2016 State Budget, presented proposals for appropriations of 9.5 billion. NOK, but too little of that goes to the municipalities. They are underfunded both in the case of the integration grant, which is intended to cover housing costs, in the case of the host municipality tasks for asylum recipients, and in the case of child protection measures for single minors. This creates considerable uncertainty around the municipalities. I'm glad we've gathered a broad majority on the Stortinget behind measures to meet the refugee crisis. The parties involved in the agreement are now negotiating the integration package. Now it's time to give the municipalities economic space to solve the big problems we've given them. In October, the State Council sent Sanner a letter to the local government claiming that the municipalities are under an obligation to investigate the merger of municipalities, and that he is threatening to cut framework subsidies to smaller municipalities. Once again, there is uncertainty in the municipalities. I understand that's the base grant of probably $13 million. kr to every municipality he wants to live. The so-called investigative obligation of the municipal reform is derived from a majority comment in the treatment of the municipal proposition for 2015. That remark has been used by the government to instruct the statesmen to be the government's influence agents in the implementation of the reform. In the past, government parties have said that the income system should not be used to force through municipal mergers. Now it does anyway. Mr. Sanner's letter to the municipalities is a clear signal in this way. I doubt whether the majority of people will follow these recommendations when the matter comes to consideration in June next year, but the government believes that they have already done their best. When the Storting makes its decisions, the process will largely be closed locally. I think that's all right, I'm afraid. I have been accused by the Right-Representatives of bringing doomsday prophecies when I have said that the government is now working on a strategy in which they will push forward decisions on community mergers by weakening the income of small municipalities and using the County Council as a political actor for their case. Unfortunately, it seems that I'm getting right – the doomsday prophet or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2961	The world has come to Norway — more than before. With the war in Syria, 4 million refugees come along land and beach in Europe, and 8 million are internally displaced – a state that neither they nor we want. At the same time, other wars and unstable states in several other parts of the world are driving people on the run. The refugee commissioner reported that it was a total of approx. 14 million people fleeing in 2014 in neighbouring regions of Europe, and approx. 60 million worldwide, a significant increase in 2015. The challenges have thus also come to Norway, and 2016 stands at the door. For a long time, countries south of Europe have had a high number of refugees, and now, in recent months, it has also increased in Norway. They bring small children to their arms. Who thought that? For the Christian People’s Party, it is important that the solutions now ensure that those who come and have a real need for protection are welcomed in a worthy framework. It concerns the whole chain — emergency reception, treatment, housing in reception facilities and, above all, housing and integration in new municipalities. This is to care for our fellow people, document and use their resources and motivation so that they can quickly participate in tasks, responsibilities and rights. It's doing the best in ourselves. The Christian People's Party is pleased and believes that it is important and right to make a broad settlement to ensure good solutions, and we have encouraged it all the way. One of the most important things we do now is to have a faster return of people who do not have the basis for protection. It's good for those who are involved, and for society, who can give priority to those who will be. This is also important in order to preserve the asylum institution. Groundless applicants can be sent out quickly, but only after a proper legal procedure. We are now in an extraordinary situation that requires much of the foreign administration. There is therefore reason to thank and motivate the UDI and the police to increase their capacity. We have seen that the processing time was already too long. At some of the points in the agreement, we ask the government to come back to Stortingen with a follow-up, and we look forward to contributing constructively in this work. The Christian People's Party is voting for measures and proposals that preserve the best values of our democratic, co-human and legal traditions in Norway. This week the parties started in the negotiations. The situation requires tightening, yes, but equally important is strengthening the municipalities, so that they are able to handle reception and settlement well. For my part, I do not understand the resistance expressed by some in the Progress Party; it must be important to get this right. We know that three-quarters of asylum seekers are now allowed to stay. Then it is essential that we start the integration process quickly, so that this group is well integrated and possibly sustains a part of the Norwegian society. They may want to do the same for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e2987	The workers’ party’s Marianne Marthinsen claimed earlier today that the government does not think of the 127 000 unemployed who face an uncertain time. Marthinsen is wrong. The budget we are dealing with is a budget for work, activity and conversion, which will stimulate the creation of new jobs and help unemployed people to get into work. There is no quick fix in the case of increased unemployment. Measures need to be put in place to help in both the short and long term. This is why the government has put in a short-term targeted package of measures, which will have an impact on employment in the most severely affected parts of the country. The government's ability to have two thoughts in its head at the same time. The ability to think in the long term, I would say, has almost become the trademark of today's government. The message has always been to equip Norway for the future. The government has since joined, been concerned that we have to get more economical legs to stand on and become less oil addicts. This is why the government has consistently prioritised its efforts on knowledge, research and innovation – in a strong contrast to what the red-green government did. Therefore, it is quite sought out when the Workers' Party repeats its mantra that the government is doing too little and is too late in the process of conversion. History tells us that they themselves had neither the will nor the ability to exploit the space they had to invest in the long-term growth capacity of the economy. In fact, the government of Stoltenberg chose to put an open slab into research. Instead, the action space was used for increased public expenditure. Focusing on knowledge and research is necessary for the development of new technologies and jobs. Over the next 20 years, technology will help create jobs we don't know today. In the offshore industry, we already see a trend in which more and more of the work is being diverted from land. There will continue to be a need for employees following safety and maintenance on the platforms, but due to new technologies and the development of new energy sources, the oil industry will need fewer workers. A lot has also happened in the hospitals. On the operating sites, one today must be able to control both the scalpel and the keyboard that controls the operations. Developments have opened up a whole new world of opportunities with the need for new competences. We need people who can further develop the technology, for the benefit of patients. The new jobs and industries to raise Norway must compete and create values in a future of low greenhouse gas emissions. New climate technologies will enable us to develop new green products and services that contribute to reduced emissions and new safe jobs. The government shows that it thinks in the long term about the budget that has been presented. Policy orientation has changed by shifting the use of oil money from operation to action: investment in knowledge, research and innovation, transport and infrastructure, and tax incentives to growth. The government will equip Norway for the future with a budget for work, activity and conversion, which will meet the challenges of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3004	We in the Christian People's Party are pleased to have had an impact on a significant strengthening of the districts in the budgetary agreement with the government parties and the Left in relation to the proposal the government presented. The agreement strengthens the districts by 670 million. kr. We're going to use the whole country, different people have different desires about where they want to live. This requires a district-friendly policy to facilitate business activities and good infrastructure across the country. For our party, it was also important to stop the governmentization of the municipal tax collection function, which would contribute to a centralisation that we do not believe serves the districts. It is important for the Christian People's Party to ensure that this competence is still present in the municipalities across the country. We have an effective tax collection today, and we think local knowledge is important in order to perform this service in a good way. Norway has large resources of timber, which can provide permanent district work. However, the rational use of this commodity requires the infrastructure to be in place so that the timber can be transported from the maximum area to areas for further processing. This is where the construction of timber brands is important. We are concerned that the infrastructure of the forestry industry should be improved. By increasing the grant for the construction of timber brands, we believe that this will be an important tool in getting the timber to the right places. The Christian People's Party is very conscious of the important position fisheries have in maintaining settlement along the coast. The increase in funding in the cooperation agreement that we received in the budget negotiations, 40 million. kr to fishing ports, it is precisely possible to maintain a varied structure in the fishing fleet. We know that fishing ports save lives and provide an acceptable route for the smallest groups of vessels. The continuation of the system of State aid to fishing ports also contributes to the construction of several ports and it discourages the centralisation of the fishing industry. Safe roads are essential for housing and business throughout the country. Therefore, safety must be enhanced on high-racial roads. Many drivers today live with very rough roads, which are a burden on the individual and create insecurity in everyday life. We're happy to have an increase of 75 million. until county roads are secured. Several paved roads can thus be secured and help to restore security to people who have to travel on these roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3015	Both in the draft budget of the Right-wing Party Government and after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the major investments in infrastructure, knowledge, research, innovation, justice and health continue. We in the Progress Party are very pleased that the government has as its objective that Norway should be among Europe's most innovative country. It is absolutely vital that we be able to maintain growth, prosperity and prosperity in the future as well. There is a good growth in the R & D budget – it has a total real growth of more than 4 pst. after the budgetary conciliation. The government is following up all six thematic priorities of the long-term plan for research and higher education. The plan is followed up by nearly 900 million. kr next year. The main priorities of the 2016 budget are the maritime areas, an innovative and adaptable business and world-leading trade unions. The Progress Party is particularly pleased with the priorities of research and development in the next year's budget. Both the TaxFUNN, the User-Controlled Innovation Arena and the FORNY2020 receive increases in their appropriations to strengthen the ability of established and new enterprises to invest in research under their own direction. After the government shift, the research and innovation efforts of enterprises have increased sharply, precisely because of the increase in instruments. That's why it's hard for me to understand why the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget cuts 50 million. kr in the FORNY2020 programme, which contributes to the commercialisation of research results. Norway must be said to be in a difficult time. The fall in the oil price has a major impact on the labour market and unemployment is increasing. At the same time, there is enormous pressure on Norway and Europe from outside. Such a situation requires action and willingness to bet. Both present and future well-being and value creation depend on massive investment in research and education and in infrastructure. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad focus on the building of skills, innovation and value creation, which provides a good basis for growth, transformation and value creation. Research resources are being increased on a broad front, including: the allocation of the Climate Technology Fund has increased by several billion dollars. The Fund shall finance, inter alia: Enova, supporting key industrial renewable energy projects. Furthermore, we see that research centres for environmentally friendly energy, the FME, which brings together the best research environments and business, are strengthened by several tens of millions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3030	Don't we, who? Don't know when now? That's what an American president said. Now is the time for Norway to give a historic promise of relief to Syria's neighbourhood, and Norway must take a leadership role. Should we help the many instead of them? This rhetorical question asked the Prime Minister, among others. to the newspaper in spring. The spring that passed, we heard a mantra from the government repeatedly: Norway could help so many refugees in the vicinity, the money stretched far better to there. But what happened when next year's government budget was added? Then it was the few who were given priority, instead of the many. B.C.E. The government managed to pay taxes. Only 1.25 billion. kr more the government thought that there was a need to give in relief to Syria's neighbourhood. Seven times more in tax relief than in relief may appear to be a strange priority. ‘Without increased efforts in the region, there will be no solution to the refugee crisis’. This hit the Minister of Finance permanently late in the fall. When there is no solution without strong efforts in the vicinity, shouldn't the government support a stronger effort? Today, the world is facing one of the greatest humanitarian crises since World War II. There is now a historical need for emergency assistance for several people who have very little access to food, water, medicine and health care. The lack of resources is so great that, among other things, The world's food program has been forced to cut down the distribution of food. They have cut the distribution of food vouchers to many of the Syrian refugees who live in the vicinity of Syria. In Jordan, over half of those who have received social benefits for food have experienced losing him. The Central Party suggested early in the fall that Norway should take the initiative for a donor country conference for Syria's neighbourhood. The government announced shortly after that it would do just that. But in order for such a donor country conference to be a success, Norway has to go and make a substantial contribution on the table. It's unacceptable that we have a situation where the United Nations does not have the means to secure refugees food. The centre party thinks it's an overarching goal to participate in a society with less inequality, both nationally and globally. This must be a clear objective of Norway's aid policy. For this reason, in its alternative state budget, the Central Party proposes to increase the aid budget by about 4.2 billion. In addition to the government's proposal for a State budget. Compared to the budget agreement between the cooperation parties, the Central Party increases the aid budget by about 1.3 billion. kr. We have to do what we can. I want to ask you, if we don't, who? Don't know when now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3052	First, I regret that I was not present when I was originally to speak, according to the list of speakers. It is not due to drowsiness, but that I took part in a debate outside this house this afternoon. What I have on my mind is that we live in a time of challenges. There is a time of increased unemployment and greater uncertainty. We're going to make important choices now, and those choices will shape our society this year. This autumn we have also seen a large number of asylum seekers who have reached the borders of our and neighbouring countries, to a greater extent than we could imagine. It puts us to the test, not least when it comes to being able to have two perspectives: to pursue a policy based on the humanistic tradition of which we confess and which obliges us to give protection to the persecuted, while at the same time being able to return in a swift and dignified manner to those who do not have a need for protection. Can we hold on to both of these two perspectives in this challenging time, can we ask? Not on all platforms where the debate is spinning out, unfortunately. Then it is important that we in this House hold the ethical tab high when the debate on asylum seekers, refugees, settlement, integration and return comes up on the agenda. Oil money use in the year's budget is missing. The oil fund has now received permanent residence in the lubricating bay when the government is to have the government budget on the keel. It's almost comical that the opposition wants to spend less money than the government. As a health politician, I have to say that despite high-record money usage, the government has not found room for absolutely necessary investments in health in the 2016 state budget, either in terms of health promotion prevention and public health, or in proposals for hospital funding. There is a need for a much clearer commitment to health than that provided in this budget. And not least, the government has to start setting up the budget soon, based on its own statement that it will primarily strengthen the public health system. In other words, privatisation experiments such as ‘free treatment’, which will close resources against the major commercial actors, are the last thing we need in the Norwegian health system. Good health is often about the possibility for each of us to live a good life. The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good physical and mental health for all. This is why prevention among children and young people and early interventions are one of the most important health investments we can make as a society. We want to pursue a policy that combats social inequality in health. Then it's that work to everyone is actually the best medicine for people's health. High employment also provides income that can finance important joint tasks such as education, health care and infrastructure. This is why the budget presented by the government has very few measures aimed at unemployment. The government is running a policy that will increase the differences, while the bill is the next generation that will take. It is contrary to what the Workers' Party wants for social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3065	I thought I'd talk about the two biggest wins of the Progress Party in the budget for next year. The first is the reduction in the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, a curtailment that has been a sort of penal tax for them has endured in a long marriage. You might think it was going to be the opposite, but you're being punished. The rights that have been acquired through a long working life are not paid when you become a pensioner, because you continue to be together. Now I'm going to take an example, a little experiment – since the representative Gahr Støre was in the room, and also the representative Marthinsen, as far as I know: what if you took, for example. two employees of Statoil, who are married and live together, and gave one 100 pst. in wages and salaries, and the other one would get 75 pst.? These people are among those who have the most from before, and you'd think they had enough if they got 175 pst. together? I have not seen any suggestions about it. Or you could imagine two deposit representatives sharing housing, who could get compensation of 75 pst, respectively. and 100 pst. and had some kind of splinter layer. There is no doubt that wholesalers are among those who already have the most. But I'm not sure if it's a good way to go – it might not have been very popular. The second is the tightening up of asylum policy, where the Progress Party has had an impact on matters that we have fought for for for many years, and has been downgraded and characterised and ridiculed. There is no way in which terms and words have been applied to those who have made such proposals and have made proposals in the media, etc. So now there are several parties in the Stortinget that have joined the Advance Party's policy. Of course, it is not enough, it is not exhaustive, and the Progress Party will promote more tightening-up proposals in the future, of course, on which we will challenge the other parties to participate. And then I have to say I'm a little surprised. There's a lot of talk about integration, it's very focused on integration, and you have to learn Norwegian quickly. The representative Tuskedal thought it was very important, because then one becomes more easily part of the Norwegian community. I would like to remind you that those who stay in Norway get it on a temporary basis. They're going home again. Everyone like one has to go home again. That's why you're trying to fight IS, that's why you're trying to remove Assad, that's why you're trying to get to living conditions in Syria. You have five years to do that, and then they're going back home and they're going to build their own country. For who else is going to build Syria, if they're not going to do it themselves? Is it the North, is it the Americans, is it the British, is it the French? It must be the Syrians themselves. And it's the strong who have left Syria, it's the ones who have been able to pay and travel: the young, the healthy, they speak. They are the ones in Europe, while they are the least capable of taking care of themselves, who are left in Syria – disabled, old, etc. Those who are now in Europe must go home and build their own country, and it is not very necessary to have Norwegian knowledge in Syria. But it will be very important to have other knowledge and qualities and competences in order to build your own country. We can give them that, we can give them knowledge so that they can rebuild a sense of democracy, create and build up. That's what we should give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3077	A well-functioning labour market is important, not to say crucial for us as human beings to realize our dreams. That's why it's important to get to work. Equal opportunities are strength, and the difference between people in work and those outside can be great. That is why I support the government's stated objective of a safe and flexible labour market that will ensure low unemployment and high employment. The government will strengthen the competitiveness of jobs and create new, secure jobs. Youth is important. I have great faith in both the youth and youth package the government proposes. It shall discourage young people from falling outside education and working life. However, training and activity will be very important also for those between school and work. The progress party has been talking for many years about the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners who have so far been on 15 p.m. In my opinion, this is money that is stolen from people who have acquired a right, just because they are married or live together. So they kind of get punished. Even though it's cheaper to live together and share the expenses, it doesn't excuse the fact that you take away people's rights they've earned themselves. That's why I'm glad we've now got a majority to increase the basic pension from 85 to 90 pst. So it's going to go down from 15 to 10 pst, and it's going in the right direction. So I'll go a little bit to transportation. Good, safe roads are important to all of us. It is also important to have good, safe roads in the districts. That is why I am pleased that the government is following up both Rv. 9 through East Agder and E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand. Road transport companies are now established and will start their work on selected routes, one of which is the route E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand. This is a stretch that has been taken up from this pulpit year after year. But only after the government change came the money on the table, and the work can be started. I am proud to be a member of a powerful government party. But: It is also important to take care of the infrastructure – not only the one we are building new, but also what we have already built. The maintenance run on the road has stopped thanks to today's government, after decades of delays have only increased and increased. The state budget for 2016, which is now under treatment, will continue to reduce maintenance on both road and track significantly. So finally, the new government and our partners are good for Norway and for our people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3096	First of all, I have to say that I am a little unsure whether I actually heard the representative Tybring-Ged right now. What I heard was a statement that we are not actually going to do integration, that we are not actually going to do Norwegian training for immigrants coming to Norway. If that is correctly understood, it is a mildly to say perceptive opinion of a representative of a government party. The reason why I drew, is that I think it has been a little special to hear the tone in parts of this debate. It sounds like some representatives think it's a little premature for the Workers' Party to talk about leave, not to talk about making suggestions, and that we really, like the government, should accept that unemployment is increasing. We have heard representatives mention the last government period as a carefree year in the Norwegian economy. I recall at least the years around 2008/2009 as relatively worrying. The most incredible thing in my view is a finance minister acting so indignantly that the opposition asks about the size of a package of measures – so indignant that she accuses us of spreading uncertainty. So when we're pretty enough to ask a completely curative question about how much is left of the action package, we make the situation worse and more uncertain for the unemployed. I would like to pay tribute to the representative Meling for actually trying to answer the question, as opposed to both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. But the answer really just shows the degree of confusion among the government parties on this issue, because she refers to the agreement's chapter on work, activity and change. That's exactly right. That's almost 1 billion. kr. But when we see what's in it, we find things like swimming in kindergartens, animal police, party support – things you can be for, but that have little to do in an employment package. Then there are also big, important items there – 320 million. kr. for more teachers in school, e.g. I totally agree! We're going to vote for it, but it's not a temporary extraordinary employment measure. This refers to the additional number – the employment effect of the fact that we are now setting up many asylum recipients. It's also obvious. But if you think that you no longer need an equally large extraordinary employment package because you have such a powerful effect on building asylum recipients, you'd better say it. But it insists that there is still an extraordinary in this budget, but you don't want to tell me where that money actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3109	Norway is not in crisis, said the Prime Minister. It may be, but there are record people in this country who are experiencing crises in their lives right now. I'm talking about the over 100,000 unemployed, I'm talking about the record number coming here to seek shelter and protection. That's who the policy is there to help. And when we're facing so big challenges, we have to spend time solving them, not putting them up against each other. That's why it's almost incredible to hear that the Prime Minister doesn't take the chance to refute that the 200 million. Employment measures in the South of the West were cut to deal with refugee and integration work. When you're 6 billion. In tax terms, it is very strange that the priority is to cut employment measures. We have so demanding problems in front of us that we have to focus on what works. Tax dollars are probably very fun for those who get it, but it integrates terribly little. I have not heard or read a single confirmation that tax incentives create more jobs than policies for increased employment. It's not like landing with 0 pst. Tax is 100 pst. employment. The Labour Party believes that the community can solve our common problems. We believe in politics and it can help. Fortunately, companies are creating jobs, but we have to make sure they are safe. Fortunately, it is not government or greatness that integrates – people integrate people. But people live in municipalities, and then we have to enable those municipalities to help people do that job, and that it should be simpler, not harder or heavier. All priorities that cost but are correct can be explained. But when you give 6 billion. It's not an explanation to say that we have a refugee challenge here, you see, that's why we have to cut employment measures. It's not an explanation, it's a derailment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3118	It's not the government's fault that the oil price is halved. It was not the red-greens' fault either that the financial crisis came in 2009, but it is the red-greens' responsibility that they did not start the conversion earlier so that we were so exposed to a halving of the oil price. I dare remind you that I will not hack into the eight years that have passed, but point out that the legacy of the previous government is their responsibility. Nor is it premature for the opposition to hammer and moan. What I don't think is premature is that you don't suggest solutions, but just describe the situation. What the country needs now is accountability, it is acting that national leadership has as headlines work, activity and conversion, that it recognizes that our policy is up to the exam in relation to the individual and not the systems, and that we are able to have a national policy that carries over time and that endures fluctuations. I have recorded during the day that repeated opposition politicians have just described the situation, how difficult and bad everything has become with this state budget. But I think it is irresponsible when, as opposition politicians, we call for a reversal of the necessary transition. I also think it is winged and not predictable to change opinions in a number of policy areas, as I have seen parts of the opposition do now in both asylum policy and integration policy, for example. Getting people to work before you figure out who they are. Norway is in one of the most challenging situations we've had in years. The oil price has fallen, unemployment has increased, and we have a refugee and migration crisis. Europe is exposed to terror, families and individuals experiencing uncertainty. Then political accountability is required, and a national leadership is required to ensure that we are able to see and do the necessary measures that are just being converted, that people are given activity and work and that people are able to cope with their everyday lives. It can't be surprising for anyone that we won the 2013 elections both on getting new ideas and other solutions to rust Norway for the future. Already then, the Right pointed out that Norway has a challenge with the two-part business community, and the time we are in now shows how right we were. The oil price drop and the need for conversion came faster than we all thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3129	I would like to remind the previous speaker, Mr Schou, that despite the financial crisis, 240 000 new jobs were created in the red-green period. Two thirds of them were in the private sector. That sounds like a change of pace to me. I would like to invite her to my office for a coffee cup and a reading of the Workers' Party's alternative budget. There's a lot of good suggestions. These are the proposals, the measures, we have been asking for throughout the debate today. We have requested the level of a package of measures that the government is unable to answer. There was the big issue in the election campaign, that was the answer in all the debates, and now no one has an overview of giving the Storting. The Minister of Finance answers that this is about re-prioritisation and that asylum inflows have been demanding. When the Prime Minister receives the same question, she says that the level is about 4 B.C.E. kr. She also talks about some repriorities. I don't know if the Prime Minister has forgotten that it was cut close to half a billion when it came to the road, and that only 150 million have been added. kr for railway maintenance. I'll also give Siri A. Meling praise. She tried to elaborate, but I'm just getting more confused, because the government press release package says very clearly that there should be temporary measures, which should be easy to reverse. I'm a little worried when Siri A. Meling mentions the apprentice grant, which is one of the temporary measures that should be easily reversed, or the seed fund of Telemark and Sørland – have the representatives of South Africa come to realize that this is a temporary measure that should be easily reversed? And you're talking especially about increasing teacher's density. Representatives have stood on this pulpit and boasted of the thousands of new teachers to be hired. They have obviously been awarded temporary contracts. The issue from Stortinget has been quite simple: what is the current level of this policy package? We have not received an answer. That is why I have tried another twist during the debate. I have sent the Minister of Finance a written question in the hope of getting clarity on what the package of measures is. It is good if the Storting gets answers, but it is perhaps even more important for those who are unemployed, as the government has promised measures. Only this week have the five major companies in the Rogaland construction industry announced that there will be permits. When they notify permits, they call for action from the government. They deserve answers. They deserve clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3140	Many speakers have rightly pointed out in this debate how long it has taken to arrive at this debate and how much unrest it has seemed to be from the outside. But that's not the important thing. The important thing is that there is a heavy political line in what is going on in the political direction of this government. We see that very clearly in this budget as the Stortinget is now going to adopt – unfortunately – and I pointed out some of it earlier today. I want to repeat something that I don't understand. It is that the government believes that we need great tax relief in order to solve the employment challenges and the transition, but in terms of termination benefits for those who lose their jobs, it must be taxed all of a sudden. What is the political logic of this kind of political behaviour? For the first time in a very long time, you break what is the code of Norwegian politics, and gradually slide towards a society where there is not the same place for everyone. I understand very well that it is a victory for the Progress Party, because they are economic liberals. But that the middle parties are involved in the kind of political gliding and don't even try to defend what they do politically, in this debate, I don't understand. And I wish – it's not over here – that the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left went up and said, well, this is a sensible way to deal with this, as far as those who lose their jobs are concerned, that's right. I haven't heard one argument into my ear that explains it. That's why I say it, honestly and honestly: can't they come up here and explain it, or at least try to defend themselves, when you participate in such a political development? The last – within the time frame – is that this is only part of a large image. The attacks on the Working Environment Act, the rules on permitting, the pressure on sales of Norwegian enterprises and natural resources and the cuts in regional aid for underlying centralisation – all of this – are linked and part of the major project. I repeat: I understand that the right parties do, because they have always done so, but that the intermediate parties support such a government's fundamental political line, is still incomprehensible. I hope that someone will soon be able to defend this from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3149	I record that during the debate one has not received a response to the package of measures, whether it is 2, 3, 4 or 5 billion. kr. What's certain is that it's 1.3 billion. In the Centre Party, we have looked at new measures, new taxes and new features and found that the package of measures is around half. We must expect the Minister of Finance to give a clear and unambiguous answer to that. The difference from January 2009, when one presented the communication and the proposal on the package of measures against the financial crisis, was that there was a package detailing which projects were to be launched and the excavators were in place a few days after it was knocked through in Stortinget. In the throne debate, state councils were called to the pulpit. Let me say that, the debate so far has not been marked by the fact that the pulpit has been swept down by state councils that want to defend their budget. I could imagine that they were here, because I could have wanted to challenge the Minister of Industry on why a distance of 5 billion. kr from Statkraft, why one endangers the wind power plant on Fosen at a time when we sorely need the investments and in advance of the Paris meeting when one would like to have more renewable energy. I would have liked to have had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Agriculture why there is such a lack of commitment to agricultural research at a time when we need to increase food production. I wanted to challenge: what's the government got against 4H, against Spire and against the Builder's Women's Team since a steady and constantly proposing to cut to them? I wanted to ask the Minister for Fisheries: what is behind the government's strong resistance to Norwegian self-afraid? And what is the reason why the government has chosen not to follow the Storting's proposal that we should have a marine fund in place from 1 January 2016, so that the coastal communities that make the land available can have their rightful share? Things just take time, we want answers as to why it takes time. Is it because a worker is late, is it because you don't agree, or is it because a person trains things? The centre party has submitted a budget that gives a clear direction, which has a powerful package of measures, and which points out that we need to put an effort into specific industries and into specific geographical areas, because full employment is the most important contribution we can make in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3164	We have put forward a budget for work, activity and conversion. The package of measures was part of this, and it was originally 4 billion. kr as it was defined. 500 million. SEK of these were to be used for the maintenance of municipal buildings. When the additional number was provided, it was 300 million. Of these 500 million kroner. kr removed. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, 200 million. kr in a way away, but what we've got back in the budget deal, is over 1 billion. NOK, to which I referred. Then, like the representatives Marianne Marthinsen and Torstein Tvedt Solberg, we can discuss the short-term or longer-term effect of this. I mentioned some measures, I can mention more that I did not mention in the previous round, which came as a result of the agreement. We got a further investment in broadband expansion of 75 million. kr – we can discuss whether it is short-term or long-term – we have given 0.75 million. kr to a technical center in Flekkefjord, we're giving 0.24 million. kr for interest compensation on church buildings, the Vigsnes Grubemuseum has received 2.5 million. kr, grant to fishing ports of 40 million. I did not mention last time. All of this was put in place in the budget agreement and is strengthening what we need to be able to characterise as an action package. So there's going to be a little squabbling around whether it's going to be in a package of measures, or whether it's under the heading of work, activity and conversion. Now I understand that there is also a question sent to the Minister of Finance, and then I expect that we will get a thorough overview of this. It would surprise me a lot if we came out with a sum that is worse than what the government put forward in the first place, because we have strengthened and strengthened that line in terms of work, activity and conversion through the discussions we have had with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then there has also been talk of integration and the need for new jobs. We need new jobs both for the newly arrived asylum seekers who are going to stay permanently, given that we are going to create many new climate-friendly, green jobs and because we have a challenge in creating jobs for those who are now unemployed. That's why our focus is on facilitating the creation of new jobs. This is what we need in order to ensure the well-being of Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3173	This debate has been interesting because it has very clearly developed the lines of Norwegian policy, really. Many of the government's supporters here in Stortinget have used their posts to try to tell us that they took over a difficult inheritance. It's creative history. The government's budget has made it clear that the most important thing to do is to give tax relief to people with a good economy. It's the most important thing for society. We've been clear that that's not what we need now, now we need measures that can put people into work quickly, that can put people into work in the long term, and that can help the 127 000 who attend Christmas without work. There's been the difference. It is true, as it is said, that the fall in oil prices is not the fault of the government, as little as the financial crisis was the fault of the previous government – it was international. But the question is how to deal with this situation, when you get a challenge on the guard you're actually responsible for. Our answer is that when we left Europe's lowest unemployment rate, it was because Norway was already a good country at the time. There were 350,000 jobs created by good business leaders and workers in the last period we had government. Of course it was because we were adaptable. I had the pleasure of hearing the Swedish Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, just after he had taken over as Prime Minister. He said – they must be very ambitious in Sweden – that they were going to go to the elections to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. But then they would have realized that they could not say that, they needed the EU's lowest unemployment rate – because it was given that in Norway employment was to be high and unemployment was low. Political priorities in Sweden, which differ from the previous government in Sweden, have now led them to begin to reduce unemployment, just as some other countries in Europe actually have lower levels of unemployment than Norway. It's a question of what's on the top of the agenda, what's the first priority, whether you're working with business and if you're helping those who're unemployed, instead of giving them tax incentives. That's our option.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3182	Ingesd Schou, Siri A. Meling and others talk so beautifully and beautifully about predictability. And they're going to be right -- at least for two things, this government is very predictable. One is to give priority to Right Core Selectors. Norway's 1 000 richest – we have been informed by Minister of Finance Siv Jensen – that is, the Right Core, has received NOK 2 100 in tax bills every day since they took over power, or a tax bill of NOK 768 800 in the first two years. There's a consistent predictability: whether it goes up in the economy, or whether it goes down in the economy, the answer is that those who have the most from before will get even more, because then everything will work out. That miracle cure hasn't worked yet. The availability is higher or the availability is on the way up. Another thing that's predictable with this government is that always when you're going to cut, it's District Norway that's going to carry the cuts. And if there's a tax increase that affects District Norway – no, that's the green tax shift, of course. That's why it's going to be so much harder for people living in, for example. Finnmark, to commute far to work. In the service of the environment, those who have a long journey to work must pay more tax. The worker who is going to drive to the industrial enterprise will get more tax, but if that industrial worker earns a lot of money, he will get less tax. There is no logic in such a policy. The most incredible thing about this year’s budget settlement — or budget wrench, which ended with an agreement — is that you could figure out how to tax people about 60 years of age who lose their jobs, harder. That doesn't mean Terje Breivik is right, or Left. It doesn't think the Christian People's Party is right – that 60-year-olds who lose their jobs are the group we're going to withdraw purchasing power from because it's a big problem for the broad tax base that some companies are involved in a scheme that guarantees some dignity for people who lose their jobs. Of course it's not a problem at all. I don't think it was thought of anywhere. It came in the last hour, and then you have a second thought about how this worked out. Of course, someone in the Right and Advance Party knew what was done, but it's wrong politics. They take away from those who have at least already. Then you talk about predictability. But this budgetary process has been unforeseeable: last year, 10 billion. kr to Statkraft – this year Statkraft is tapped. Previously, in the fall of 4 bn. kr in the package of measures as the availability was lower, now 2 billion. kr in the action package – you cut. Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson says you have to go further. The finance minister says, yes, we're going to tax you harder. So there's no predictability in the policy you're running with, except in a few areas. It is that those who already have the most should receive more, and that those who live outside the largest cities should be punished with all possible means. It's not a policy for the whole country, it's a policy for a few. It is a policy for the Right Core Elections, not for the Core Elections of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3195	These financial debates are getting shorter and shorter, year by year. It may not be so strange, as there is less and less agreement between what the majority parties do and what they say in the debate. It's a kind of soft form of fibers, where it doesn't matter so much what it's really being said, you don't get any answers either – most recently Schou, the representative of a party, Right, who has for a decade opposed any warning as to what the far too high extraction rate on Norwegian pedestal will lead to out of unemployment the moment the oil price falls. There has been no lack of warnings. The representative of such a party is the one who says that those who ran before were not of those who were enough concerned with the conversion. Green Conversion is the keyword this year. ‘Green Conversion’ is the word you can wrap up a humiliating billion-dollar cut to Statkraft with, and it's okay. The Christian People's Party and the Left's spokespersons bite their teeth together and sell record-sized cuts in climate aid as a big victory, since the cuts are, after all, less than the government alone would have. The Progress Party, on its part, is so reluctant to describe the content of its package against unemployment that they promote the positive socio-economic impact of more asylum recipients. When the Progress Party on a whole day at Stortinget meets about migration as a blessing for the Norwegian economy, one knows that they really don't want to talk about the content of their crisis package against unemployment. ‘Transition’ is the word today. As long as one says the word 'conversion' often enough, people may end up asking questions by one moment talking very seriously about the need for increased employment integration, and the next moment increases VAT in the service sector, an industry with small margins and great opportunities for integration. The representative Pollestad called for more government councils in the pulpit. But that doesn't make any difference. When the Councils of State on the day we adopt the framework of a budget, don't even want to answer how much money they actually spend on combating unemployment, and avoid questions about their struggle in the crisis package for South West by repeating the word 'asyl' as many times as necessary, it frankly makes little difference. Then it may not be so strange that the financial debate becomes a record card – there is not so much to talk about. It's not just in the press department that there might be a sluice. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3209	I redraw myself in the debate to link some comments to the article by the representative Tybring-Gjedde a little while ago. I have to say it is mildly alarming when he claims that there is no reason to integrate Syrian flights in 2016. What I heard was that there's no point in it because they're going home, the ones who come today – they're going home again, everyone. I have to say I'm responding to that. It can represent a historical misconception for the Norwegian community. In the 1970s, when labour immigration took off seriously, many in Norway, including in this house, believed that those who came back quickly. That is why not a great many integration measures were taken against this group either. The result, as we know today, was that many people who came to get a job worked sick, and many women who came to work lack good language training today. The consequences of that in the cold water we know a lot about. It is clear that for many of those who come today, it will be their greatest desire once to be allowed to return home and contribute to building the country in peace. But many are going to be, and they're going to be long, maybe the rest of their lives, maybe for generations. Then it's important that we start the job with good integration from day one. This is precisely one of the reasons why the Workers' Party is calling for an increase in the finances of municipalities, so that they are able to deal with the challenges that come with increased asylum arrivals. I have to say that I wonder if there was a deliberate attempt by Tybring-Gjedde to mislead people about what we are actually facing, or whether this was an expression of the attitude of the party's big group on the matter, or whether Tybring-Gedde has had a dream about Disneyland again, to use the representative's own words. This is actually quite serious. For individuals, poor integration can be a disaster with a risk of lack of language, job and connection to Norwegian society. Not least for the Norwegian community, such a position is also very serious. That is why I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance if she rethinks the pulpit, to explain whether it is with Tybring-Gjedde's starting point that the government has planned the state budget and the arrangements for the integration for 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3222	It is a good idea for the representative Tvedt Solberg to send a letter to the Minister of Finance asking what is left of the package of measures. He will be answered that most of it is left, and that the measures will be taken quickly. He will also receive a reply that they have a total of $9.5 billion. kr inserted into the economy through the additional number, will also contribute to a high level of activity in Norwegian policy, which the Prime Minister was involved in earlier today. It is advisable to send letters to the Minister of Finance. I did it last week. I was then confirmed that the budgeting that the Workers' Party has done in its alternative budget with, among other things. the three billions recognised as tax revenue in 2016 are totally unrealistic. Businesses pay taxes in arrears, and it is only exceptional that this money will come in earlier. In addition, their budgeting of financial income is also unrealistic because it cannot be implemented. This means that when the Workers' Party's speakers are up here talking about all the measures to be taken, they have to choose which ones to remove, and they have to choose from among 5 billion. kr to be removed from their alternative budget. That is the reality. They have to show us in this room. They have to come up here and tell me how they budget. That is the reality. Then I think the discussion about the package of measures will be very modest. I'm not going to devalue it, but there's a lot, a lot more in this budget from the Right and the Advance Party that points forward towards the jobs we're going to create in the long term, towards what's going to build the country, through transportation and infrastructure. These are research budgets you've never seen your husband do. And yes, there are also tax reliefs over time. Some of them are actually agreed in this hall, like the corporate tax reduction. There are tax reliefs over time to put this country and those who are going to do jobs, able to get more people to work. That's what lifts people out of poverty — out of inactivity — that they can live off the job they have, that they have something that is lasting over time. We take time to discuss action packages. Yeah, that's good, and it's important right now. But it's much, much more important to think in the future. And to the comparison with the financial crisis, which is the number of the Workers' Party: the crisis we now have, let's call it it, with lower oil prices, is an organic crisis coming from within this country – something we've lived for a very long time. The other thing was applied from the outside, and we could solve it with the soundness that state finances gave us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3231	This fall we have concluded one of the most important settlements of the period, the asylum settlement, but in advance of the conciliation – I would also like to say along the way, in retrospect and today – we see a working party that plays the role of the impatient party. But in reality, we see that it actually tends to what I would call double communication in the field of asylum policy. We see a party that, on the one hand, calls for restraints, effective reception chains and settlements, but on the other hand, has representatives who launch proposals that go in the opposite direction. Now I'm not going to make rhetoric or attack, I'm going to give four completely concrete examples to prove this. Firstly, the Workers' Party has recently launched a proposal for reception that shows an allergy to the private initiative – in the middle of the refugee crisis. In its alternative state budget, in the media and in a proposal, it wishes to provide a firm lead for the right of private companies to operate. What happens then? Then you get a slowdown in the development, and you get what everyone wants to avoid, that more people might have to stay at hotels or emergency accommodation, which the Workers' Party is trying to avoid. But through their proposal, they make sure that there are more of these kinds of reception points. This is a typical example of the Workers' Party, one has an ideological proposal that goes in the opposite direction to what one wants to achieve. We heard a debate here in the Chamber a few weeks ago, in which we repeatedly called for the Workers' Party to distance themselves from their comments that they want people who have not had an identity clearance and have not been given an assessment of the need for protection, yet have access to a temporary work permit. It gave them the opportunity to go back several times, they did not. These are typical examples of something that gives more asylum entry. We have seen a proposal in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget to have competence monitoring within four weeks of arrival. Where, then, will it be of the resources of identity clearance? This is also an example of the fact that the Workers' Party is going in the opposite direction to what they are calling for from the government. The same applies to the housing model. In the newspaper a while ago, we were able to read from the representatives of the Workers' Party about both volunteering and coercion. I now propose that the Workers' Party use Christmas to go through its own asylum settlement, so that this type of proposal can be dropped in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3244	Traditionally, the financial debate – next to the census, perhaps even in front of the census – has been the most important debate in this Chamber, because it concerns the whole of politics, the direction of the country and how to answer the big questions. I hardly believe, in almost 20 years, that I have heard a financial debate that has been about so many small things, so pointless answers, and so deficient signals about how to solve unemployment, climate problems, the refugee crisis – and not least how to develop a well-being that will give all the Nordics a good life. Ingesd Schou said that the most important thing is that politics has as head work, activity and conversion. No, the most important thing is that policies contain work, activity and change. Our fiscal spokesperson, Marianne Marthinsen, pointed out what kind of action has been framed under this heading in the agreement between the government parties, and this clearly describes this lack of direction and the lack of answers. The Steinerskole music line, swimming in kindergartens, documentation for military sailors, museum education in Namsos, Skeivt archive, grant to the Voluntary Shooter Service and cows in the free cultural field: all of these are good in themselves, and as Minister of Culture I could have applauded many of these, but a response to 122 000 unemployed can hardly be called. That is what we are now asking: what will the Minister of Finance, Prime Minister, Right, the Advance Party and the bourgeois majority do? The most important answer is to spend more oil money. They have as their headlines to make us less oil dependent, but they use more in three years than the last government spent on eight. This government came to the covered table. We had been through one of the strongest conversion periods in Norwegian history, there were 360 000 more jobs created in eight years, two thirds of them were in the private sector, and the vast majority were outside the oil sector. Now, in 2014 and 2015, we have received the second highest and third highest level of investment in the oil sector in Norwegian history. Still, the arrows are pointing downwards. Last time we met the crisis, an offensive Prime Minister Stoltenberg said: we must get through with Europe's lowest unemployment. It seems like Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg are saying: we are going to get through with Europe's lowest level of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3255	In my previous post, I addressed this with 2016 that stands at the door now, and the asylum agreement we have behind us. We need to get focus from the emergency measures to look at the longer term. In that context, I said that integration is important. We have to make sure that a person learns Norwegian and becomes a resident as soon as possible. Then I came to say that some people in the Advance Party may be against settlement. I've heard that. Then Tybring-I was engaged in that yes, everyone is going home again – everyone is going home again. I imagine that it is difficult to have a group treatment of these. Individual decisions shall be made by the authorities in accordance with national rules and international agreements as to who will be and who will be. We're going to have a legitimate legal principle about that. I then have a question for the Minister of Finance: does it mean that one should sit idle for five years without learning Norwegian language? It seems to be completely contrary to what I have heard the party otherwise say. It must be in everyone's interest to use the resources that exist there. The argument was that you do not need to learn Norwegian, because everyone is going home again – five years parked in Norwegian asylum facilities. That sounded very strange to me. I conclude by saying that – I am not using my speaking time – I am just happy that the Progress Party has a government council and many representatives who want to address the situation in a constructive and committed collaboration with Kommune-Norway. I look forward to hearing from the government about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3266	It was the last posts of representatives Martin Kolberg and Dag Terje Andersen that made me redraw on the list of speakers. They were in the growing unemployment rate, which many have been in today's world. They also pointed to Sweden and that this should be a good example. But the government has taken the increasing unemployment seriously. That is also why the red thread in the budget is work, activity and conversion. That is why we have made many other measures in recent times, as I also explained in my previous article today. It is possible to talk about individual measures, but at the end of the day it is about what framework conditions we actually provide to businesses, so that they can secure jobs and not least be able to establish and build new jobs. I note that today's draft budget for the Workers' Party is about increased taxes, increased taxes, less road construction, more bureaucracy, increased unforeseeableness. From the Chair, the representative Martin Kolberg was also very clear that the Workers' Party wanted to reverse the Working Environment Act, a work environment law that is adapted to work life in 2015 and the needs that people have in 2015. Would you like to replace that law with a law that is adapted to the needs of the 1970s? I have no faith that it is the kind of action that will secure jobs in Norway, and at least not create even more jobs. So to another theme, which the Workers' Party all day has more or less consistently avoided talking about. I also registered that the representative Martin Kolberg challenged several other parties today to actually be honest about what they stand for, and stand on this pulpit and defend what they promote, and what they will vote for afterwards. Then I come back to the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners: the working party wants, as you know, that married and cohabiting pensioners will receive NOK 8 000 less a year in retirement than the Progress Party and the government wants, and then I think that the Workers' Party actually owes the country's married and cohabiting pensioners that they explain why they believe it is right and reasonable that pensioners should be punished because they are married or cohabiting. I also hope – as I was before today – that it is not due to the attitudes of former Labour Party leaders and former Prime Minister Torbjørn Jagland foreshadowed by this interlocutory in 1997, that it was nauseating to propose increased pensions. I hope that is not the reason why the Labour Party voted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3275	Some remarks towards the end of the debate: I can reassure the representative of Kolberg that there is no gliding from the Christian People's Party in terms of our political line. With regard to the issues related to the Labour Environment Act, the rules of leave, sales, natural resources, cuts in regional aid, etc., which were mentioned: I believe that if you look at both what we have voted through in the Storting before this year, and the budget that we are now going to adopt, it is largely in line with our policy. To take it a bit successively: District aid is increased after the agreement by more than half a billion dollars for different measures – perhaps not exactly as the Workers' Party or the Centre would like, but I think these are very good measures. In the case of Statkraft, we can't have a situation where a company invests completely across what the Storkraft assumed, and assume that it doesn't have any consequences. So what we do there, I fully defend. We, together with the other parties, have amended the rules of procedure in the revised budget. I agree that it should be seen as a dynamic opportunity to change policies if the situation so requires. So I cannot agree with what is said to be a glider. What we're getting is a big investment in what's important to business, in transport: for the first time, we're doing it so that the slowdown on both the railways and the roads is reduced. We have a commitment to higher education, research, school and knowledge that no previous government or large-scale figures have been able to match. And we have a social profile, in terms of both what we do in taxes, and what we do in terms of vulnerable groups in this society. What's positive, when you look at the tax arrangements of the different parties – now we have to have our own tax regime – is that we see a basis for a broad consensus on large parts of a tax regime, and we're going to start working on a tax reform right after we're done with this. We are looking at this in terms of corporate taxation and personal taxation. Interestingly, the Labour Party is also involved in – in a slightly different form however – the step tax, as it is and will be adopted by the majority. I therefore welcome the possibility of creating a broad majority for something as important as a tax reform that should not least contribute to a good business and a good working life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3297	The representative Schou’s use of the words ‘headings’ and ‘alternatives’ was really illustrative. There are alternatives. We have an alternative arrangement that priorities differently, and it has been highlighted by our speakers here today. The point of this debate is that it needs to be behind the headlines, and we recognise some main features and dividing lines in Norwegian policy. We'll get a budget that's all over oil money again. «Adapted challenges», says the Prime Minister, but a large number of experts, who she otherwise takes to revenue for the level of activity in the budget, warn against the rate at which we have spent on the use of oil money, in terms of sustainability and future generations. It's a budget that uses the freedom of action to create expensive and dubious tax cuts. We can understand that when the representative Fleet says that tax relief lifts people out of poverty. I have to say that is a clear text that I have not yet seen documented, to say it carefully. This is a budget that does not equip the municipalities to solve the problems they are going to do: the elderly, the teachers, the knowledge, the integration – all that is important – now have a very tight framework. We have a budget where a notified package of measures is essentially – not because of its content, but because we do not receive a response to the extent of that package. Then it's a fairer thing to say that the package is smaller because it becomes activity out of the influx of asylum. There are not nine billion new dollars in this budget. There's found space of nine billion dollars to the displacement of other things. But there was one thing because we also did not get answers in this area. This is probably a debate in which the Minister of Finance will not decide whether she still believes that municipalities should say no to settle refugees. But since she has signed up for me, it may be the opportunity to get a clarification of it: does she mean what she said on the "Siv Jensen Day", on August 16th in the election campaign, when she encouraged the municipalities to say no? Is there still the Council in today's situation? This is also a debate where we have been illustrated by confusion in climate policy. There will be more expensive electricity on pure Norwegian hydropower and cheaper petrol and diesel. And even from this platform, the debate has taken place on who is responsible for the airline seat charge. It's also an interesting debate the representative of Kapur adds up to. We have a lot of debate about integration here in the Chamber, but he is going to go into the Workers' Party, which has concluded the asylum agreement, while his partner, Tybring-Gjedde, from one government party, is warning a completely different policy, in which all those who come to Norway and are allowed to stay, are supposed to go out and that integration is not a point. That's bad policy. Now we have to look towards 2020. We have once again had a debate where the government in areas where it faces challenges owes itself to what was behind. Towards 2020, we're going to make a big boost to the climate, we're going to have a lot of work and qualification, and we're going to do the big job of integration and get equipped for it. Unfortunately, the budget we are adopting today is not the way to go. There is more of a policy that takes Norway in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3318	This government takes responsibility for ruling the country for a very demanding time. That's why I have to say that I think Trond Giske actually hit the nail on his head when he summed up the debate that it had been about a lot of little things. In my main post earlier today, I was busy just lifting my eyes and looking at the major challenges we are now facing. I pointed to the challenges of increasing unemployment and the need to deliver both on short-term and long-term measures – the main structural policy action proposed, namely the tax reform. When we talk about the tax reform, some representatives have taken the details of the tax regime instead of looking at the whole, to which the tax reform invites. Then I spent a lot of time dealing with the influx of asylum, which is a significant challenge. And that's right, as the representative Gahr Støre says – there's not $9.5 billion fresh for that. There have been tough priorities to find room to deal with an asylum influx that we have not seen in Norway. This is precisely what this is all about: we have had to re-prioritise ourselves to find room to solve the major and important challenges that the country is now facing and that this government is taking responsibility for leading the country safely through. That is why I would have preferred the debate to be more about the big things, but I note that it has not. Then there have been some questions about integration policy. The government announced in the additional number that we would bring an integration message to the Storting before the summer. We are already doing that well, and while we are working on it, there are now discussions in the Grand Duchy on integration issues. I look forward with excitement to what the Storting gathers about. I'm going to follow closely what the different parties propose, whether it's going to be cost-reducing or cost-reducing. It also has a significant impact on the space of action in the economy in the coming years, and it is not unimportant for how we succeed in integration policy. But the government has provided the answers we think are necessary to meet this. What we announced in the supplementary number was that the most urgent thing was to put in place intensive measures to control inflows, the second the need for cost-reduction measures — and then we could start discussing how to put up integration policies in the future. We have to do things in the right order. But I think it is absolutely necessary to raise our eyes and discuss the major challenges we are actually facing. That's what the government has invited you to do. But I agree with Trond Giske that the debate – especially by the opposition – has been about the small things.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3337	The representative Wiborg addressed this with nausea and pensions. Let me at least say that I would have butterflies in my stomach if I, as a FrP, were to be high and dark on pension issues the same year that the Progress Party has provided for the first social security settlement that makes pensioners – as the only group in society – get lower purchasing power. Then I would have stopped at the doors in that question. This has been a debate that seems to end unusually early. I take that as a sign that there has been a rather low enthusiasm among the representatives of the four majority parties. Nor is it so strange when the budget we have to deal with is a budget that bears the mark of four parties that will in completely different directions, and therefore the direction of each party becomes very significant. It is a budget that is characterised by irresponsible use of money, by a vague strategy against unemployment, it has been presented by a government that was unprepared for the refugee crisis, and it has had a strong impact on this whole process. It is a budget that bears the mark of inadequate action against climate change and of an unfavourable policy of distribution – the 'umods' because we now know more and more about the importance of cohesion, trust and economic growth in a society with small and large differences, and it is consistently better when the differences are small. This budget is being adopted, but we're going into a new political year with a majority trying to hold hands as they run in each direction, and it doesn't tend to go well in length. At the end of this debate, I want to follow up Mr Støre's question to the Minister of Finance, because we have promised the Minister of Finance to continue to ask if what she said in August related to municipalities and settlement, still applies. I believe it is important to know whether the Minister of Finance still believes that the municipalities should not settle. It's relevant, because someone in her own government has it as a primary task. I would like to stress that the Minister of Finance chooses the quality in which she will answer that question. It is permissible to answer it both as Minister of Finance and as Head of the Progressive Party. We are interested in finding out both parts, and there is nothing that should prevent her from giving us a clear answer. There's our tolerance great.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3348	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3351	The finance minister spoke about the need to show leadership in difficult times, and I think that all parties here on the Stortinget join, but an important prerequisite for showing leadership is that you are clear, and a party that closes your eyes a whole summer, while everyone around warns against a situation that is on the way out of control, a party that refuses to give more money to the reception apparatus and the police as late as September, a party that puts forward a government budget with cuts in the reception apparatus in October, and a party with a party leader who still does not want to respond to whether she is in favour of her invitation to Norwegian municipalities not to settle refugees, does not run leadership, because one is deliberately unclear. It's not leadership, it's depriving itself of its responsibility. So I would also ask the Minister of Finance to take the floor again and clarify whether it is still such that she recommends Norwegian municipalities to say no to receiving refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3356	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3359	The chairman of the Financial Committee Hans Olav Syversen justifies the cut to Statkraft in the following way: we cannot have a situation where Statekraft invests across the will of Storting. I'd like to remind you that in Prop. 40 S, which was treated in December 2014, there were no such leads. On the contrary, there was an investment plan in force from 2014 to 2018. If it is that one has made this decision in the belief that Statkraft had rejected this project, it is wrong assumptions and very, very serious. This shall be the subject of an investment decision in January, as planned. I ask the Syvers to clarify whether this was a delay, or whether the four parties have simply lived in the belief that the project on the Fosen for Statkraft was completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3368	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3371	The representative Gahr Støre is trying to carve my reasoning that basic investment through how we intend to use the extra oil money – which was meant to be the rule of action – through research, education, growth-promoting tax relief, transport, infrastructure, job creation, people getting into work, and that it is lifting them out of poverty. Shortening this reasoning, I take a great deal of distance from. I also think that the representative Gahr Støre would talk more about oil money. He repeats in his last post that we still spend too much oil money, but he has not wanted to explain in a proper way how the Workers' Party's alternative budget has been set up all day. Let me say it in a simple, popular way: the working party still owes this hall five billion. kr. I'm waiting for the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3378	It's hard times. I understand that the Minister of Finance and the Government think it's tough times. But it also seems to the government that they are the first government to experience demanding economic times. It's not like that. I just want to remind you that the red-green government was through a very difficult and demanding period in the context of the financial crisis in 2009. Nevertheless, it is that the red-green government left behind was high employment, there was a good balance between town and town, and it was also a municipal economy in good order. I also understand that the Council of State believes that the debate is about the small things. It's a dangerous thing to say, that a debate about people's everyday lives is about small things. I would like to say that this debate has been about concrete things – yes, it has. It's been about the cut in the commuting allowance that makes it more expensive for people to get to and from work if they live a bit outside the city. It has been about an airline seat tax that the government parties and cooperative parties have tried to charge as an environmental tax today, but which is a purely fiscal charge, a clean attempt to get the budget together. It has been about a district policy which is still the balancing item in the Right and the Advance Party budget. It is important that we also discuss the very specific issues. I have to say that I also have to ask about the Chairman of the Financial Committee, the Seven, saying about Statkraft, because if what I perceive is that the Seven said, votes, it is alarming. This must mean that the cooperation parties in the Great Britain are not up-to-date on the state power situation. Because it is actually that after State power in ours said they would not invest, they have later turned around, and foreign investors have also joined the team to build the Nordic’s largest wind farm, Fosen Wind. It was intended that an investment decision should be taken in January, and that is the investment decision that the cooperation parties are now at risk by pursuing a completely irresponsible ownership policy, contrary to what they said last autumn, and far from long-term. I must really also ask if a simple fact is aware of what kind of situation Statkraft and Fosen Vind project are in right now. It's a crucial time, and I'm afraid the four parties' actions in relation to the budget are putting the entire project into play. I have to be allowed to ask: when Syversen also says that one cannot allow companies to invest across what Stortinget accepts, what does the chairman of the Financial Committee think about it? According to ownership policy, to which one of them confesses at regular intervals, it is the board that decides the investment decisions of a company. Last autumn we heard nothing about any such requirements related to the investment decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3389	What amazes me after listening to this discussion is certainly how little responsibility this government believes it can take on its guard. It was illustrative that when the Minister of Finance was to sum up these hours in Stortinget, it was the opposition that had not been sufficiently perspective-rich – a Minister of Finance who is so tired of criticism after just two years. And we heard something similar from the representative Schou: the availability is great not because of the situation as it is now, but because of the red-green eight years. That's why the time off is now great. Nesvik says the same thing: the reason why we now get some asylum seekers to Norway is because of Jonas Gahr Støre and the National Labour Party meeting. I also have great faith in Gahr Støre, but that he can set off a whole stream of refugees, I don't even think. The Minister of Defense is talking in the same mood. There's so much wrong in the defense, but this is mainly due to the red-green ones. And when you cancel the climate targets in 2020, it's also due to the red-green ones. When you're so busy blaming your predecessors, and you're much more enthusiastic about the opposition than you're talking about your own policy, then I think you're pretty tired. What we heard in the election campaign was that the red-greens were worn out after eight years. When I hear this discussion here today, I think the government parties seem far more tired after just two years, much more tired of their partners and much less willing to talk to the Stortinget, and primarily concerned about blaming others. We have not received an answer to the big things today. We have not received a response on how to get more people to work, we have not received a response on how to achieve the climate targets, and we have not received a response on how to get better integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3398	I'm not going to owe anyone else – I'm going to take responsibility. The reason why I want to take the floor is the contribution of the representative Gahr Støre, who pointed out a confusion in climate policy with the current majority. He also pointed out that it became cheaper petrol and diesel. It definitely does not with this budget. What gets cheaper, on the other hand, are the options, based on what we've done in the past. We have removed the mess that the red-greens had with the user fee on biofuels. It's now removed, you've now developed an alternative. We make biogas competitive, so you can develop an industry. We've made plug-in hybrids cheaper, so it can also be an alternative, and really an alternative that can be used all over the country, while also facilitating the conditions for electric cars and the future zero-emission vehicle with hydrogen. We're building an infrastructure that it's not the spouse of anywhere in the world. Just when it comes to driving zero-emission solutions in the transport sector, no country in the world is doing what Norway is doing, and so it is the bourgeois majority that is driving it forward. In this debate, the contribution of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party has been primarily a resistance to an air travel fee, and last but not least, it was also a commuting deduction – i.e. the contributions that are just for a green shift. It turns out again that when it comes to concrete proposals, when it becomes more expensive on what pollutes, you are against. It also illustrates where the problem was in the previous government when it came to making concrete climate action, because it really happened almost nothing in the eight years of the red-green set. It was a contribution when it came to a one-off fee, but it led primarily to lower air in the big cities. Now it's a change of pace, now we're running a policy that's driving the climate work forward, and we have a concrete goal, 40 pst. reduction up to 2030. We want to link ourselves to the EU system, which provides a commitment that is much stronger than any own climate legislation in Norway could have given, and which will deliver results that the climate agreement has not given so far. But the climate agreement is solid, much stronger work is required by 2020. The majority had a bad starting point with what we had survived. Now it's a completely different pace. If it is one area where we really take responsibility and pursue policy in the future, it is climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3411	If there were as many people in the room throughout the debate as it is now, we might not have had those statements about what has been said and not said, and that you haven't answered questions. The representative of Torstein Tvedt Solberg continues the story that the Workers' Party created around 260 000 jobs in both the private and public sectors. But, as I said in a previous post: since the financial crisis in 2008, the whole employment growth has attracted foreign labour. This is what LO's chief economist, Stein Reegård, believes has pushed the Nordics out of the labour market, and the fall in employment among the Nordics equals 140,000 jobs, said Reegård to Dagbladet. There are 10,000 more jobs than there are today. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum believes that the government is predictable when it comes to reducing the tax burden on Norwegian business and Norwegian business owners, at a time when we actually need them more than ever – unlike the even more predictable cry of more taxes from the left, I would assume. The 10 pst. the richest paid around 38,7 p.m. in 2013. of all personal taxes in Norway. If we had removed the property tax, which I believe we should, they would still pay 38 pst. During the day we also heard very touching invitations from the representative Serigstad Valen to the Christian People's Party and Left to join the opposition – «Join the Dark Side» at «Star Warsk», or «red-green» in Norwegian. Then I would like to remind you that the red-greens with the tax level of 2013 and the largest economic space have ever left themselves growing unemployment, increased hospital cows, worsening competitiveness, lower productivity, 5,000 refugees with approved residence queues on asylum receptions for residence and 15 000 more poor children than when they took over. I am quite convinced that, even with the sparks that must arise between us, the four cooperation parties are getting better results together. Friction is still a prerequisite for progress, so it promises well for the future. There has been a strange debate, said the representative Giske, about the small things. Yes, when climate tax and commuter deduction become the main themes, perhaps the budget is not so bad anyway. Last year, the Labour Party believed that the government did too much too early and used the ‘uppole, but necessary’ card when there was no basis for it at all. Five months later, the party leader of the Workers' Party did not mention unemployment with one word in his national meeting speech, and the need for conversion was rejected because it has always done Norwegian business. It was only in the autumn that we heard «too little, too late» in the debate. But ever since the government took over, work, activity and transformation with new ideas and better solutions have been a review tone to rust Norway for the future, and so on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3427	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3430	This is going to be a super short talk to honor the representative of the fleet, so I hope he listens. With regard to the effect of tightening the interest rate restriction rule, it is clear that it is very uncertain. When we talk to the top expert on interest rate restrictions, who even sat in the Scheel committee, he says that 3 billion. kr. is a very modest estimate. Probably there's a lot of larger sums when this is fully phased in, and it'll start to have a certain effect first year. So we believe that by adding this, we're giving a realistic picture of how we think the income from corporate tax should be next year. With regard to the levy on financial services, we propose, like the Christian People's Party, to phase it in from 1 July. We believe that this is quite realistic, because the Scheel Committee has already defined the tax base as clearly as they have done, and this is therefore a simplified model. But when I see how the government is working on its own tax proposals, I can express some understanding that they have low self-confidence in terms of their own implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3441	At least the left is not worn out. As to whether we're going to achieve the ambitious targets of reducing climate change emissions by 2030: we've just started. An eight-year rest cutting, as the representative Ola Elvestuen described the red-green government that, was not exactly the great step forward to bringing down the emissions. There has been talk of change in the debate here. Yes, we need business conversion, but there is also a public sector we need to convert, and the red-green period was not a long step in that direction. We can mention, for example: a regional reform. Only in 2018 will the first change come after the regional reform, when Trøndelag becomes one state. So it'll take ten years. I remember a Swedish reporter asking Patrik Sjöberg the question, ‘How wide have you been jumping?’ That regional reform seems to be something like this. Digital conversion we saw and we don't see so many results either. In the health sector, there is now a great job doing that transformation. This is why, among other things: set up an eHealth Directorate. One takes a bigger hold, more state responsibility, to get to a digital conversion. We've had a lot of big misinvestments in public sector data, it's enough to mention Nav or the police. We can also take a trip into the community reform, where it's a little difficult to get what the Workers' Party really wants – before we go to elections, so maybe a little, after we've been through a election, it's not that topical. Here we have a way to go. It's a big challenge. I heard the representative Dag Terje Andersen talking about Sweden. After all, they have made a large-scale investment in renewable energy, much based on forests and wood. What they get out of the wooden stick in Sweden says something about how little conversion we have done in Norway, when we see how similar little we get out of the wooden stick in Norway. It says something about us leaning a lot on the tax-driven conversion we have had in the oil and gas sector in Norway. When we get to inland, we don't have the ability to extract natural resources with the same instruments. We also have a big job to do there. That's why one found nothing but 500 million. kr for symbol placement, of which the forest industry never benefited when it was in crisis. The tweezers were closed, and the tiles disappeared on the way to Sweden. So we have a job to do by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3454	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3457	I would like to say the same to Ola Elvestuen as I said to the representative Skei Grande before today: I have great respect for Left's environmental policy and efforts. But it weakens the environmental issue if one oversells what is now happening. Now there's a change of pace," says the representative Elvesuen. But anyone who's concerned about the environment knows that's not true. It doesn't serve either the left or the environment to try to create an impression of it. The left has made a respectable effort for, among others: to obtain a new fee and a couple of increases in fees. At the same time, we are waiting for the conversion of the car charges. We're waiting for urban environmental agreements. The balance between road and train transport policy is shifted in the wrong direction. We are being cut off from climate finance to countries in the south, and Norway's climate targets are being pushed into a distant future with Left's support. This is not a change of pace, and a thrower of blues in the eyes of people who are concerned about the environment, if one claims that only this is what's going to happen. This is lost time, and it gets more critical every year that goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3464	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3467	If the green shift becomes an excuse on the one hand to give huge tax credits to those who can afford to buy a Tesla for about 1 million. kr, and on the other hand, an excuse to introduce a huge tax boost for ordinary workers who have to drive far to work, we are going to fail with the green shift – if those who have 300–400–500,000 kroner in income are taxed much more, while those who are good at it, are to be taxed much less. That's what's so fundamentally wrong with the former Toten boy who moved to the Oslo center: to think that everything gets so much better if we centralize and add everything to the central stroke. For some of Norway’s strengths, policies have been put in place for the whole country, and those who have to travel long and often have quite low incomes are also compensated for little. It has been a good policy, not a bad policy. If we are to succeed in bringing down consumption and having more green consumption, we must not take those who have normal incomes; we must also dry up those who have high incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3472	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3475	I also thought I would say that the world is very simple for the Left. Then, in negotiations with the Progress Party, they choose the worst-case option of a seat charge that can be obtained. If it had even been a German model of differentiation, if it had even been a fuel tax, if it had even been a tax that concentrates primarily on long-distance routes, if it had even been something that had changed technology, but no: nothing, just a fee on each passenger. And then the left comes with a little bit of such naive notions that they can then take the train. I can ram some airports in Norway where you can't take the train. I think the left must soon see the country from other edges than from the Oslo center. I look forward to a regional reform, yes, a regional reform debate on Trøndelag. I don't think the representative Kjeseth is going to take it completely for granted that it is going to be. This also applies to municipalities, where there are currently 5 out of 448 applicants within the deadline. This also applies to police centralisation, where the fire department now appears to have become the new local police force in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3484	I took the floor because the representative Elvesuen thought I deserved some attention. Firstly, I would say that if the last two years can be described as a change of pace in climate policy, I think, in reality, we are going to be further away from achieving our climate objectives in 2030 than what we are today to achieve the 2020 targets, because it is with respect not to report a change of pace. Nor is it the case that during the last two years the conversion of the car tax and the conversion in the transport sector has started. It has been going on continuously since 2006. It's not like it's a quantum leap, what's happening now. I also think it is a pity that the representative Elvesuen is attacking the Workers' Party and trying to put that picture in a strange light. The reality is that those upon whom Elvesuen relies, the government parties, are the extremes of climate policy. That is the reality. Very often, when initiatives are taken in the Storting, it is precisely with the Workers' Party that the Left meets. There are greater similarities there than there is between the Left and the Government Parties. I am a little surprised when I hear the use of words, and when I hear the pride and self-satisfaction expressed in Elvestuen's articles. If we're going to achieve our goals in the future, it's very important that those outside the government, actually, are able to cooperate, because that's where the focus and the will to make changes to climate change is actually lying. If Elvesu doesn't see it, he hasn't made any real sense in relation to the actual reality of the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3495	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3499	First of all, it's clearly a point that I'm from Oslo. Yeah, I've moved to Oslo and I've been working under city government policy. Oslo is today an internationally leading environmental city – largely because of the position of the Left and the policy that the Left has taken part in. Now it's about getting to the same position that we have nationally. And yes, it's a change of pace. I mentioned some things. Only for the budget we are discussing, we have proposed that all new public vehicles, taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains should use zero or low-emission technologies in the future, and that requirements and measures should be in place before 1 January 2017. It's a huge decision that leads to a concrete change. We're proposing 100 million. SEK to a reward scheme for climate action in municipalities each year for the next five years. We need a support system for hydrogen stations. But these are changes that we need, because we know that it is in the transport sector that you need the largest emission cuts by 2030. That's the goal we're working for. Achieving the 2020 targets – it is difficult, but it is possible, and it is to be achieved – is primarily the fault of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3508	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3511	There's a couple of dozens walking on the pulpit right now. Under the red-green government moved a few hundred workplaces out of Oslo. Tens of thousands of new jobs were created. 75 pst. of them came in Oslo, in Bergen, in Stavanger, in Trondheim and – to Trygve Battle Violence Vedum – in Hamar. Where did the rest of Norway go? The large-scale centralization occurred to the same extent, or to a greater extent, under the red-green government. So coming up and saying that there's a huge centralization now, it's a little hard to see. The taxes on wealth are evenly distributed. In Hedmark and Uppland there are to a large extent small enterprises with fewer than five employees. They really want to use their capital to create one new job there – not one new one in Oslo or in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3520	With regard to Statkraft, there are quite a number of questions that have been asked about the investment power that the company has made. I guess it shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone here. But of course, given the new framework that the company has, it is up to the board to decide which investment plan you choose, adapted to a new financial framework. As the majority writes, we also assume that there is renewable energy in Norway to be prioritised. Then I hope that I have answered the questions I received.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3527	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3533	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3538	SV wishes to vote for paragraph III. 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and paragraphs 1 with the exception of indent No 1 5th@item: inlistbox This is because there are a number of proposals in the refugee agreement that SV is in favour of and that we want to support, but it is added to a voting order that does not allow us to do so. We feel that this is a pity, especially given that all the parliamentary leaders in this process have stressed the importance of the fact that as much as possible of asylum, immigration and refugee policy has been reunited in the Grand Duchy for a demanding period of time. That is why we are asking for the voting order to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3543	Trond Helleland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3546	I am asking, on behalf of the six largest parties in the Grand Duchy that are behind the agreement on the refugee situation, for total voting over III. All parties were invited to the negotiations, and all participated. Two parties chose to leave the negotiations. The agreement is a whole, where everyone has given and taken. That is why we want an overall vote on III.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3553	We then go to voting on this question. So it's not about the material content, it's about the voting order. III concerns the asylum settlement. The Socialist Left Party has asked for the vote to be split up, while the Contracting Parties – all parties except the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party – have asked that it be voted over III as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3567	It is thus the majority of the proposals of the parties to the agreement, and it will be voted over III when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3575	The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Finance of the government's draft government budget and of the 2016 national budget be annexed to the minutes of the meeting of 7 October 2015. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3585	A total of 51 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2 and 5-19, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 20, by Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 35-51, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 52, by Mr Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 53, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 21-34, by Mr Breivik, on behalf of the Left, the debate was held. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 52, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Number in 1000 kroner. Framework Decision 1State administration8 503 1132Family and consumer48 164 4353Culture10 639 2664Foreign affairs45 874 2605Justis28 268 4976Inmigration, regional development and housing22 564 8767Work and social420 928 3488Defence39 885 5129Industry5 093 69510Fiskerry978 54511Agriculture17 697 44212Oil and energy-88 107 89313Environment9 813 75014Constitutional institutions2 513 84315Health178 489 57816Church, education and research69 374 77117Transport and communication57 034 25518Rame transfers to the local government, etc.169 858 38619Simplementary expenditure and revenue4 100 00020Financial administration, etc.27 384 48821Taxes, duties and duties1 065 746 50222Distributionstributions, etc.-34 347 202
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e3801	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35, 41 and 48, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration8 436 201 0002Family and consumer47 968 788 0003Culture10 751 765 0004Exchange43 924 895 0005Justice27 484 477 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing21 495 621 0007Work and social421 380 277 0008Defence42 690 235 0009Industry5 060 778 00010Fischery186 202 00011Agriculture16 723 145 00012Oil and energy-87 443 400 00013Environment7 709 128 00014Constitutional institutions2 518 636 00015Health179 877 623 00016Courts, education and research68 349 097 00017Transport and communication57 177 665 00018Rame transfers to the municipal sector mv.171 799 495 00019Constituent expenditure and revenue4 700 000 00020Financial administration etc.26 882 574 00021Taxions, transfers and expenditures.2 429 029 611 00017 00017 Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose how the government will ensure contact and travel support for prisoners as zones in the Netherlands, as well as build capacity in Norwegian prisons to make the places in the Netherlands redundant, thereby improving the quality of criminal services.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that, in 2016, the Ministry of Oil and Energy will be able to provide financial support in addition to the allocation, but that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Cape.PostDescriptionTotal framework1825Energy conversion, energy and climate technology31Water wind400 million. SEK1840CO2 handling70Gassnova500 million. crowns’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4055	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38, 39, 44, 45, 49 and 50, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a rule-based incentive scheme for film production in Norway.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking, within the proposed increase in police annuals, to set aside resources to establish child violence sections in all police districts.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a case of phase-out of oil and gas under the GIEK and Export Finance schemes and, accordingly, to increase support for renewable investments.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government asks the GIEK to issue guarantees for Norwegian companies’ capital for infrastructure investments, such as renewable power generation and distribution, in developing countries.’; Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conduct a new high-speed train investigation between the major cities of Norway for the purpose of development.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for ‘coastal electricification’ where the development of electric seagoing vessels plays a central role.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4100	There is a vote on proposal No. 47, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to ensure that Statoil uses local suppliers as much as possible’. The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4119	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 37, 40, 42 and 43, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the conditions for grants under Chapter 871 [[equalisation between sexes, etc.]] Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose ways of strengthening the work of Ecocrime against environmental crime in the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: «The government is asked to submit changes to the housing aid to ensure that the income limits and the boute tax ceiling are regulated to cover the actual increases in the boute tax.» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to lay down rules on differentiated employer charges outside the notified scheme which ensure that activities benefiting from the scheme have to use the savings in the given geographical area.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals. The voting boards showed that 67 votes were cast against and 36 votes in favour of the proposals of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4148	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4153	There are then 66 representatives who have voted against and 37 who have voted in favour of the Socialist Left proposals. There is a vote on proposal No. 51, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to reverse proposals to introduce neutral VAT into the public sector.» The Workers' Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4174	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36 and 46, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the establishment of the entire archival campaign on Tynset according to projects carried out by Stadsbåg.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for an own-initiative action to develop the industrial opportunities for the use of wood and biomass.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4198	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration8 243 257 0002Family and consumer46 181 888 0003Culture10 721 611 0004Foreign affairs41 371 004 0005Justice27 943 577 0006Immigration, regional development and housing20 523 556 0007Work and social 417 178 277 0008Research40 323 235 0009Industry4 570 425 00010Fiskerry206 202 00011Agriculture16 709 745 00012Oil and energy-87 844 078 00013Environment7 856 128 00014Constitutional institutions2 508 636 00015Health178 017 659 00016Courts, education and research69 363 697 00017Transport and communication57 816 603 00018Rame transfers to the local sector mv.168 743 195 00019Constitudial expenditure and revenue3 264 500 00020Financial administration etc.26 857 274 274 00021Courts, pension funds and pension account for payments and payments2 233 602 million
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4388	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 6-8 and 15, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration8 113 555 0002Family and consumer47 678 138 0003Culture10 785 481 0004Foreign affairs41 367 283 0005Justis28 418 477 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing21 384 716 0007Work and social421 935 277 0008Defence43 326 935 0009Industry5 142 225 00010Fiskeri196 202 00011Agriculture17 361 64500012Oil and energy-86 959 600 00013Environment7 181 578 00014Constitutional institutions2 543 636 00015Health180 310 959 00016Church, education and research68 403 797 00017Transport and communication58 586 365 00018Room transfers to the municipal sector mv.169 638 310 00019Constitudinal expenditure and revenue3 962 500 00020Financial administration etc.26 906 603 00021Tax, transfers and payments-132 234 262 262 264 616 616 669 00017 00017 00017 Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take the initiative to review the power plant tax with a view to restoring the distribution of the hydropower wealth that a large majority of the population was at the root of the power tax reform.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system for reimbursement of toll costs to the toll companies, with a view to halving toll rates for heavy-duty vehicles.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests that half-way charges be made on the short-haul network.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new health home grant scheme with the aim of offering one hour’s daily activity to residents according to the level of function of the individual. The grant scheme must contribute to, inter alia, several physiotherapists, ergot therapists, activists, music therapists and health home volunteer coordinators.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4599	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 19, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «As part of a major review of incentive schemes for more environmentally friendly packaging and recycling solutions, the Government is asking for a regulation to exempt bioplastics from the base charge on disposable packaging.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the disposal of the one-off grant for maintenance and rehabilitation to schools, nursing homes, churches and cultural buildings.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4623	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to set up a green investment company for the development of technology businesses and return to the Stortinget with a proposal to raise the company’s capital of 10 billion. crowns.’» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4643	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a legislation on the deduction of taxes on the packaging of beverages and on the packaging of one-off beverages.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4662	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 16 and 17 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with a plan to strengthen the Norwegian humanitarian effort in Syria’s neighbourhoods.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘Non-neutral VAT shall be applied in the country and in the health establishments.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to restore a food grain stockpiles.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4691	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 9, 12, and 53, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the installation of fibre cables while building new power cables between Norway and Germany and Norway and the United Kingdom.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests a reduction of 25 pst. in the aerodrome charges for aeroplanes using biofuels.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use the following criteria for allocating increased appropriations for loss compensation to counties: – 70 pst. in additional compensation for losses between 200 and 799 kroner/inhabitant – 85 pst. in additional compensation for losses over 800 kroner/inhabitant. 'Proposal No 53 reads: ‘The government asks the government to come back with an impact assessment before the seat charge for air travel is implemented.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4731	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a change in the practice of entering into a contract with commercial providers of reception services so that the possibility of taking out the economic benefits of owning and operating asylum recipients is severely tightened.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e4750	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration8 344 201 0002Family and consumer46 728 488 0003Culture11 085 361 0004External39 992 783 0005Justis28 274 477 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing20 813 756 0007Work and social421 043 077 0008Defence43 319 235 0009Industry5 093 857 00010Fiskerry208 202 00011Agriculture16 791 145 00012Oil and energy-87 144 600 00013Environment7 320 828 00014Constitutional institutions2 519 636 00015Health180 053 759 00016Church, education and research68 623 097 00017Transport and communication57 603 677 00018Room transfers to the municipal sector nv.169 372 188 00019Constitudinal expenditure and revenue3 546 738 00020Financial administration nv.27 329 774 00021Taxions, transfers and expenditures from 203 287 487 417 000 million
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5120	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5454	The Committee shall then vote on the position of V, XII, XXIII and XXV. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5469	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on XXXV and XXXVIII. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5483	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the opinion delivered by the Committee on XXII. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5497	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of IV, XVI, XIX, XXVI, XXX and XXXIX. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5511	The Committee shall vote in favour of XXVII, XXXII and XXXIV. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5525	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on VI. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5540	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on III. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5554	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on XXIX and XXXVII.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5564	Over II, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XIII, XIV, XV, XVII, XVII, XVIII, XX, XXI, XXIV, XXVIII, XXXI, XXXIII, XXXVI, XL and XLI. The President makes it clear that there is a four in front of the last point in II.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-03.ana.ud1686e5599	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
