ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e75	The representatives Knut Storberget, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Eva Kristin Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. In order to participate in the OSCE winter meeting in Vienna, an application has been submitted by the Group of the Progressive Party for leave to the representative Tor André Johnsen on 18 and 19 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Hege Jensen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e110	The representative, Martin Kolberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e113	On behalf of the representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Jette F. Christensen, Jan Bøhler, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Abid Q. Raja, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I promote a proposal for a representative to set up a large-scale review commission to assess the conditions surrounding the Scandinavian Star disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e118	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e121	On behalf of the representatives of André N. Skkelstad, Ola Elvestuen, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on new measures for more humane care.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e126	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e142	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e149	The draft representative states: ‘The government is asking for guidelines to be drawn up by the government to ensure that the defence interpreters used in Afghanistan from 2006 until November 2014 are granted a work permit in Norway.’ In the document, the proposers also point out that these interpreters are in danger of life because of the mandate of the Norwegian defence. Proposalers also point out that a lack of willingness to protect Afghan interpreters will affect Norway’s ability to recruit this type of staff in the future. This is not a matter of asylum policy, but a matter of protection for military personnel of foreign origin who have been crucial to Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan. Several countries have ensured the combat interpreters stay after finishing duty. I would also like to refer to the document which describes the proposal that has been put forward. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the entire Cooperation Committee, and I would also like to thank you for the response from and cooperation with the Government. Refusal of residence for the combat interpreters was given during the previous government. This was rejected by several of the proposers, among others. SV and the Center Party, who were in and gave these rejections. As the rapporteur of the case, it is worth noting that the majority and the committee have shown themselves by giving those who have been refused a new opportunity to apply for a stay, and that they are individually assessed, irrespective of where they may be located, and where the mailbox may be. The Committee stresses that the institution of asylum is a very important tool for providing protection to people who are genuinely threatened and must not and must not be abused in any form. I would also like to point out that Norway has to fulfil its obligations and help refugees. Asylum status shall be granted after individual treatment and careful evaluation of the application. A Joint Committee shall state that Norway, as a nation, is responsible for ensuring the defence personnel before, during and after their mandate. This also means providing protection to non-Norwegian veterans who have served the Norwegian defence. Norway, by our involvement in Afghanistan, has recruited, among others. local combat interpreters. These have been necessary in their work to enable the Norwegian defence personnel to do their own important and primary work. It is essential that Norway handle such applications for protection and, where appropriate, asylum promptly in a correct and individual manner. In this context, treatment modalities and processes may also affect the possibility of recruiting such staff in the future. The Committee has also noted that the government has continued the special scheme for local staff who have worked for Norwegian forces and Norwegian police in Afghanistan. The special scheme was launched in 2012 by the previous government and means that these personnel can apply for protection in Norway while they are still in Afghanistan. This proposal proposes that the combat interpreters who have worked for Norway from 2006 to 2014 should come to Norway. The same has also been said by the Swedish Federation of SIOPS and various defence associations. Because locally employed personnel who have worked for Norwegian forces in Afghanistan may be at increased risk of persecution, the Committee, as the government does, underlines the need to facilitate their testing of their protection needs. We have noticed that both this and the previous government have arranged for those who have worked in this situation in Afghanistan to apply for residence in Norway when their employment ends. So far about 125 cases have been dealt with — roughly equally between interpreters and ‘house staff’. 23 interpreters have so far been granted a residence permit in Norway. Together with accompanying family members, there are about 70 persons. These are the numbers and applications from what is referred to as ‘round 1’ for the withdrawal from Faryab. The interviews took place in 2012, the proceedings in 2012–2013, and the rejections were granted in February 2013 by the government of Stoltenberg II. A total of 35 interpreters were rejected. There are still pending applications and the Committee is very clear that the legal certainty of the interpreters and the fundamental national interests in dealing with such cases need to be strengthened. The aim of such a change would be to lower the threshold of residence for these interpreters. And that's assuming you have to apply, and that it's an individual treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e186	Let me start by joining in the opinion of the rapporteur of the good cooperation that has been in the matter. It has been important for the Committee and all the members of the Committee to contribute to a rapid examination and decision on the matter. It is, of course, linked to the developments that have taken place and to the fact that the combat interpreters we are talking about are experiencing a much worse security situation in Afghanistan. The case arises because local staff have provided services to Norwegian forces that have operated abroad. The security situation as it developed after we withdrew and left Afghanistan has put us at risk on the basis of and directly linked to the fact that we have been there and that the interpreters have done a job for us. It has therefore been important for the Norwegian authorities in the past and remains important, as a unanimous committee expresses it, that provision should be made for the protection of those who have worked for Norwegian forces in Norway if justified. Then it is probably not right, as the rapporteur said, that it is the Centre Party, SV and possibly the Workers' Party that gave the rejections in the previous period to those who did not receive asylum. It was the foreign agencies that did it on the basis of the guidelines that actually exist. The Committee then points out that the guidelines and special arrangements established under the previous government have also continued under this government. But because of the change that has occurred in the security situation, it has not been good enough in the way it has evolved. Let me be clear: as the Committee expresses it, the intention is to ‘lower the threshold’ for the combat interpreters and to facilitate the possibility for them to obtain asylum. Yes, this is an asylum matter, but it is not an ordinary asylum matter. There are other and special criteria attached to what I was talking about initially, that there are people who have provided services to Norwegian forces abroad. We as a nation have a responsibility to take care of those who provide services for us abroad. It's related to the consideration of these people and the situation they live in, it's related to our ethical and moral duty to clean up after us, and it's of course also about the conditions under which we should be able to operate abroad in the future. There must be a concrete individual case-by-case assessment in assessing these combat interpreters. The essential thing is whether or not there is a need for protection. However, the Committee is in agreement on the basis of the information provided, inter alia: it appeared in the consultation on the safety situation that there should be a ‘low threshold’. There is also a situation here which needs to be highlighted in relation to those who may come: a safety assessment must be made as to whether it is desirable and possible to allow everyone to stay. However, any such refusal shall be based on ‘special and burdensome reasons’ and primarily on safety assessments by the appropriate authority. It is essential that the government, when drawing up the guidelines requested by the Stortingen, find a solution to enable combat interpreters, irrespective of their place of residence, to apply for a residence and work permit under this scheme. It is particularly linked to those interpreters who no longer find it safe to stay in their own country and, for example, to live in them. may have fled and now resided in neighbouring countries. The Committee has also expressed broad agreement with the Minister of Justice in what he has said in his letter to the Committee, namely that a review of the existing legislation on how to deal with locally employed personnel in international operations should be carried out. We believe that it is important to put in place new guidelines for local staff, interpreters and other personnel, who need protection on a mission basis, and the Stortinget also asks the government to establish such guidelines as soon as possible. I am sure that the government will establish guidelines that will prevent us from having to face similar situations – at least we will try to avoid them – and, of course, will inform both the Storting and the rest of the world about what the guidelines look like when they are completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e209	The Progress Party believes that it is important and necessary to ensure the safety of people who have contributed to the mission of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. It is important to show that Norway, as a nation, is responsible for ensuring the defence personnel before, during and after the mission. This also means providing protection to non-Norwegian veterans who have served the Norwegian defence. However, it is essential that such protection be provided after individual treatment. We can imagine situations where, for example, former local employees choose to counter the Norwegian military effort after the end of their service, and therefore fundamental national interests are also very important in this context. I am pleased that people who risk their lives for Norwegian forces, as a combat interpreter, are now being given the opportunity to seek security in Norway. The Committee has proposed that there should be a low threshold for the granting of a residence and work permit for that group and that any refusal should be based on specific and burdensome reasons. It is also not strategic to leave personnel with detailed and in-depth information on Norwegian strengths in a situation where they may be subjected to torture or persecution. Norway has traditionally been too poor to care for its veterans, and the state has many human tragedies to its conscience. For the Progress Party, it has therefore been very important to listen to the veterans, people who have risked their lives for Norway, and the recordings they have had. It is therefore difficult to count when the Joint Organisation of the Order, the Federation of Veterinary Union SIOPS, the Association of Norwegian Officers and the Association of Reserve Officers are clear that combat interpreters should be given a simpler way of protection after the end of their service. It is positive that a Joint Committee has chosen to listen to the opinions of the Veterinary Environment in this matter. I would also like to mention some aspects of this matter that are important to us in the Advancement Party, and that is that in the future we must not get into such a situation as we are today, as a result of coincidences. It is clear that many of these interpreters and local staff have come into a very difficult situation. They were not intended to participate in combat actions. Therefore, it is necessary for Norway to be clear on what is the mandate of those who are considered locally and on what kind of mission they are to participate in. It cannot be the case that there are coincidences that determine who are in Norwegian uniform, get Norwegian weapons and participate in battle on behalf of Norway. That is something that has been wrong, we believe, in this case, namely that people who were initially not to participate in combat actions have nevertheless come into a situation in which they have participated in combat actions, and then it is not right and reasonable that they should bear responsibility for it and take all the consequences themselves. We must not forget that very many of them are young people, young people who have been in a situation where their lives and health are at risk. Then we can not just leave all responsibility to them, then we also have to take our share of responsibility and make sure that they have the security they deserve for the effort they have made. Therefore, I also believe that it is an important part of this matter that Norwegian defence is given much clearer guidelines and practices on how to engage local employees, what kind of actions they are to participate in, and is more aware of how to deal with that kind of situation. We also see that other countries that have operated in Afghanistan and elsewhere are much more conscious, and they have much better agreements and contracts for when local employees are allowed back. It does not create misunderstandings, and it makes both parties aware of the nature of the risk they take when they say yes to participate on behalf of those nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e224	It is very important for the Christian People's Party to be involved in rectifying things that can be better – even in these conditions that we are away from here, where the Norwegian defence has participated in the international obligatory service. Then the need for local knowledge has been very great. I think the very concept of ‘combat interpreter’ is telling the truth in the situation we now have, and I was personally surprised that this was not already caught up in the regulations and arrangements of the Defence. I would therefore like to say that the Swedish associations that have provided this information should be very grateful for what they have contributed to. They have put the spotlight on a serious situation, where we have a moral obligation to clean up after us. These combat interpreters today have a considerable need for protection. I don't know where they are, there could be different places. That is why I am pleased with the solution that lies here, where the government is asked to adopt a system that allows the combat interpreters to apply where they are. So this isn't a normal asylum case, but it's a clean-up after military personnel have gone into Norwegian uniform, and participated in the same line as our soldiers in service. It is very important that these regulations – the system that comes now – take into account that similar things can happen in the future. It must be clear which part of the staff can be included under this heading. We know that there are also other people locally related to these actions, and so we can get a similar discussion. I assume that the government will come up with regulations that take that into account. Otherwise, I agree with what the rapporteur has said, and I am very pleased that the committee is so unanimous in this matter. But I have to add something about the comment from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, because the proposal from SV is that the combat interpreters have to be brought here. In retrospect, you can see that the Christian People's Party and other parties have not been involved in that solution. Then I can say that from our side we have not undergone a spin-off, it has always been a clear agreement that we should deal with the application as it is now proposed. But it's because of a misunderstanding in our party, where we may have helped to confuse. We have not changed our position, we are insisting that the application should be dealt with where they are now, and that it must be carried out as quickly as possible. That is why we are pleased that an overall committee has actually achieved a result that will improve the situation for those who have risked life and health for Norwegian troops.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e241	First of all, I would like to thank the entire Committee for its good cooperation during the examination of this matter. I am very pleased that the battle interpretation case ends with decisions that are fully in line with the proposals I made to promote in the proposal for a representative. Provided that the Stortinget joins the proposal in the election later today, we have ensured that the government is now preparing guidelines that will allow the fighter interpreters the Defense used in Afghanistan to obtain employment and residence permits in Norway. It is far from a tradition that Document 8 proposals are followed up by unanimous decisions in the Stortinget. When this happens in this case, it is because it is so obvious that the guidelines to ensure the protection of combat interpreters after Norway withdrew from Afghanistan were not good enough. For me, this case is more about how we take responsibility for personnel who have served Norway than about the institution of asylum. It is the defence minister's case as much as it is the case of the Minister of Justice and the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, as much as it is the responsibility of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The launch of Faizullah Muradi opened our eyes to how bad it gets when personnel who have served Norwegian forces at their own risk do not obtain protection according to the rules we have so far had in Norway. I would like to commend the veteran and commanders' organisations who have spoken the case of the combat interpreters and expressed their solidarity with them in the same way as their Norwegian counterparts from the Afghanistan mission. The consultation carried out by the Municipal and Administrative Committee revealed that the safety situation of interpreters working for Norwegian forces has been very difficult and has been further exacerbated in recent times. We know that many of the combat interpreters involved in residence and work permits in Norway are either on the run in their home country or in other countries. It underlines the need for their cases to be dealt with promptly. We have no time to lose. During the time we have had the situation of the Afghan interpreters in this country, we have changed the picture of their role in these operations. The term combat interpreter is an expression that these are people who have participated in the field with weapons and uniform. It has been no longer than in October 2014 that the Minister of Defence, in his answer to questions from Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, said: ‘The contract of employment and the regulations in force assume that local staff shall not be uniformed, permanently armed, or shall be considered as members of the armed forces of Norway. These basic conditions contradict the inclusion of local employees under the concept of veterans.’» So we now know that regardless of what has been in the contract of employment, a large group of interpreters have taken direct part in the operations of Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. There is a need for the Ministry of Defence's political leadership and the military leadership of the Ministry of Defence to draw up guidelines that are proportionate to the practices that have been followed, or, alternatively, for the practice of armed and uniform interpreters to cease. The latter is probably not that simple when interpreters are to participate in sharp field assignments. I refer to II in the position, where Stortinget asks the government to establish guidelines as soon as possible on how local employees interpret and other personnel should be cared for in connection with foreign operations. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has delivered an opinion on the suspension of the Committee on Municipal and Administrative Affairs. In both committees, the parties behind the proposal for a representative, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the SV, stress that the combat interpreters are in a difficult situation and can easily be identified. It is therefore important to clarify quickly the applications for a residence and work permit. An overall committee endorses the assumption that the new guidelines which the government is calling for must ensure rapid treatment and establish a low threshold for the granting of residence and work permits. We believe that a concrete, individual assessment of the individual applicant is necessary, but emphasises the need to promote applications where the individual is located – whether in Afghanistan or in neighbouring countries. The centre party will not vote in favour of the SV minority proposal that the combat interpreters be guaranteed the right to come to Norway for their application to be dealt with. However, we refer to our remark in the opinion of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, where the government is asked to find a solution that ensures the security of the interpreters also during the application and processing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e268	It is gratifying that there is a unanimous committee in favour of the proposal for a representative, which we in the Left and the undersigned have also participated in. As also several were in the beginning – not least the case rapporteur – this is not a matter of asylum policy first and foremost; it is a matter of personnel who have served us abroad in the military, and not least in a very demanding situation. So these are staff who have been in a sharp situation, and then it is also important that we have new guidelines, such as: This has to be at a low threshold for individual treatment. It would be clearly unreasonable for us as a nation to leave personnel who have been in a sharp situation. It would, in my opinion, be both an ethical and moral dilemma, which I do not like, and the uncertainty of the staff who will then remain in their country of origin will be very demanding. This applies primarily to the case of Afghan combat interpreters, but that we can get up in similar situations later, may be probable. That's why it's important that we now put in place guidelines that capture this for the future as well. For my part, this is primarily about defence and security policy, and then it is important that we also take on the necessary moral obligations. But it's also clear, as the representative Keshvari was in, that once they've participated, they've also participated in getting information, which would be demanding if this were abused in other situations. As the representative Tuskedal was inside his post, there has probably been a slight misunderstanding in connection with the fact that there should also be a round in foreign countries, so we are not going to support SV's minority proposals, but we are going to be on our original proposal, which is in the committee. I would also like to thank the Committee for a good and relatively quick treatment of this and, in particular, the positive contribution that the Minister of Justice has made to this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e281	This matter is about protecting those who have set up Norwegian forces in sharp operations, both before, during and after missions. SV is very pleased with the initiatives we took, and that we later got several parties to find a solution to this matter. But I have to say I'm a little surprised that it's the municipal and management committee that's sitting here today, and that it's the Minister of Justice who's sitting here today. It should be the Foreign and Defence Committee, and it should be the Minister of Defence. This is a matter in which it should have been settled, and it should have been done before, but I saw no one who took the initiative in this, and therefore we needed it. It was the case of Faizullah Muradi that made me aware of this relationship, where Norway was not only allowed to protect, but also used the Dublin Regulation to push the absolute responsibility of Norway for people who have been put at risk because they have served us, to another country by sending him there. I would first of all like to commend the Veteran Federation and the various officers who have been involved in this matter and have not given up, because they have pointed out what we should all have seen before. That is why I am very happy now because we are finding a solution to this, which is not an ordinary asylum issue, but is a separate arrangement, a separate arrangement for these combat interpreters. I have read their contracts, and there is no doubt that they have a title called combat interpreter. As Mr Greni said, it was until October that the Minister of Defence here in the Grand Duchy said they should not carry any weapons or uniform. They've proved it. That's what everyone who's been there says. It can be found on tape, and it can be found on images. Anyway, we've had to do this for a very long time. Here you have to deal with reality, and not what's on a paper. And the reality where there's war is that there's a need to act faster than we've been able to do in this case. I am very happy that you now need an individual assessment. Of course it's necessary. I know that there are different types of safety risks associated with individuals. Everyone is aware of that. The reason why SV believes that we should make such an assessment and let those to whom it is not related to such a safety risk come to Norway during the handling of the matter, is that they have now lived in a constant risk of life and have been on an internal flight for a very long time. I fear that the identification that is now being made in the process of submitting an application may increase the risk. That's the whole reason. That is why, of course, the government now has a very great responsibility to get this system going quickly, so that this does not take time. We've all been involved in some of the enquiries we've received from some of these interpreters who are on the inside in, for example. Turkey, living under completely unworthy conditions. Of course, more than we know who they are, and that they are under sharp threats. I am very pleased that the Storting now unanimously also says that we must find arrangements for this in the future. It is the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence's responsibility to find it, for this cannot be treated as ordinary asylum cases. These are not ordinary asylum matters. The need for protection may be similar, but it is about people who have served Norway. Then you can discuss whether to use the term "Norwegian veterans" or not. I'm at least recording that the Veteran Federation and the Officers' Associations mean it. Then I think that is how these combat interpreters work in practice, which must be absolutely crucial to how we deal with this afterwards. In the end, there will now be a round of lines here at the end, but I ask the Minister of Justice in particular to set out the timetable for this work now, because it is urgent. I take this up with the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e298	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e301	First, let me thank the rapporteur and the committee for their very good cooperation in this matter. It's been important, and it's given a very good result. As is known, the government has continued the special scheme of the Stoltenberg II Government for local staff who have had a direct employment relationship with Norwegian forces and police in Afghanistan from 1 January 2011 onwards. In addition, the Ministry of Justice and Defence sent an instruction to the underlying agencies on 1 July 2014 that persons who have worked for Norwegian forces in Afghanistan and who are seeking asylum in Norway should have their application processed here. This shall be done irrespective of whether he or she has resided in another country covered by the Dublin Regulation and irrespective of the date of employment. Former local staff are thus guaranteed individual treatment of their applications in Norway. As I wrote in my letter to the Committee on 8 January this year, the government believes it is important to care for interpreters who have been particularly exposed in the light of their work on the Defence or other Norwegian authorities, as mentioned in the proposal as a fighter, and it is therefore appropriate to amend the guidelines adopted by the previous government. Now that the Committee has clarified that it is based on individual consideration of matters, I believe that there is consistency between what is proposed and what is the government's view. The new guidelines will facilitate the fact that all issues relating to interpreters that have been particularly exposed in the light of their work with the Defence or other Norwegian authorities — in the proposal referred to as a combat interpreter — from 2006 onwards should be dealt with if requested. This also applies to cases where it has previously been rejected. The new guidelines will also facilitate a low threshold for residence. I would like to stress that in the work on new guidelines it is necessary to find solutions to some practical challenges, as I have also mentioned in my letter to the Committee. This will be linked, for example: for the verification of the duties and responsibilities of each applicant, the conduct of interviews, etc. With regard to the Committee’s recommendation to provide guidelines as soon as possible on how to interpret local staff and other staff in the context of foreign operations, I point out that the Ministry of Defence has established guidelines on the use of locally recruited personnel for future international operations. An assessment of the presence of locally recruited personnel in Norway as a result of the job they have done for Norwegian forces will be part of the assessment of the applicable legislation to be undertaken by the Ministry of Justice and Defence in cooperation with, inter alia, the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Ministry of Defence. With regard to Andersen's questions relating to propulsion, it is important for us that this is put in place quickly. Work is already under way in the department. Although no final date has been set, this is a priority work in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, also to ensure that the matters currently under consideration are dealt with under the new guidelines. With regard to residence, the Foreign Affairs Act will be the basis of residence, and that is why the Minister of Justice and Defence is here today, not the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e322	It is good that Stortinget agrees, but I find no reason to celebrate until I am sure these interpreters are safe in Norway. That's why I'm concerned about how fast this system can get in place, and how to interpret the concept of low-threshold stays within today's rules. The Minister of Justice said in his statement now that this is within the framework of the Foreign Affairs Act. But the Storting has explicitly said that here it should be «low threshold» and that it is the exception that you cannot stay. Can the Minister of Justice explain a little about this context and how he views this? Could he be a little more precise about how progress should be, and assure that the mission that the Storting now unanimously gives to the government is understood so that this should not be a system where the threshold becomes too high, and where the exception is that you get to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e329	I believe that everyone is behind the intention of this proposal. The decision that is taken is, of course, crucial to the work that the government is going to do on this, and that means that the threshold is going to be low. However, the basis for a home stay today is the Foreign Affairs Act, but there will be a specific legislation that will apply to what is considered to be an interpreter of the struggle in this proposal. When it comes to propulsion, I just don't dare to give an end date, except that the work is already going on in the department and has a very high priority. We have to do what we can to ensure that this is delivered as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e336	We have to follow up on this. I also hope that the Minister of Justice shares that view that we are not in the target at all until we know that these are people who are safe. But the other state council said in its post, which I was stunned over, was: It seemed as if the Ministry of Defence already has an existing legislation for this type of staff that will apply in the future, and that rules have been laid down for this. Does this mean that new rules have been laid down that are in line with what the Great Government now decides – that it has done so in advance – or is it such that the government perceives that the mission has already been carried out? Then I think it's against what Stortinget believes it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e343	It's important to separate here. The regulations governing the use of local persons in the field of defence are those which the Ministry of Defence will lay down. In the case of the basis of residence for, inter alia: what is considered to be a combat interpreter is the Ministry of Justice and Defence which is now to work on the guidelines. There are then two different parts of this. But, of course, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence cooperate well on this, not least because there is information from the Ministry of Defence that will largely underpin the assessment that can be made by the Foreign Administration when the new legislation for, among other things. Fight interpreters are clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e348	It is possible that I have problems understanding what the Minister of Justice is saying now, but now I am dealing with the last point of the Committee's unanimous proposal and what will be decided. I am aware that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, but I need an explanation of what the Minister of Justice is now saying, for as far as it can be seen, it can be seen that the Ministry of Defence already believes they have a good enough code, while the Stortinget believes that there must be a regulation on how to deal with this in future operations in a different way from what you have today. This is not only about the internal legislation currently in place, but also about how to recruit and ensure the protection of specific personnel in the future, which are in special situations where protection is required after-care.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e353	Yes, until it is just to say that it will of course follow up the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e358	An overall committee has been committed to a speedy procedure in order to have the individual cases settled quickly. We all agree that these are exposed to a very high risk during the trial period. Some of them are on the run in Afghanistan, and some of them are on the run in neighboring countries. How will the Minister of Justice follow up the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee's comments on the need to safeguard the security of these persons during the application phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e363	What is the starting point of the foreign administration is that we must first receive an application that can then be properly processed. First of all, we need to put this new legislation in place – we will do what we can to get it in place as quickly as possible. So it might be that some of the applicants will still be in some kind of risk situation during the search period. Therefore, it is important that we also have an effective procedure to clarify whether or not to stay as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e368	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e373	«The price of greatness is responsibility» is one of several wise words from Winston Churchill. We are gathering today to make sure that Stortinget takes responsibility for something we are responsible for. Through their efforts for the Norwegian defence, interpreters have lit both Norway and their own country. They did a necessary, important and valuable job in Afghanistan. The defence was dependent on being able to communicate with the local population, and without the interpreters, this would be very difficult. There is no doubt that the interpreters have been an important part of the defense. The interpreters participated, among others. in dispute documents in Norwegian uniforms and received training in the use of weapons by Norwegian soldiers. There is a great danger that the interpreters will be aware of and subject to commitment for their time with our defense. Allowing interpreters to work and stay in Norway is not about changing our asylum policy. Today we are discussing whether to take care of those who have made an honorable effort for our country. Through an interview, VG provided insight into how some Taliban warriors thought about the interpreters: The international forces cannot work in Afghanistan without the help of the interpreters. So we look at foreign soldiers and Afghan interpreters as one, said a Taliban spokesman to VG. We are very eager to get interpreters to punish them. If we get hold of an interpreter, we'll choke our throats or we'll hang him. How do we suppose that every day will be interpreted by Norway now? How can they take care of their family? Will interpreters ever know that a person they love will be safe? Failure of interpreters could have consequences for the Defense even at later times. Who wants to end up in a similar situation? What should we say the next time we need interpreters, if we should now refuse our previous addition of the protection they need? There is no doubt that these people are not safe in Afghanistan. Nor is there any doubt that this is the reason they have served Norway. Therefore, there is no doubt that Norway has a responsibility to bring the interpreters into security. The only thing to do now is to do what the Stortinge does today, simply to ensure that the combat interpreters are able to handle their applications for work and rest in Norway quickly. When it comes to the observation of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, in which the Central Party was also in, it is an incursion. The centre party has always been behind the agreement that has been concluded, and the handling that has been done is fully in line with the intentions of the representative proposal. I'd like to commend the Municipal Committee for a good deal of care and that one has managed to find a broad deal. The Veteran Associations have been decisive in bringing the matter up. I'm happy for the broad deal Stortinget shows today. It honors the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e400	Let me first say that the Advance Party and I of course support the vote and the proposals for decisions. Nevertheless, let me make some politically incorrect considerations – which have obviously become my lot in life. I have received enquiries from Norwegian military personnel who have served in Afghanistan, which have not necessarily fully agreed with the conclusions of a unanimous increase and the political Norway is now in the process of reaching. They have pointed out that many of the combat interpreters have been fully aware of the risks they have been exposed to, they have been well paid and got good terms – in the certainty that this could actually happen. Then I want to say that the combat interpreters were in Afghanistan to help the Afghan people. It's not like we were in Afghanistan to plague anyone. We were in Afghanistan to fight the Taliban. That's the starting point for what we're talking about here. Yes, the combat interpreters have done us a favor so that we can do a favor for them. It's pretty important to notice. Then I just want to conclude by saying, yes, they have been involved in combat actions, they have been at the front, and it may be that they may be subjected to persecution, etc., and then they will deal with their asylum application. But they're not the only staff that Norway got help from in Afghanistan. We got help from cooks, drivers, people who arranged for our service down there. They may also, on a later occasion, claim that they are being persecuted and should be allowed to stay in Norway. Then it's interesting where this limit is actually going to go. Those who helped us are also often the most resourceful, who should try to be with us and rebuild Afghanistan. Obviously, if we take the most resource-intensive people out of Afghanistan to let them come to Norway, it's even harder to build up Afghanistan. But again, not to create a big debate and a lot of noise here in the main hall because there is one representative asking a few critical questions: I am behind the vote and the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e413	Finally, it is said that the proposal is related to combat interpreters — not interpreters, not ‘house staff’ or what might be of other important helpers. Fight interpreter defined: uniform, involved in sharp missions, involved in weapons training. Even if you know what you're doing, you can get into a situation where you need protection. I would like to commend the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center parties, who make their participation manifest on a false basis, if I may say so, with a misunderstanding in an opinion of the Foreign and Defence Committee. There is respect for cleaning up and saying what it is, that it is SV that is behind that remark. It is only the SV who are behind the minority proposal, despite the fact that in the committee we worked to ensure that this was not a matter of party political overtones, but that we had to put ourselves in the harness to show that Norway is united about the conditions that the combat interpreters have experienced in helping our forces. I heard the representative from SV saying this could have been done before. Yes, it could. That could be done when they last sat in government. I want to commend SV for still addressing this as a representative proposal. When you see that things can get different and better, that's good. We have a unified and unanimous growth that now goes in to look at the guidelines. The Minister of Justice has been very clear that this work is already under way. There will be a separate scheme, new guidelines, reduced threshold, individual assessment and a safety assessment of the individual combat interpreter, but also the information they could have on Norwegian defence policy and the presence in Afghanistan. Then I have to say that I am somewhat surprised at the proposal that comes from SV, because as I read it, Norway is going to look for those who thought they could come under this scheme in Afghanistan, and that you should be helped here to get an assessment, and then maybe have to return. That's what I call making bad worse. We have clearly said that there should be new guidelines, with all that I have said in the past about the criteria, that they must apply individually, that those who have been rejected in the past will be retreated, and that the mailbox must be anywhere. Then I think we've included most of it. And I am very happy and proud that we manage to get together and despite everything, with the only exception that SV has its own proposal, we agree on everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e424	The reason why we found it necessary to do it this way was the new information we got about how dangerous it was for these people to be on the inside and have to hide even further, and that the fact that they actually had to come forward to deliver such an application could expose them even more to danger. I also ask for a bit of exclusivity from those who believe that the consensus between us, which we worked quite hard to achieve, I have to say – that consensus did not come of itself – is not about what is going on between us inside the Storting, between the parties here, but about the situation on the ground out there, for those of us with this proposal. That's the whole reason. I am very pleased that we have come up with a solution, but then the majority and the government are also very much responsible for this arrangement coming into place quickly, and that these people are not being killed until they get to stay here. That's what this case is about. I am recording what the representative Tybring-Gjedde said, that they had to be aware of what they were into. Yes, of course they were. It is also Norwegian military personnel, but we have rules on how to protect them before, during and after. These are people who have clearly taken sides in a conflict in which those who are on the other side are very strong and present quite concrete threats – not just to him, but to his family. They've been proven to have gone in uniform, they've been proven to have weapon training, they're in conflict with what you were supposed to do, but that's the situation. And it's probably not like someone is able to build any country if you're killed. We have a responsibility to protect those who have been with us and made it possible for our Norwegian soldiers to do a job. It is not possible to do a job on the ground in Afghanistan without understanding what is being said. Either in contact with the local population or when you need to hear what is being said by other contentious parties, you have to. I hope that a system will be put in place in the future to ensure that this is fully clarified in advance, and that if you have to recruit local staff, you have also clarified this in advance. As the rapporteur said, this case concerns the combat interpreters. We haven't addressed the situation for other personnel, but it should of course go through the defence when they're going to go through this, and figure out how those guidelines should be. It is quite clear that everyone will in any case have the right to seek political asylum if they believe they are persecuted and have grounds for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e457	This interpellation that we have chosen to address is an important matter for individuals and for society. The case also has several important aspects, both safety and not least value. This is a matter which has been debated many times in this Chamber, and there have been many proposals, but some of the intention behind this interpellation is to raise the debate and not least to clarify whether the Progress Party is still alone in our struggle to ban lucky garments, or whether several parties have now turned around and can support a proposal from the Progress Party. We considered promoting the matter directly as a representative proposal, but all the time since our proposals on this matter have been voted down again and again, we think it was only right now to find out whether we can bring together support for a ban on lucky clothes in the public space. If, in the course of today's debate, more parties have turned around and that there can now be a majority in this Chamber, the Progress Party is also prepared to take the matter forward as a proposal. But first a little bit about the background of the interpellation and the content of it. In an open and liberal democracy, we have some basic rules, norms and values for society. Especially the values on which our society is built are under pressure from undemocratic forces that do not accept democracy, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, legal certainty and the very basic: that all people are born free and have equal rights and opportunities regardless of religion and gender. The struggle for these rights is, as I said, under pressure from several teams, but especially from Islamist forces, we have seen that lately, too, that want to combat the values on which our society is built. And we have seen this through an undemocratic struggle such as, for example, have been led by terrorism in Europe as well, as we have seen a number of tragic examples in recent times. In an open and liberal democracy, no one should have to live up to the demands and expectations of the Middle Ages. Everyone, regardless of sex, should be able to walk on the street, on the tram, at the store without having to cover up. Among other things, burka and niqab are strong women's suppressive garments that aim that the woman should not arouse the desire of the man. The fact that one sex is going to control another sex as if it were their property is not something we can accept in Norway in 2015. But in addition to being strong women suppressors, burkas, niqabs and other lucky garments also prevent integration. One – the obvious – is that it will be very difficult to get a job when you are completely covered or masked. It's also about getting into society is going to be difficult, that is, it's blocking integration and contributing to isolation. We also know, when we talk about women, that in many of the environments here are the women who are also responsible for a large part of child rearing, and if mother doesn't have a job and doesn't get to be a part of society, the challenge of integrating children again will continue, among other things. because you are completely covered. Another argument is that of safety. I don't think anyone would have initially accepted that people were permanently masked with a Finnish hood in the public space, as hiding their identity in that way could be a security risk to society. I also do not think anyone wants or accepts that a person who is completely covered goes into a bank or post office. But some people obviously want us to have two sets of rules, where you have to have a separate set of rules for someone, while others don't necessarily have to follow the rules, the norms and the values. We have also seen several examples of terrorist acts and other criminal acts that have been carried out by people hiding behind lucky garments like niqab and burka. As I started with, the Progress Party has long fought for a ban, but has always been discouraged. The main argument of the other parties has been that a ban violates human rights, and thus all our proposals have been rejected. The party of progress disputed that argument. We thought it wasn't against human rights, but instead of having an open debate, more people chose to hide behind human rights. Fortunately, last June we received a clear and clear judgment in the European Court of Human Rights. The judgment was clear and clear, and it stated that it is not contrary to human rights to impose a ban on lucky garments. The judgment came as known on the basis of the fact that several other countries have introduced this ban. Not only Muslim but also European countries have introduced this ban. We have France, we have Belgium, and in Germany this matter is being discussed right now. On the basis of that judgment, the leader of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, went out on July 2nd into the gang of the world and opened up so that the Workers' Party could now participate in a ban on lucky garments, with a background in the judgment. The party of progress thinks it was very happy, and Jonas Gahr Støre made many good arguments as to why we should impose a ban on lucky garments. Bigger also concluded that the Workers' Party should have a process on and assess, but then we heard nothing. The party of progress was then afraid that this was a game for the gallery. We thought that now it had been more than six months since the Workers' Party was going to start thinking about the matter. They had the arguments, but had had six months to decide whether or not they supported a ban. I hope that today we can get a clear answer from all the parties here in this Chamber on whether they want to join or not on a proposal to ban lucky clothes in public space, and we will be constructive in how we will design such a proposal. Both the Storting, the voters and not least all the oppressed women who are forced on this cover deserve a clear and clear response and action to ensure that the values of Norway are built on do not apply to anyone, but to all those who live in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e478	Let me first thank the representative of Wiborg for the interpellation. The use of face-to-face clothing is a problem which has been more and more topical in recent years in connection with the fact that fundamentalist interpretations of Islam have had a somewhat greater upsurge or membership among some groups and individuals in Norway. Although it remains a marginal phenomenon, it may pose a problem. There are arguments both in favour of and against prohibitions, and in order to counter the practice of covering the face of the public. As the political situation has been so far, there has not been a majority in the United Kingdom for such a ban. The last time this issue was discussed in the Storting, the interpellant himself pointed out that a ban on facial headgear could be contrary to human rights, in particular the freedom of religion under the European Convention on Human Rights. As the interpellant pointed out, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the SAS case against France this summer. The Court of Human Rights found that the French prohibition on the use of face-to-face clothing in public places was not contrary to the Convention. A very important starting point in a liberal society is the individual's personal freedom and the freedom to make independent choices within a given framework. As long as the choices you make do not have unfortunate consequences for others, that freedom should be great. This suggests that the State should be careful to make cuts into the individual’s freedom if it cannot be seen that the individual’s actions go against others. However, as the interpellant mentions, lucky clothing identification is difficult. Examples of face-covering clothing include: burka, niqab, Finnish heat and balaklava. There are arguments both in favour of and against prohibiting the use of this type of clothing in the public domain. One aspect on which the interpellant itself spent some time is security. The safety problem can be partially addressed by the obligation to remove face-to-face clothing in situations where identification is necessary. Even if you can solve such challenges in practice for a while, it is easy to see as a problem that people go almost faceless and identityless around the public. The fact that people cannot see each other's faces in public space can do something about the trust and security that should be present in an open society. There are very few people who use face-to-face clothing in Norway today. Safe numbers are not available, but some estimates have been made in the media, where a maximum of 50 to 100 women have been estimated to use the lucky Islamic pests niqab and burka. This is a small proportion of both the population as a whole and the Muslim minority in Norway. This suggests that the issues you perceive around face-to-face clothing, however small, and one has to consider whether a ban is necessary, up to the number of people who use such clothing, and whether the issues it actually poses. As I see it, the vast majority of Muslims are of the opinion that facial concealment is no religious precept in Islam. There is, in turn, less reason for protecting the right to use it, given that the arguments for a ban should be strong enough. It is difficult to determine the effect of imposing a ban. A few years ago, such clothing was, as it were, non-existent in Norway. Now it seems that there may be a trend that is changing, and that more and more people are using such clothing. However, the discussion on a ban should address whether the use is actually a problem or not. The interpellant mentions that niqab and the burka can be perceived to have a female suppression profile. I agree that the use of such garments in many cases is an expression of an extreme view of the role of women. There is a view that women should fully cover themselves in order to avoid contact, openness and dialogue with the big society and with men. This is a form of segregation and a rejection of women's ability to participate in society and appear as individuals as they move in public space. Several women who wear face-to-face clothing have gone out in the media and said that they do it voluntarily as a result of a personal, religiously justified choice. Although that may be the case for some, it is difficult to exclude that others are forced or pressured to use such facial garments. Forcing someone to use such clothing is already a criminal offence. However, this type of coercion is very difficult to detect, and there is little likelihood that such cases will be reported. A ban may help to reduce the scope of action for those who wish to exercise such coercion and pressure in this area. An important consideration in favour of a ban on facial clothing in the public sector is consideration for integration. The use of garments such as cans and niqab impedes participation in work, education and other social life. Our open society is based on community members being willing to communicate with each other. Integration is only possible when people choose to participate. This is true both at work, at school and in the wider community. In order to succeed in integration, people should be willing to show their faces and be identifiable and able to communicate with them. In addition, integration was the main concern of the European Court of Human Rights in the SAS case against France. The Court of Justice found that the need for integration and the need to live together in a society justified interference with freedom of religion in the interests of the rights and freedoms of others. The right to freedom of religion and the right to privacy are not absolute sizes, but must be weighed and balanced against other overriding considerations. With regard to the use of face-to-face clothing in the public, I agree with the Human Rights Court that integration and communication between members of society is a very important consideration of the balance to be made. Finally, I would like to say that there is an important debate that has been raised by the inter-pellant. He himself has brought some challenges to more than the Council of State in his intervention. However, the government has not made any proposal to ban face-to-face clothing, nor is it currently on the government's agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e506	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I think it was good reflections around the theme. Because yes, it'll always be challenging if you're going to ban anything. It takes a lot more to get to the grip of having that type of intervention. But in a society you always have some boundaries you set, you have some values, you know, that I was in -- some of the common rules of life that apply to everyone. That is why the Progress Party is in favour of a ban on this matter. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice highlighted the value challenge of this, and clearly stated that the use of these plagues can be extremely oppressive to women. Some of what I've missed a bit in the debate is the women's movement, which should be the first to stand on the barricades to fight for these women, and not close your eyes. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice fixed the legal and referred to the judgment which states emphatically that the use of the prohibition is legal. It is therefore quite up to this room to decide whether or not we want to introduce this ban. That is why I look forward to the debate going on today. Unfortunately, I record that Jonas Gahr Støre, who went out in the VG, has chosen to stay away from the debate in various media, and – not least – it looks like – even today. I think that's a shame. The reason for this is that he first went out and gave the impression that the Workers' Party could support it, but now that you have to be concrete, I register that Gahr Støre chooses not to participate. I just want to mention one argument, which I'm sure someone is going to use in the debate, and then it's okay to get it checked right away. Someone's talking about this being very few. Yes, it does, and we should be glad – that there are still very few people in Norway today who use lucky clothes. But we also know that the problem is very growing. There are more and more people who use lucky clothes, and then it's important to also determine what rules we're going to have in society, even before there's too many. But I look forward to a good debate on an important topic, and I also hope that the parties that have previously used human rights as a argument to vote down the proposal can now be clear as to whether or not they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e521	I too look forward to the debate in the Chamber on this important issue. I think it is important to reflect on – which I also tried to do in my main post – both the benefits and the disadvantages of the use of prohibitions related to these kinds of lucky garments. It's always a balance to the values we're going to have as a liberal society, and the practical challenges it can quickly create if one contributes to some that in many ways can isolate themselves from what others consider to be important premises in order to live in a liberal society. Then I was also concerned with what Wiborg had to say in his last post, that this applies to very few. But the question is whether there should be a decisive argument, or whether one should have a principle approach to that kind of challenge, regardless of how large or small the amount of such lucky garments are. But I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e528	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for once again having the opportunity to debate a possible ban on lucky clothes in public spaces. Then I just have to regret that the representative of Wiborg may be disappointed that it is signed on this platform, and not the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, but in the Workers' Party we share the tasks, so that the representative can be comforted that this is the view of the Workers' Party. Then I'm a little stunned, because when you hear the interpellant from the pulpit, it almost sounds as if the interpellation is actually directed to the Workers' Party. We had this debate both in 2010 and in 2013. Since then, the Progress Party has come into government, and then it is a little strange that we have an interpellation debate on the issue, and does not debate a bill that the Progress Party promoted from this pulpit both in 2010 and in 2013. Nor has it been proposed by the government. But I understand the representative of Wiborg so that hereafter the Progress Party will only make proposals after they have checked whether there is a majority in this Chamber for it. There are different opinions and interpretations of what different religious garments, for example: hijab, symbolist. Women and girls who use hijab have many different motives for using it. One question here is: who is it that determines when the reason is religiously contingent, or when it is simply perceived as an opinion, or a free choice? The use of religiously justified headgear and discussions around it is an example of an area where different values and human rights may appear to conflict with one another. I think the Council of State had a very balanced post in which he discussed some of these issues that stand up to each other. The starting point of the Labour Party is that in a liberal, modern society it is up to everyone to decide their own dress. The regulation of the use of garments and symbols raises questions as to where the limit of intervention in freedom of belief and freedom of expression and freedom of expression should go. These freedoms must be strong. At the same time, as has been said in the past, there will be cases of the primacy of the needs of the large-scale society, such as safety concerns at work, the need for uniformisation of public officials or the desire for these officials to be as neutral as possible in faith and in life. I believe that the use of garments that completely or partially hide the face in the public domain is not desirable in Norwegian society. The use of rich clothing, such as burka and niqab, makes communication with others difficult; it can be challenging in terms of participation in education, working life and social life. Such garments may also be an expression of a human and female vision that violates key values in Norwegian society. We think it's a good starting point that people get to dress as they like. A bill to ban this is a violation of the democratic way of thinking we have. To force people to dress in a certain style and refuse to dress as they please, belongs to societies that we don't even want to compare with, or to copy. We believe that such a thought is undemocratic, inconsistent, and old - fashioned. Dressing as you please is part of freedom of speech or religious freedom. The right to dress as you like also protects women's right not to wear clothes they don't want to wear. To force someone to use lucky garments, such as burka and niqab, will be hit by the penal code. It will then be the person who exercises the coercion that is held responsible. However, in some more specific situations a ban will be well justified. Several educational institutions have, for example: the introduction of rules against the use of thick clothing in educational situations. It is in line with the view underlying the Report. St. 6 for 2012–2013, A comprehensive integration policy. Such rules may and should be developed on the basis of local, concrete and practical considerations. Surprisingly, there is little information on which women are irritating themselves with lucky faces in Norway. There are no statistics on how many people are using lucky headgear. Estimates from the Minotenk minority policy think tank are estimated to be a place between 50 and 100 women. I have recorded that the Council of State described the extent as small and marginal. Before we introduce such a radical ban, some questions about the practical consequences have to be answered: Do women become less depressed if the garment is banned? Are those who are being oppressed deprived of freedom of movement? Can those who use it voluntarily experience it as a confirmation of alienation, against which it is warned? And can it once again strengthen their connection to radical environments instead of to the big community, of which we want them to be part? And how is a ban to be enforced? Who is to be punished, those who wear the garment, or those who forced anyone to wear it? We have succeeded in much of the integration work in Norway. That work must be continued. It is best to use other means than the prohibition of the use of thick clothing in public spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e549	I listened with interest to the explanation from the Workers' Party representative about the allocation of tasks and who is talking about what. Then it might be a good thing that the representative of the Workers' Party makes his own colleagues, from the same party, aware that that distribution is also in other parties. We have registered with interest the violent suture of e.g. Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen does not participate in absolutely all debates, and that the head of the Judicial Committee, from the Labour Party, has even lured love on the stick, if I am not mistaken, to meet Anders Anundsen enough times. So that distribution we also have in other parts. Then over to the matter itself. Here I perceive that the Workers' Party is turning again. It is no wonder that the representative Wiborg wants clarification, because in due course the Workers' Party set up an immigration committee in which the then immigration-political spokeswoman in the Workers' Party proposed to ban lucky garments. There's no dress code we're talking about, it's something as basic as being able to identify people in the public room. The current leader of this selection, Jonas Gahr Støre, went out and said that this was totally out of date, it never came to be the Labour Party's policy, and it was a violation of what was of the principles and values that the Workers' Party stood for. One of the favorite reasons of the left-hand side was actively used when it goes empty of arguments in this field, namely that there is a violation of human rights. We heard that about closed asylum recipients – it was a violation of the Children's Convention, it was a violation of human rights. And then it turns out that it was not – it was completely in line with Norwegian legislation, more specifically Section 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act. We've heard this justification is also being used about the age limit of 24 years. It would probably also be a violation of human rights, despite the fact that Denmark had it, and it will also be introduced in Norway. There is also no violation of human rights. Then we come in a situation where the European Court of Human Rights gives France the right to the prohibition they have imposed against lucky garments, and they have a very fundamental and good reason to support France. Then Jonas Gahr Støre has become the leader of the Workers' Party and is out and gives the first impression that he thinks it makes sense, and can support it. Then a few days goes by where he's out balancing, i.e. he is willing to consider it – he will not even promote this proposal, but if the government or others promote such a proposal, he will find it interesting and will look into it. And on the basis of the argument to the Workers' Party in this matter today, it now seems that, once again, it is completely out of date for the Workers' Party to vote in favour. It is not uninteresting what Norway's largest party and the largest opposition party manage to do in this matter, so I am glad that we have had this debate first, before we possibly promote such a proposal. The reason we haven't promoted it is that we have seen that the majority of the population has not changed, but we saw a hope when the leader of the Workers' Party first went out as clearly as he did and gave the impression that he could imagine supporting such a proposal, now that there was no violation of human rights. That's why we also challenge other parties in this case, and that's absolutely necessary. In conclusion, I would just like to once again call on the representative of the Workers' Party to remind his own colleagues of this division of labour, and that there is no need for special people to speak out and participate in certain debates. There have been a lot of comments from the Workers' Party against the Progress Party recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e564	The question of whether or not to ban identity-hidden clothing is a question that puts liberal value points to the test. In an open, liberal and tolerant society, there is no place for a ban on clothing. On the other hand, one might say that in an open, liberal and tolerant society, there is no room for clothing that prevents social interaction – and which is also anti-female and repressive. What should a do? We need to look at the situation here on land as he is today, and consider what developments might be. The whole-discovering plagues that the interpellation is about, are jars and niqabs. It is estimated that between 50 and 100 women are praying for such religious clothing in Norway today, and there is no reason to believe that the number will increase dramatically. If this were to happen, however, it is possible to reconsider the law. France adopted a general ban in 2010, a law prohibiting suits that intend to conceal the face of the public space. The following year, Belgium also introduced a ban on clothing covering the face in whole or in part. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is very sceptical about imposing such a ban in our country and refers to the various negative effects it can have on integration and equality. It's worth listening to. At the same time, it is legitimate to ask yourself a question: does it not have a negative impact on integration and equality that the women's people in question are unable to participate in the same way as us others in social or work situations? The answer is of course yes, it's negative. If we want to avoid adopting a legal ban on these clothes, we must at the same time ask ourselves if there are other ways to prevent many from using them, not least how we can prevent women from being forced to wear these clothes. Because no matter how liberally we have to stand up as a society when we rule out the rule of law against whole-minded clothing, it is not perceived as a free society for the women's people who are forced to use plagues. Interpellanten, the representative of Wiborg, believes it is a pity that the Labour Party Jonas Gahr Støre did not participate in the debate today. But he should strictly think it is more a pity that the government partner of the Progress Party, Right, did not participate. It should be more important for Wiborg to get support from just the Right than from the opposition. Now it's obvious to see if Right comes up, they haven't done that yet. The representative Keshvari is equally indignant at the Labour Party. The more striking it is that it does not call for the view of the Right. We'll see if it comes. The centre party is not prepared to support such a ban in France and Belgium on the basis of a holistic assessment of the principal and practical aspects of the case and of the situation as it stands in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e588	Last year I was traveling in Iran. Besides being a very beautiful and exciting country to visit, there is also a country where people live under an authoritarian and strictly religious regime. I'm talking to several women who wore religious headgear. Some of them strongly disliked it and perceived it as female repressive. Others perceived it as women's liberating and thought that covering itself meant that they were treated in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of appearance. That's probably also true of women who cover themselves here in Norway. The difference between Iran and Norway is not the view that each person should have of the use of religious clothing. The difference between Iran and Norway is that one in Iran has no choice. There's the other thing that takes that choice for you. As liberals, I am critical of the use of coercive force against the citizens – both the coercive power and the pressure that religious heads and family members can exert against the individual to cover themselves, and the coercive power that a country can use to impose or prohibit the same. Therefore, I thought it was surprising that the Progress Party, which says that they are fighting for individual freedom, was so easily prevented from regulating what the inhabitants were wearing. To add the good will, however, I would say that it is a problem that many of those who cover themselves with religious clothing can hardly be told to do it entirely on a voluntary basis. And it opens up an intervention in their freedom that they can't wear clothes as they like. But many also do so voluntarily, and such issues should be largely left to civil society and individuals. Instead, as politicians, we should take the tough discussions that arise around how to dress when a job in different occupations can prevent it from doing a good job, for example. as a teacher or judge. When it comes to the concrete proposal to which the representative of Wiborg refers, namely a ban on the use of whole-covered garments in public space, it is true that this does not necessarily conflict with human rights. But as the Progress Party probably knows very well, there is a flurry of illiberal, paternalistic prohibition that can be introduced, without necessarily being contrary to human rights. Fortunately, the European Court of Human Rights grants the parties to the Convention a relatively wide scope of action, based on national culture and traditions – not least on such issues as we are discussing here. But the left does not see it as a goal of a good policy that he is hairy within human rights. Human rights are the last chance, and the boundaries of politics, not least for a liberal civil party, should go long before that. In addition to the fact that the proposal is in principle very problematic, I also believe that it is an attempt to solve an almost imaginary problem. Firstly, there is hardly anyone walking around the public space in this country with niqab or burka, to which the Minister of Justice has referred. The users of the latter can count roughly on a hand. Secondly, I can't remember seeing or hearing that the problem of identification, which the representative Wiborg is busy with, is actually a problem. If the representative knows a single example of a situation where there has been a big problem in Norway that someone moving in the public space, doesn't show his face, he'd have to share that example with us, it's stories of burca-capped women, balaclava-led skiers or masked New Year's Eve bays. It is quite right – as the representative refers to – that the Labour Party has meant a lot strange in this matter, as in many other cases, but the Labour Party must be able to answer it itself. From the left side, at least there is no doubt about our attitude: women's repressive practices and structures are to be repressed, and the freedom of the individual citizen to dress as he pleases is a fundamental principle. But precisely because it is such a fundamental principle, the proposal for a state ban and the imposition of different dresses is illiberal and a very bad idea. Women’s liberation is guided by a good education policy, a good employment policy and a good gender equality policy — in short, by empowerment, not by disapproval, for which the proposal of the Progress Party is an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e609	The representative Wiborg fears that standards and values are under pressure from undemocratic forces. I would like to remind you that values and norms on which a society is built are not static at all, but always under development and debate. Not long ago, we celebrated the anniversary of voting rights – for all, when democracy was introduced in Norway, when women also received a vote. Then we celebrated the vote with the highest degree of self-evidentness across the parties, but it came about after a long struggle and after sweats and tears. The same applies to the right to self-determined abortion, the right to self-determination over the body and reproductive rights, which many of us believe are related to equivalised values. The right to control their own bodies has also been under pressure – and then by democratic forces. SV is a feminist party. We fight for women's liberation and against all forms of women's oppression, but we don't necessarily believe that it always gives greater freedom to undress than to dress – if the purpose is to look at men, if the purpose is to adapt and live up to man's expectations rather than his own. I find it strange that the party's commitment to women is limited to minority women who the party believes are wearing too much clothing, while the party presents it as unproblematic that minority women without clothes are for sale on strippers and in prostitution. The struggle for women's freedom is not always consistent on the part of the Progress Party. The SV also believes that there are obvious problematic aspects related to lucky garments, both in the nature of the garment – preventing communication, preventing glances and mimics – and in the coercive aspect and the view of women that may lie on the ground. But it may also apply to other garments, both religious and non-religious, and I will warn against looking at Muslim women as an extension of their husband, without will or their own wishes. Then it is clear that it is – and it is important that everyone knows that it should be – illegal to force someone to wear face-to-face clothing. SV will not, however, be in favour of a ban on lucky garments, because in the cases where coercion and control are at stake, a ban could lead to further isolation. It's harder to check how the neighbor really feels if the neighbor can't go out because the state has told you that the clothes you wear are not legal. In those cases where there is conviction behind the choice of that kind of garment, there are quite different debates than a prohibition debate that could change such a choice. We clearly see the need for regulations relating to certain workplaces or training institutions. It is difficult to have training if you do not have communication with a student, and it is clear that you, for example: in the care sector, there must be strict hygiene rules for the type of uniform you can wear at work. Although we generally look positively at work uniforms that can be adapted to religious garments, it will be difficult with garments such as niqab or burka. So a short comment on the safety dimension: I haven't registered that the Progress Party has been concerned about people with motorcycle helmets or snowmobile helmets. They also hide their face, and there's no ban on keeping your helmet on when you're going to go in and pay for the gasoline. If that is the threat of terrorism you think of, it will never be won through a thousand different bans on a large or small scale, but by strengthening civil society – by strengthening education, school, security – combined with good police work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e625	There are several reasons to forbid lucky garments, and I quite agree with Jonas Gahr Støre when he says to the VG: ‘Face-covering clothing prevents communication and makes active participation in society impossible.’ And... ‘All-covering garments act as discrimination against women in practice.’ We can't just sit there and watch women get discriminated against in Norway in 2015 without doing anything? But I record that doing something with discriminatory masking, yes, it is undemocratic! We have a situation in Europe where we see more and more terrorist attacks – most recently in France and Denmark. Here in Norway, we have increased the level of terror threats, and we have armed the police – even outside this house. The evening post wrote in October 2013 about the increase in the number of female terrorists. What we could read was that more and more women are involved in terror. The Taliban must have had two training camps for female terrorists. We saw it in the attack on the theater in Moscow in 2002. There were women wearing the terror belts – not the men. The most sought after terrorist action against Charlie Hebdo is a woman. So lucky garments aren't just discriminatory. The challenge it creates with identification – with the level of threat we have today – is something we absolutely need to take seriously and do something about. This is also about masking. I note that everyone in this debate broadly agrees that lucky garments are women's repressive, but not enough are being suppressed in Norway yet! How many people have to be suppressed before we do anything, and how long are we going to sit still and watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e646	I am pleased with the representative Jenny Klinge that the Right also has a view on this matter – and has always had a plan to express that view. To take some history first: the right has voted against a general ban earlier. Now that this debate has again been updated following the Strasbourg judgment, we have not taken a position, and we welcome that debate. To start with, the very simple starting point: the fact that there are rules for e.g. schools, different professions or workplaces, we think we are completely acceptable. That makes sense, and it's already done today. A general ban on a dress suit, however, is somewhat different. It is that our society, in fact our well-being, is built on a very fundamental principle, namely that a good society is built with confidence, and trust is built when people can see each other. The European information project is threatened every day by religious fundamentalism. We have a long tradition of fighting for groups that are discriminated against and oppressed. There's a fight that I think everyone in this room wants to end up about. If that fight is going through the closet, we're a little bit more uncertain about it. The right does not deny that rules against these kinds of traditions or dress suits can be reasonable, but it is a good and firmly anchored liberal conservative rule that an intervention in the individual's freedom should be well justified in practical circumstances and the more intervention it becomes, the greater the requirement. It is also important in this debate that we do not read this judgment from Strasbourg completely uncritically. It's like we have to relativize to the individual national culture and tradition. We should not rule out that this question could be different if the question had come up for Norway. I think this could be one of the most interesting value debates coming to this hall. I hope we have the opportunity to decide on it, and we welcome the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e659	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. Unfortunately, we see that the outcome of the debate is that the other parties have not changed their position. It shows that when the main argument against the proposals of the Progress Party has always been the human rights, and when the judgment is clear that the use of the prohibition does not conflict with human rights, there will be other arguments. Then the representative Eirik Sivertsen asked me from the pulpit if I was disappointed that it was he who met, and not Gahr Støre. I just have to be clear that I wasn't. On the contrary, I actually thought it was good that it was the representative Eirik Sivertsen and not the party leader Jonas Gahr Støre who met, for now we got at least a clear answer. And the answer we got was that the Workers' Party does not support the Advance Party. But I have to say it's a little strange, all the time it's been mentioned in the debate of the Workers' Party's Committee on Integration. They also adopted the following decisions at the national meeting of the Workers' Party: «Healthy clothing acts in practice as discrimination against women». I will assume it is unparliamentary, and therefore I will not claim that the Labour Party is in favour of discrimination, but nevertheless I find it strange that at one moment you can decide that something is discrimination against women and strongly suppressing women, but in the next round you do not want to do anything about it. But I would assume that in a few years' time, the Workers' Party will support us. Then I'd like to be briefed by the representative Jenny Klinge's posts, where she justified it in principle by rejecting any proposal. But if the problem increases, if there are more who use burka, niqab and other lucky garments, then the Center Party will reconsider its vision. It's very special that you have to be very principleal if it's a lot, but if it's a few, you don't have to care about it. Then there was the representative Kirsti Bergstø, who I think had a very special introduction to her post where she refuted that our values are under pressure. If there's something that's obvious, it's that several of the basic values of our society are built on, most of which are under pressure. The representative Bergstø also asked questions about the commitment of the Progress Party to immigrant women, and wondered why there are only immigrant women we are engaged to. First of all, it is a mistake, but then I can ask the question back. I think it's strange that the Socialist Left Party's commitment to equality and women's rights should only be confined to ethnic Norwegian women. I think we would have had a completely different debate if this hadn't been about immigrants, if this hadn't been about burka or niqab. Had it been about Finnish heat in the public space, I am reasonably sure that the Progress Party had had broad support in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e676	Just a few short final comments from my side. I think this has been a good interpellation debate, which has been reflected in a lot of areas. At the same time, I think it's a very good sign when these kinds of debates are drawn into the main hall and from just the media columns. It becomes more obligating what is said in the storeroom than what is said in the media. That's why I think it's very good that this interpellation debate has taken place, with the commitment that it has actually had with it as well. So there's one thing I wanted to comment on. There are several who indicated that there is a difference between Iran, which I think was used as an example, up against Norway and volunteering in relation to the use of lucky garments. I think it's important that we at least bear in mind that the so-called volunteering will be relatively also in Norwegian environments. Although it is punishable to force someone to wear this kind of clothing, it is very practical to pursue such cases in Norway, based on both the fact that it will be difficult to report and that it will be difficult to pursue it in another way. I record after this debate that the majority in the storeroom is the same as it has been in the past. It's okay to bring it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e687	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e701	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. The President will also propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e708	Let me start by saying that this representative proposal addresses a very important health challenge that goes right to the core of the important issue of equality in healthcare. In this regard, we must note that the knowledge we have acquired about various diseases, in most research studies, has largely concerned men, which means that we do not know enough about women's health. It is not unlikely that this is one of the possible more explanations that sick leave is greater in women than in men. A public inquiry launched in 1999, Women’s health in Norway, revealed a great lack of knowledge and a lack of gender perspective in health policies and practices. In view of this, a ten-year women’s health strategy was introduced in 2002–03, among others. to strengthen research on gender differences in disease risk, disease development, diagnostics and treatment. Women and men have biological differences that may give rise to differences in disease progression and symptoms. More women die of heart disease than of cancer. A better knowledge of gender inequalities in symptoms could have revealed the disease cases in the past, for example: Women often have other symptoms of heart attack than men. The positive picture is that we've had several important initiatives in women's health in recent years. The National Centre of Competence for Women’s Health was opened in 2006 and, in the context of the women’s health strategy, 19 projects covering women’s health have been funded between 2004 and 2014. From a global perspective, the UN's Millennium Goals have had women's and girls' turnarounds on the agenda since 2000. The Health Directorate is working to document the status of the challenges outlined in the Women’s Health Strategy so that we can see developments during the period of the strategy. The Labour Party does not agree with the government parties when they claim that a new public inquiry into female health will put important processes on hold. We believe that, on the contrary, a new study will contribute to new and up-to-date knowledge of women’s health, with a focus on which measures best contribute to equalising gender differences. We mean, for example: that we need better knowledge of immigrant women's health. The challenge here will include, among other things: relate to cultural differences, language difficulties and the experience of women with a minority background with the different actors in health care. We therefore believe that it is essential that such an inquiry into female health should also include an overall approach to the health of migrant women. I would particularly like to stress the importance of clearly focusing on one of the most important women's health problems, namely violence and abuse in close relationships. The working party has always focused on this problem area. A public inquiry into female health needs to address these challenges in particular. The Stoltenberg II Government submitted its 2013 Report. St. 15 for 2012–2013; Prevention and combating violence in close relations. It's about living. The notification was followed up by a concrete action plan with several important points. Among other things, the establishment of family coordinators in all police districts was such a point of action in view of the fact that the coordinators were to assist women against public authorities, blah. the health care system. A recent report from the Legal Advice for Women shows that the coordinators are not always required to work for the intended purpose and that this may make it difficult for violent women to obtain proper health care assistance. I would particularly like to stress that the health centre and the school health service are very good measures to be able to identify violence against women and children at an early stage and to put in place the right relief measures as soon as possible. Such services are so important that the Workers' Party has proposed to designate money as a stepping-up plan for this purpose in the municipalities. I bring up this proposal that we have put forward together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e727	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e730	Women in Norway live long, almost 85 years on average. We have good health and live longer healthy, we give birth to children in a safe environment, we have low infant and maternal mortality, and we have good maternity care and good leave and support arrangements. But we have some particular challenges related to female health, such as violence and assault, that women have been less included in research's clinical studies, and that there has been less research into diseases that are specific to women. It is the government's goal to create the patient's healthcare, and the government has therefore stated that it will be important to view gender as one of the variables that affects the patient's needs. The Government has therefore asked the Health Directorate and the regional health businesses to base their gender perspective on the development of services and to ensure that specific challenges related to women’s or men’s health are met. We agree that health policies and practices in healthcare need to be more closely aligned with gender differences. The 1999 NOU, Women’s Health in Norway, revealed a great lack of knowledge and lack of gender mainstreaming in health policies and practice. On the basis of this, a ten-year women's health strategy was established. This one has now been reviewed by the Health Directorate. The report shows that much of the content of the 1999 NOU and the women’s health strategy is still relevant. We believe the time has now come to focus on the areas that have been too poorly covered, and look at new challenges that have arisen. Since 1999, more research has been carried out on women’s health, and the government has chosen to continue this area of action in 2015. The Right-wing Party Government is now implementing many measures that have an indirect and direct impact on women’s health. Soon the government's equality message will come. It will focus on positive instruments and have a broader gender perspective. It will include, among others: discuss actions against involuntary part-time, low professional participation among minority women and the lifting of skills in women-dominated professions. It will look at differences in women’s and men’s health and promote women’s entrepreneurship. In the important field of violence in close relationships, it will go from action plans to actual action. We are also pleased that the government is delivering its own youth health strategy, with an action plan for sexual health. Our government also extends the right of prescription for prevention, so that health sisters and midwives now get this for all women of all ages. Highly accessible prevention is one of the means of reducing unwanted pregnancy and abortions. It is also very positive that new guidelines have been developed to ensure that midwives should ask about violence when pregnant women are consulted at the health centre. This may early reveal domestic violence and enable the auxiliaries to secure and assist. It is also relevant for women’s health that the government strengthens school health services considerably. Women's politicians in the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have asked the government to prioritise women's health and medical research and to include important perspectives in the gender equality message. This was done in a joint play in the Aftenposten newspaper in December 2014. Together with the Progress Party, the Right in the setting we are discussing today has asked the government to draw up a separate chapter in the gender equality message related to women’s health, where selected areas are to be prioritised. In the right, we believe that work to balance gender differences in healthcare needs to continue without delay and that a new public investigation could put important processes on hold. That is why we do not support the proposal for a new public inquiry on the subject now. We believe that in 2015 the government's gender equality message will describe challenges related to unwanted gender differences in women's disfavor, that it will point to measures necessary to change this, that the Communication will clarify which points from the 1999 NOU have not been followed up, and whether there are aspects to female health that were missing in the 1999 investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e753	The proposers believe that today’s health policy is not adapted to gender differences and propose to conduct a public inquiry into women’s health in Norway. The rapporteur has well pointed this out in his article, so I do not repeat much of the same. In 1999, we received a NOU on women’s health in Norway. This revealed a great lack of knowledge and the lack of gender mainstreaming in health policy and practice. Based on this, a ten-year women’s health strategy was developed, as well as a number of other strategies on the same theme. The Health Directorate is now working on a report on the status of the challenge picture outlined in the Women’s Health Strategy. So there has been no lack of research, monitoring, research, plans and strategies. What's interesting is what comes out of all these documents, and what might be missing. In this regard, I can inform you that it was the Christian People's Party's women's network that in its time took initiative, and that contacted me with the desire to reach an agreement to ask the government to put women's health on the agenda. Together with the Women of the Right and the Left, we agreed to send a joint letter to the government asking for an evaluation of the 2003–2013 women’s health strategy, which was established on the basis of the NOU, and that the outcome of this should be taken into account in the gender equality message under work. The government is now working on creating the patient's healthcare. If we're going to get to this, all areas and levels need to change. Recognizing that there is actually a difference between men and women will therefore also be a natural part of this work. Research on women’s health is a priority in regional health companies through the governance requirements and a national competence service for women’s health has been established. The aim of the competence service is to be a national actor that promotes knowledge of women’s health in a life-cycle perspective for authorities, health professionals and the public. The government is also working with a youth health strategy and an action plan on sexual health. I perceive that there is a broad consensus that the focus on female health needs to be strengthened, among other things. by continuing to integrate the gender perspective into research, developing adapted health services and continuing to focus on women’s health in the labour market. According to the Health Directorate, the NOU is still very topical, and I believe that it is now necessary to look back at the issues that were not well covered at the time, and to reinforce the measures that have not been properly followed up so far. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Progressive Party have therefore asked the Government to follow up on the following in particular: Gender research — including research on occupational health — immigrant health and the use of immigrant women in healthcare, research and knowledge development related to drug use for women and research on gender-specific drug treatment. I support the view of the women’s networks that there is now no time to put processes on hold, but rather give priority to new measures as soon as possible, and believe that this assessment gives more power than a new and long-term investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e779	The Christian People's Party believes that it is of course a matter of course for health services in Norway to reflect gender equality, including in terms of resource allocation, treatment and follow-up. Women and men have different biology in fundamental areas, which has consequences for how we face different types of disease all the way down to cell level, and how they work on the body as a whole. Far more women in Norway die from heart disease than from cancer, although the latter group is often the most widely used in Norwegian speech chairs. With greater knowledge of gender differences, many of the cases would probably have been previously identified and interpreted much more precisely. Research also shows that differences in the way things work on women and men show themselves in anesthesia, in painkillers, and in other types of medications where we actually have different effects on measures based on our gender. It is problematic for women to receive treatment that is not well documented, given whether it is good enough for women, because men are overrepresented in clinical studies. That's why we don't know enough about how things work for women. In addition, typical women’s diseases, where there is no mention of life and health, are neglected in hospitals and do not have the same status in the education of health professionals. We can only mention women who go around with uterine progression or great challenges with incontinence. Gender-specific knowledge is a prerequisite for effective action to enable women and men to receive health services on equal terms. When the last female health investigation was in 1997 and was delivered in 1999, there is a lot of water in the sea after that. A lot of new knowledge has come, and we don't get it if we don't get a new NOW. Then I hear that the representative of the Progress Party refers to the women's network. It's great that the women's network has a desire to put women's health on the agenda. But for the Christian People's Party as a party is a NOU central because the investigation has revealed that we have a lack of knowledge and lack of integration in view of the gender perspective. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for an investigation into women's health in Norway, 15 years after it was last carried out. It is not appropriate to base new plans, new actions and new action plans on old research results and insufficient research. There is a need for up-to-date knowledge in order to develop and facilitate good strategies and close and good action plans in women’s health. The study must look at differences between women in disease risk, at disease development, diagnostics and diagnostics in conjunction with treatment. The study must also include perspectives on low priority women’s diseases that almost nobody talks about, and not least take into account the challenges posed by new citizens – women who come to our country and who have diseases that we need to learn about and be able to treat in a good and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e790	Troponin 1 is a protein that leaks into the blood of a heart attack. Twice as many men as women get the diagnosis of heart attack by regular analysis of Troponin 1, but in a new American study recently published in the British Medical Journal, a high-sensitivity analysis of Troponin 1 has been used. Then the differences disappeared. With a new method of analysis, cases of documented heart attack among acutely hospitalised women were doubled. So the high-sensitivity analysis disappeared. The study included 1 126 patients who filed suspected acute myocardial infarction. The study also showed that women were less likely to be assigned to cardiac specialists and less likely to undergo angiography or PCI, i.e. blockage. The authors concluded that acute heart attack was underdiagnosed among women and that it leads to poor treatment. Better methods of analysis with gender-specific thresholds will give women the same determinations as men for proper diagnosis. The centre party believes that this well illustrates the need for up-to-date knowledge of women's health, and that there should be a public statement about women's health in Norway. It is an overarching objective for the health sector to ensure equivalent treatment based on health needs irrespective of personal economy, gender, ethnic background, housing and individual living conditions. Therefore, gender-specific knowledge is fundamental in order to be able to take effective measures to ensure that women and men are able to receive health services on equal terms. The last public statement on women’s health came in 1999. In spite of this, experience has shown that typical female diseases are prioritised lower than diseases where men are dominant or where there are small gender differences. I will also refer to NOU 2014:12 Open and fair – health care priorities, from the Priority Committee, such as: It indicates that there is currently under-treatment of MS patients, of women who suffer from stress incontinence and uterine progression. Another area that is clearly under-prioritised is osteoporosis and osteoporosis treatment and case prevention, especially in older women. Chronic pain is another example. A new public statement on female health must consider which diseases women are overrepresented in, and to what extent the disease is prioritised, and it must be highlighted more broadly how the diagnosis takes place. One needs to research more about women’s health, and one needs to look at the challenges of immigrant health and the encounter of immigrants with health services. The Government Party and the Left will today vote against a new acquisition of knowledge on women's health, and that is regrettable. It has been used as an argument that this will put important processes on hold, and I strongly disagree with that. Getting more knowledge about women’s health and the kind of action that best helps to smooth out gender differences in relation to different health services is a major need. 15 years, which is the time from the last knowledge acquisition, is a long time in this context. I would like to stress that the need for a new public statement on this topic received professional support in the hearing. The government's party indicates that women's health should be given a separate chapter in the gender equality message. That's good, but the equality message is not going to be treated by our committee. I mean that women's health is about equality, but first and foremost it's a health responsibility. If there was one big message this should be included, it was the primary health service message. Now, our proposal is going to fall, but I'm going to encourage the Council of State that there's a chapter on this, too, in the prime health report, because that's where the underpriority of women's diseases begins.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e809	Proposals shall be commended for raising the theme ‘female health’, even if the concept itself is a little problematic. States that only or mainly affect women are referred to as female health, as opposed to the general health challenges. We're talking a little bit about a human health. The aim must be to get so far into equality in this area that there is no need to discuss women's health detached from the health challenges. However, for a while to come, there will be a need to raise women’s health as a special theme. Research results where men are used as norms are still used to treat women, leading to an increased risk of mistreatment. We know that women are more vulnerable to some disease conditions than men, and that women and men have different immune systems. Because women and men are different, there is a need for different approaches. The same measures may have different effects on men and women. A gender perspective on health may reveal undesirable inequalities between women and men. Lack of gender perspective is discriminatory. There is therefore a need for gender mainstreaming in research and other knowledge acquisition, policy-making, prevention, health and welfare systems. It is a fact that women use health services more often than men, but then one, to which the proposers refer, must bear in mind that much of the gender difference in service use disappears when taking into account women’s reproductive functions, higher average age and self-reported morbidity. When women have significantly more consultations with general practitioners than men, there is reason for concern when it is noted that the likelihood of referral to a physician specialist is less for women than for men. However, we must not forget that women in Norway have good health compared to women in many other countries. Women in Norway still live longer than most other women in the world. And many women in Norway have good conditions for good health. Gender challenges need to be equally fully addressed. If we gain more knowledge and experience related to particular women’s health challenges in Norway, it could also affect women in other countries. Norway is a multicultural society. We also have to take that into account in our field. Health information and other health promotion activities shall meet the needs of all ethnic groups. It must therefore be an overall objective to ensure that migrant women are well-being and to facilitate their use of healthcare in the same way as the rest of the population. We know that immigrant women go to healthcare to a lesser extent than other women, and that is a challenge we all have to address. Here you can learn more from the work of the Diabetes Association, where you have actively gone to immigrant organisations, religious meeting places such as mosques and churches, teaching places for Norwegian training, refugee receptions and other non-governmental organisations. Among other things, there are: the measurement of blood sugar and the provision of information on diabetes. Through systematic work over time, a network is built-up and, in particular, trust. Information on diabetes is available in several languages, and guidance is provided in, for example: Hindi, Punjabi, English, Urdu, Turkish, Portuguese, Spanish, Somali and Tamil. The left considers that the 1999 study, NOU 1999:13, was important and that there is a need to evaluate the women’s health strategy established in the context of the investigation and covered the period 2003–2013. We have expectations that the strategy will be evaluated and that its experience will help to provide a basis for further work in this area. We need, first of all, action and implementation. What challenges you have, we already know a lot about. Now there is a need for action. We therefore have expectations that women's health will be an important part of the gender equality message that the government is working with. We also expect the recommendations given in the NOU to be evaluated as part of this work. A holistic and strategic view of women’s health and living conditions is needed in Norway in 2015 and priority is given to research, education, prevention and treatment needs. The left considers that a strategy should be developed for what should be done in order to gain a social cross-sectoral and holistic understanding and commitment to women’s health, including specifying priorities and specific efforts in a long-term perspective. Finally, some words about prevention and early intervention. The left considers that health centres and school health services are the most suitable part of healthcare for prevention. A midwife and a health sister has a unique opportunity to intervene early and to prevent negative developments in diet, exercise or psychosocial conditions. In the school health service, health nurses can be a crucial support for girls who strive to meet their expectations at several levels. Of all measures, more health sisters may therefore be the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e835	Then the representative Audun Lysbakken has also signed up, and even if the council was advertised, the president gives the word to Audun Lysbakken first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e838	It looks like the government's doing well with it. This is a matter that we are pleased to have been promoted, which addresses an important question. SV will support the proposal put forward by the proposers, but unfortunately no majority has been put behind them in the vote. There is growing knowledge of the extent of gender discrimination in our health and care services. Recently we've got two – for many quite shocking ones, I think – examples of that. One was NOVA's review of discrimination in the provision of services, where it turned out that older people can get very different home services depending on the sex of their children, i.e. that our care services in some municipalities think that an older person with a daughter needs less public help than an older person with a son. It says something about stereotype thinking. Similarly, in Kristiansand municipality, it was revealed that the provision of rehabilitation services was different for older women and older men — men received more. It was something that was revealed through a project that the previous government launched called ‘Like-Cities’, which was just going to map and give us new knowledge about how the type of systematic gender differences occur. Unfortunately, it was one of a lot of equality measures that the new government closed when it got the government power in the autumn of 2013. The treatment of the various projects to learn more about and implement a more active gender equality policy that this government is behind, says a lot about how low on the agenda equality is for the Right and the Advance Party. It is also sad for health policy, because that kind of project would give us decisive knowledge of how to further develop health and care services, so that it does not go wrong when we are to provide an equivalent offer to women and men. An important reason to pay attention to women’s health is simply that health challenges and health problems may differ for women and men. Some diseases are gender-specific. In addition, the major social problem of violence and abuse is unfortunately far more likely to affect women than men. It is therefore essential that we also have a health policy with a clear gender perspective. It should mean that we get a new investigation related to female health – it's been a long time since we did it last. We appreciate that the government will include this both in its work on a new strategy and in the follow-up to the Priority Committee, but I think we should recognise that there is a lot we don't know yet, and that new knowledge would be a great advantage both for growth and government. In addition, it is important to point out that, in recent years, a debate on the aspects of health policy relating to challenges specific to men has also been increasingly launched. There may be diseases that men get to a greater extent than women, or simply that major groups of our male population have, it looks like, much higher the threshold for seeking contact with the health care system than that of women. The previous government started a series of work on it. The world’s first report on gender equality, where human health was a central theme. It is important that we do not believe that we are able to take account of these issues unless we occasionally place women's health and men's health on the agenda. Therefore, I would like it to be possible to get broad support for the proposal that has been put forward here, and I think it is a pity that it does not seem possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e856	The government's goal is to create the patient's healthcare, where the patient's needs are to be centered. Gender is one of many variables that may affect the patient’s need for services. The relationship between sex and health has taken too long to recognise enough, although knowledge in the field has increasingly shown that we need to take this relationship into account, both in politics and in clinics. I therefore agree with the rapporteurs that a broader gender perspective on knowledge is important, which can reveal differences in health between women and men, and which can provide the basis for targeted action and good female health. The goal of getting better knowledge about and taking more into account gender and female health is good. But this goal is now better and more quickly achieved in our ongoing work than it would have been by launching a new public investigation. In the 1999 public survey on women’s health in Norway, it was concluded that the gender perspective was persistently deficient in medical development, research and public planning, as the proposers point out. The previous bourgeois government followed up the work of the panel in the form of the Women’s Health Strategy. The strategy describes the need for action in four main areas. These were: decision-making processes, knowledge development and dissemination, health practices and violence and abuse. The strategy has led to new research projects, including: through the strategic commitment to women’s health under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, where more than 50 million have been made available. DKK over 10 years. A national service of competence for women’s health in general and a national unit of expertise for minority health has been established to contribute to more equivalent healthcare for patients with a migrant background. In addition, a total of six new national competence services relevant to women’s health are established. An action plan on coerciveness and gender mutilation has been developed. Biological and physiological differences between the sexes can affect health and disease development, and the need for the type of health care needed may vary. The Health Directorate suggests that such differences should have implications for targeting prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. I have already asked the Health Directorate to base the gender perspective on the development of professional guides and guidelines where there is a knowledge coverage for this. So there's been a lot of positive progress in women's health in recent years. However, we need a more systematic overview of factors affecting women and men’s health — especially those patients with a migrant background. Here in Norway, we have good conditions for doing such health analyses because we have come a long way in developing central health registers. The government is on track to create the patient's healthcare. During the year, we provide three major messages: one on public health, one on primary health services and a national health and hospital plan. In addition, we are working on several strategies and action plans. The gender perspective and specific conditions relating to women will be affected in various ways in several of these documents. The forthcoming gender mainstreaming report will address women’s health in particular. There was a clear weakness in the previous government's equality message that it did not see the relationship between sex and health. I am pleased that the new government will promote the health perspective of gender equality policy. This, I believe, shows that the government is well-introduced with an offensive commitment to women’s health – or more precisely: to involve gender perspective in health care. Much is done, much is going on, and more is coming. Creating the patient’s healthcare means involving patients in everything we do, both in the meeting between individual patients and healthcare professionals and in the planning and development of healthcare. I ask a fundamental question in all my work as Minister of Health and Care: If the patient had to decide – how would we have managed and organized the work? It is by listening to patients, users and relatives — whether they are women or men, young or old — that we can better target health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e882	It is a pity that the government will not take the initiative in a new public inquiry into female health. The evaluation done by the Health Directorate should form the basis for just such a new investigation and strategy, focusing on what we know we have too little knowledge of. I want to mention two themes, despite the fact that they have been involved in the previous strategy: One is the health of immigrant women and the relationship with health services. The second is the sad connection between violence in close relationships and ill health in women. How will the Council of State work concretely to increase knowledge and improve its response to these groups, as well as to mention women's health in a chapter of the forthcoming gender mainstreaming message?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e891	The usual follow-up of a NOU is to promote a big message. The usual follow-up to a wholesale message is often the creation of strategies. In the two areas dealt with by the representative Knutsen, we are about to present a big message to the Stortinget, where the gender perspective and women and health will be discussed, as opposed to what one did in the big message on equality that the previous government presented, and which we withdrew. There, these two themes will be affected. In addition, both themes are covered by their own strategies: one is under the Ministry of Health and Welfare and is about immigrants and immigrant health, where women are a part of their own. The second is close cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection, the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which deals with concrete strategies for violence in close relations. So what often comes out of an investigation, we're already in the process. The most important thing is to implement measures — not always to start new investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e900	It's been 15 years since we had a public investigation on this topic, and if that's what we know, it's that knowledge in the health field is moving forward fast, and that the development of treatments is moving extremely fast. The hearing that the committee had showed that we don't know enough about women's health, and that we're not good enough to prioritize, in both research and treatment. The council says he's concerned about the patient's healthcare. Then I wonder: Is the Council satisfied with how far we have come to get female health as a separate theme of Norwegian health policy? How will the Council of State get new knowledge that is there all the time – as the representative Toppe also pointed out – when he does not want a public investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e911	I'm not satisfied with the state of things, and I also think that the representative heard in my post. I described a number of the work we are now doing, which also wants a woman's health perspective. What we are now discussing is whether launching a public investigation is the most effective means of achieving the goals that I feel everyone agrees on, or whether the most effective thing is to make greater efforts in the areas in which we already know we have challenges. In terms of knowledge about women’s health, I believe the answer to that – which I believe the representative also agrees with – is more women’s health research. We're now spending over 50 million. DKK in 19 different research projects under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council. We have also chosen to continue this as an input in 2015. The 2012 Joint Annual Report of Health Care Companies on Research and Innovation also shows that female health is an area in which a great deal of research is carried out in health businesses. If we are to know more, we need to research and not necessarily just investigate, based on the research that has already been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e918	There is a lot you could have asked, but I want to grasp what the representative Lysbakken said about the NOVA report, and that there is a serious discrimination in the municipalities when they are to give health and care services to the elderly, i.e. that older people are given less help if they have daughters. It was also true that women are generally given less help, if I think correctly. I was very surprised in Stortinget, because I asked the Minister for Gender Equality about this in a row, and she hadn't heard about that report and didn't know about the issue, so now there's going to be an equality message. This NOVA report has been mentioned several times in Stortinget, and I want to ask what the government is doing to counteract what has been reported.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e925	This will be a topic both in the gender equality message and in view of the work we are now doing in the primary health message, which the representative was also involved in. I am familiar with the report and believe that it is possible to have two thoughts in my head at the same time regarding the reason for that connection. I think it's dangerous if we just say that this means that the municipalities have a narrow view, because the municipalities provide care services based on the individual's situation. What this might as well be an expression is that we men take too little responsibility for our relatives, and that one sees that where one has daughters, the family stands up to a greater extent, and then dimensions the municipality services after that. Therefore, it is not just a responsibility for the individual municipality – it is not least a basis for a discussion of the responsibilities that men take as a relative in those kinds of situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e932	Because the Left is in favour of the government parties and the majority in this matter, I would first of all like to say that our position is well anchored in the Left Women's Team. We have had a broad debate on this in the party, and it is the women who have given me the position we have taken. There's talk of investigations and a little bit about history, while we want to go forward, and we want action and action. State Council Party colleague Kristin Ørmen Johnsen and Ruth Grung from the Workers' Party invited a number of business actors to look at the opportunities Norway has for innovation and nutrition related to health. There were a lot of women, and what many people say is that we have a lot of opportunities. What opportunities do the Councils see to create action, development and innovation here — including at women’s premises — and to give Norway a position? There are great opportunities in a world moving in the direction of 9 billion, and many women and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e941	I totally agree with that. Now I wasn't present at the conference, but I can guess, based on what I've been through in the past, that what is highlighted as a very clear competitive advantage for Norway is that we have very many and good medical quality records, and records that provide the basis for research. The advantage in Norway is that these include the whole population to a very large extent. They do not distinguish between sexes, in the sense that both sexes have access to registration in the registers, and it is not that only those who have the money to buy health care are included in the registers. This provides a very different basis for providing a user and gender perspective in the following research. It's also important to bet on those areas where we see that women are overrepresented. Among other things, we do. made in the budget now adopted together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where we have set aside 20 million. kr to start work on multidisciplinary diagnosis within part of the diseases where women are found to be overrepresented, but where they often do not [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e948	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e952	Now we are discussing different measures in response to problems that an active effort to acquire knowledge about gender differences has given us. Not least in the State Council, Bent Höie’s field, new knowledge of how health and care services are distributed differently between women and men is crucial in order to pursue a more equal and equivalent health policy. I expect the Council of State to agree with that, and therefore many of us are a little surprised at how systematic this government has been working on cutting down measures that increase our knowledge of gender equality challenges. Therefore, my specific question to the Council of State if he will be committed to getting back to a project like Equal Opportunities municipalities, which provided important insights into precisely health and care policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e957	First of all, the gender equality message that we are now presenting, which replaces it as a subtraction, from the previous government, will at all contain health in a gender perspective, as opposed to the gender equality message that the red-green government presented. This means that the type of theme will be highlighted in the equality message in a completely different way. It is important to develop gender awareness in the field of health, how gender affects health. The funds now being allocated to research, including: the earmarked funds for research through regional health companies mean that we have put the money into areas and diagnosis that are very clearly, to a very large extent, related to female diseases, such as fatigue diseases as ME and in other areas, and where we clearly see that it has not been given the status it has required in the past. That is why we have also given priority to: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e964	The number is out. The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e969	The government’s vision is to create the patient’s healthcare, and the Ministry of Health and Welfare has as one of its objectives the inclusion of gender perspective in all relevant activities. I believe that the focus now needs to be on following up the 1999 NOU, the health of women in Norway, and there are several areas that remain. Starting work with a NOU now – it's usually a year and a half – can put important areas on hold, and we actually have new knowledge that we can implement. Research sets important premises for women’s health and conditions in society in general. We have very good health records in Norway. It is important to clarify that there is a significant research effort aimed at women’s health. It's a broad and good bet. The important thing now is actually to implement some of these results. There are several strategies to provide a good knowledge base in the field of research, including: Norwegian Research Council. Research on women’s health is a strategic field of action, and it is allocated earmarked funds. Over the last ten years, more than 50 million have been used. kr for this, among others research on mental health, social inequality and breast cancer. Research on women is a priority in national health companies through governance requirements from the Ministry, and the Stortinget granted 622 million in 2014. kr earmarked for research in regional health establishments. The budget was also strengthened in 2015. There are, among other things: priority research activity related to musculo-skeletal disorders, with which women are overrepresented. There are several centres of expertise focusing on women-related diseases, such as: National Centre of Competence for Women’s Health, established by State Council Sylvia Brustad in 2006. This centre has significant research activities and also outsourced activities related to the dissemination of competences. The National Research Ethics Committee has also established its own guidelines for the inclusion of women in medical research. I think it is important to point out that the Health Directorate is now reviewing the women’s health strategy and is about to take new action. I am also pleased that the gender equality report will now contain a separate chapter on women’s health, and that priority is given to research on occupational health, immigrant health, not least on women’s use of healthcare and research related to the use of medicines. [[President clubs]] The research results have to be followed up...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e980	Time's up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e983	When you listen to the debate here today, it may sound as if there is no kind of knowledge-gathering about women's health. That's not right. When we first discuss women's health, we should also take into account that there are gender differences in the medicinal product area. We have obligations to ensure that lack of knowledge does not discriminate between effects and side effects between the sexes. Since the much-discussed NOU on women’s health since 1999, several important things have taken place that have led to increased knowledge of women’s drug use in Norway: A national prescription register has been established to provide access to information on gender differences in medicinal products use. The Norwegian mother-child study is an important source of knowledge on the use of medicinal products and the safety of pregnancy. The National Medical Research Ethics Committee has adopted guidelines to include women in medical research. In addition, access by the general public to manufacturer-neutral information on medicinal products for pregnancy has been strengthened through the Safe Mammamedicin.no service. in the case of RELIS medicinal product information centres. National prescription registry is a very valuable source of pharmaceutical information, which shows that there are significant gender differences in withdrawals of medicinal products subject to prescription. In 2013, four times as many women as men recovered migraine drugs. Twice as many women as men pulled out antidepressants, and twice as many women as men pulled out sleeping medications. Whether this is due to differences in morbidity, age composition, diagnosis or health behaviour is currently unknown. There is still limited knowledge of the sexual effects of medicinal products, including adverse reactions. In Norway, the Swedish Medicines Agency monitors adverse drug reactions and disseminates new knowledge about these adverse reactions to healthcare professionals. Some recent examples of knowledge of adverse reactions relevant to female health: there is an increased risk of lactic acid poisoning in metformin users, the prognosis for women appears to be lower than for men. A total of 27 messages out of 37 were valid for women. Of the women, 48 pst died, of the men 30 pst. There is increased knowledge of the risk of blood clots using pills, the risk is estimated to be approximately one case in 10,000 women per year. The risk of blood clots increases slightly with the use of a combination player — an interesting mention of the debate on free prevention. Norway is at the forefront of research into gender differences in drug use and medicinal products for children and pregnant women. Here, there is still limited knowledge, and it is therefore gratifying that at the University of Oslo, there is a separate research group working on this. We are, in fact, far advanced in this area. There is a widespread international view that women should not be protected from research but be protected by research. This position should also be flagged high in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1009	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1023	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. The President will also propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1030	I would first like to thank the Committee, and not least the Centre Party, which has raised an important issue. Medically assisted treatment was introduced in 1998. The aim was to provide people with opioid abuse, improve their quality of life and reduce the harm caused by the abuse they were already in a way enslaved to, and reduce overdose deaths. Today, 7000 patients are covered by the LAR scheme, and the scheme includes largely heroin-dependent patients. Seizure and addiction research centres, SERAF, in 2014, said that the number of people treated in the LAR is no longer increasing, as it was until 2011. Developments have tended to make it easier to get in and get treatment. At the same time, few are printed out of the same form of treatment against their will. The last SERAF report shows that LAR’s ability to maintain patients in treatment — approximately 98 pst. are now being treated. Knowledge summaries show that LAR reduces deaths, crime and morbidity, and several types of disease are better treated when heroin users enter LAR, because they are also receiving help for other types of disease. At the same time, the Committee notes that the aim of this treatment has been to get patients away from drug problems and into abstinence. Now this is kind of flipped. We have fewer who go out of treatment. It's easy to get in, but it's not that easy to get out. The setting from the beginning was that it would be easy to get out too. 66 pst. LAR patients are treated by their prescriber. Therefore, decision-makers have a central place in LAR treatment. However, when the committee was consulted, it turned out that several decision-makers do not want or discharge responsibility for LAR patients. The SERAF study shows that decision-makers want specialist healthcare to strengthen the competence and quality of follow-up of patients with LAR treatment. It is good that the government has announced its own specialty in drug addiction medicine in the medical profession, which can address that particular issue, so that patients do not become ballistics in the system. The LAR programme shows that pregnant women receiving LAR receive infants who are unfortunately suffering from neonatal withdrawal syndrome and on average require 46 days for treatment. We know little about how these kids feel in the long term. Therefore, in the hearing, the Nursing Association asked for more knowledge, especially about these kids. A minority in the Committee therefore also support the Medical Association's proposal for free contraception for women who are part of the LAR system, precisely to reduce the number of young people who are struggling, whose desire was to receive help in a different way. It is a fact that 100 of the patients in LAR treatment today — in 2013 approx. 100 – dies during LAR treatment. But the reality is that very many people in LAR treatment get older and older because they get help with other types of diseases. Therefore, patients receiving LAR treatment are often elderly and have a complex form of disease and therefore die of other types of disease. At the same time, we see that there is a leakage of drugs as a result of LAR treatment, and that there is a problem that the Committee needs to address. Several hearing bodies, including: Actis and Blue Cross, point out that there are some patients who get drugs on their way. Therefore, we see the importance of individual dose adjustment and regulation within the LAR. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the issue of abstinence as a goal, which is the intention of LAR treatment, and wants it still. Otherwise, I want to address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1053	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1056	The representative’s proposal has provided the Committee with increased insight into the LAR process. The consultation provided important input from the professional community and from organisations representing drug addicts, and thus also from a user perspective. It is gratifying to note that LAR treatment has provided an increased quality of life for a very large proportion of those who have had to cope with drug dependence for many years. It has given them the opportunity to gradually increase control of their own lives and to a more dignified life, but there are still challenges. It is a serious system failure when only 34 pst. LAR patients have individual levels. It is also a system failure, which the rapporteur was also concerned with, when it turns out that it is problematic for many LAR patients to have a permanent practitioner. It's about some of our most vulnerable and vulnerable fellow human beings. It's the very ones who might need the overall grip to gradually get out of addiction. It is a demanding job for the butcher, as well as for the health professionals, to follow up these patients. That's why the whole operation is so important. Over 90 pst. of those who are addicted to alcohol, the Russians seek to escape from a life they do not handle. It is therefore important that, in parallel with drug treatment, we also need to focus on and correct measures, so that they can manage what caused them to seek the drug in their time. They also need long-term training in completely elementary things such as mastering daily life, bottling, establishing social relationships and experiencing real joy without rushing in front of them. Lack of differentiated housing and activities to fill a drug-free life, as we see it today, prevents more people from being able to pay off the increased and good medical treatment that we have gradually received. The working party is committed to strengthening the scrollbar. It's about research efforts, but we're also very positive about developing our own medical speciality to increase attractiveness, so doctors apply for this field. One of the most difficult aspects of LAR treatment is the combination when those on LAR treatment become pregnant at the same time, when we know what consequences it can have for the child later. The working party is quite clear that we cannot impose stricter requirements on women under the LAR than on other patients who live a life where they are subjected to great opportunities for lasting harm. However, when we have that knowledge, action should be taken with more information and guidance on safe prevention. That is why, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, we have proposed free prevention. We have listened to the trade unions, and the Labour Party believes that, rather than having a full review of the LAR scheme, it is better to use the resources in the areas that should be improved. These include rehabilitation, the prevention of women, the provision of health services in prisons, the choice of drugs and the control of methadone delivery. The general control measures are in the process of discontinuing the spaces. It was made clear during the hearing. The measures should be graduated from the individual patient and balanced the individual’s freedom and social needs. It will also have a positive effect on rehabilitation – especially, as I repeat once again, if it is combined with housing and activity, and not least that they also have control over debt and their own economy. The Labour Party also wants the Government to look into the proposal of the Pharmacy Association on a national tariff for LAR deployment and monitoring of LAR in order to ensure non-discrimination and increased predictability. We also want the Council of State to take a closer look at input from the Patient and User Ombudsman, who believes that auxiliaries need to take greater responsibility to guide precisely these most vulnerable drug users about their patient rights. Finally, I would like to recommend the proposals that the Labour Party has made together with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1084	There is reason to ask questions about the functioning of the LAR scheme after its intention and whether the quality of the offer is ensured. We agree that more knowledge and research on LAR is needed. Only 34 pst. LAR patients have, as mentioned, individual levels. There is something to show that drug users have not been prioritised in recent years. Against this background, there is reason to recall that an escalating plan is to be drawn up for the drug field and that it is planned to be submitted during 2015. LAR will be an important theme of this escalation plan for the drug field and could contribute to the quality assurance of the provision of the LAR scheme. LAR, on the right, believes that it is a good offer for those with opiate dependence. Several reports show that the majority of the LAR scheme is well assisted. Nevertheless, it has long been clear that the rehabilitation part of the LAR has been insufficient for some users. The government has strengthened the drug field in many fields, and there are many measures under way by the government to enhance the quality of treatment. The Health Directorate has already been given the task of starting work on revising the guidelines for LAR. The issue of supply of medicinal products will also be included here. In April 2014, the Minister of Health launched a national overdose strategy. This strategy included a number of measures to reduce overdoses. The government and the cooperation parties have significantly strengthened the drug services in the 2015 state budget. In addition, regional health businesses have made acquisitions in the drug field, in line with the government’s political platform. Contracts for the purchase of at least 200 more treatment sites from private institutions have already been concluded. The government recently promoted the proposal on free treatment choice. This scheme shall apply only to mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment. This will come during 2015. The introduction of free treatment will make daily treatment easier for addicts, including LAR patients. Many wait too long to get help. Reduced waiting times will result in faster treatment initiation. Shorter waiting times also reduce the risk of overdose. The right will refer to the above measures and, on this basis, does not provide a basis for review of LAR beyond the work in progress in the Directorate for Health. In addition, I would like to stress that LAR should be an important theme in the escalation plan for the drug field. A unanimous committee points to the problem of drug leakage as a result of the LAR. It is agreed that increasing the level of individualisation and regulation of doses of LARs may prevent leakages into the illicit market. Of the deaths among patients in the LAR scheme, 24 out of 98 deaths were considered overdose in 2013. According to SIRUS, after 2009, there has been a halve of heroin-induced deaths. At the same time, the number of methadone-related overdose deaths has increased markedly since 2010. According to SIRUS statistics, deaths were due to heroin consumption in 26 p.m. of the cases, natural medicinal product opiates in 21 pst. of the cases and methadone in 24 pst. of the cases. So there are as many people who die from LAR drug overdoses as from heroin doses. This is a challenge that, if not managed, could undermine the entire LAR scheme. It also shows that we need to look at how drug treatment is done and how drugs are distributed. This government prioritises the use of rubrics, and several measures are already in place to strengthen the treatment of this patient group. We perceive that what the proposers want is already under way. I would like to thank you for agreeing to give a stronger priority to drug users. It is gratifying to note that the government's policy to strengthen the rights of drug users is widely endorsed by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1110	In 1998, the LAR scheme was introduced, which at the time was intended for the few – approx. 1500 was said that time. As of today, we have passed 7,000 people in the LAR. The idea was good, we wanted the scheme to improve the quality of life for individuals, reduce the damage caused by abuse and reduce overdose deaths. Although the number of people within the system is high, and even though the system is far from perfect, I believe that too many people have achieved what we wanted. Unfortunately, I experience the debate as little nuanced, and it is all too much about either glorifying the arrangement or condemning it. The truth is, I feel more complex. But first, for years we waited for the red-greens to deliver a drug report. When it finally came, many were disappointed. Some 70 organisations came to the hearing, and they were very much in agreement on the challenges and shortcomings of the notification. The opposition promoted about 50 proposals, all of which were voted down. We have therefore lost valuable time. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party joined forces for elections in an overall care for the Russ. We started the escalation already in our first budget, and the work on an escalation plan was started. There have been a number of dialogue meetings on the theme, and a web page has been created where everyone who wants it can make recordings. The exposure is enormous, and many feel hungry at being heard. Relatives and users have been important contributors to this work. The fact that the Centre Party now wants to implement concrete measures is good. A escalating plan for the whole drug field has been under work for a longer time. The proposal therefore comes too late and is – as I see it – too narrow. The tranquillity must be seen as a whole. Drug users face the same challenges and needs as drug-free people. I also think that the central party's approach to the matter is negative. In fact, many have had a much better life, and many live completely normal life – no matter what it may be – within the LAR. The simple stories tell us the shades from heaven to hell. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the committee wrote that they have noticed that LAR treatment has contributed to increased quality of life and to a more valuable life without illicit drugs for very many – and that the professional community believes this is the most effective form of treatment, which also makes those addicted to drugs susceptible to further treatment and health care. Especially the last thing I've been busy about. Although many people live good lives in LAR, it's not without side effects to take these drugs every day every year. Therefore, at any time, there are those who feel so strong and secure in their situation that they have wanted to step down and end up with their medicine. This offer has been almost non-existent. In recent years, however, some have tried to create such offers, but funding for them has not been in line with the system. It is therefore important that such offers are now accepted and supported. Many have criticised the system of reference to drug leakage. A proper review of this I support. But we're going to be careful to punish everyone with increased demands for retrieval and controls because someone abuses the trust they're given. The regime is already very controlling and limits the ability of individuals to decide freely over their own time and place of residence. The fact that some people misuse trust is usually about the fact that too many people do not need follow-up and assistance – and lack an individual plan on the road further. The proposers point out that only 34 pst. LAR patients have an individual plan. Although it is voluntary to have such a plan, I agree that this number seems too low. That is why, in this Chamber, I have repeatedly put forward proposals for action to ensure that this right is honoured. Every time, the Central Party and the majority have voted against. I assume that the importance of an individual plan will be made clear and strengthened in the escalation plan. At last, it's about post-protection and follow-up. Many municipalities here have a way to go. When you live your new life without alcohol and without the friends you've had in recent years, you have to fill your days with new content, and the past has to be cleaned up. Consequently, post-clearance protection will have a central place in the work-in-progress of the ramp-up plan. In addition, the Health Directorate has been given the task of revising the guidelines in the LAR, including the issues surrounding the distribution of medicine. Professional environments, users, organisations and municipalities shall share their experience before the Health Directorate finishes its work. A lot is under work, and I meet with the joy of the final result of all of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1144	The purpose of the LAR scheme was to increase the quality of life of opioid users, to reduce the damage caused by opioid abuse and to reduce the number of overdose deaths. For many, the LAR scheme is a good one and currently covers 7 000 patients. The search light has been directed at the quality of treatment, but also at the choice of medication. The objective of treatment has evolved from being drug-free as a target to being more acceptable for harm reduction as a target. The 2013 SERAF report shows that LAR has a high capacity to maintain patients in treatment, and that, as before, LAR is successful in terms of social stabilisation in housing and financial management. The report also shows that the mean age of LAR patients is increasing and that the incidence of severe somatic disease is high. The dominant cause of death in patients in LAR is severe somatic disease. However, of patients who died in LAR in 2013, 24 out of 98 cases were perceived as overdose. According to SIRUS, since 2009, it has been a halve of the number of deaths caused by heroin use as a cause of death. At the same time, however, the number of methadone-related overdose deaths has increased since 2010. There are now as many people who die of an overdose of LAR medicine as heroin doses. We don't know enough where the drug comes from – whether it's legally prescribed by a doctor or bought illegally. This is a development that we can't accept. All patients with complex disorders, where multi-institutional cooperation is important, are entitled to an individual level. Studies show that only 34 pst. LAR patients have a developed individual plan. This shows that the quality of supply is too poor. A third of LAR patients suffer from severe physical distress, and many also suffer from mental distress such as anxiety and depressive suffering. However, there is no sign that the organisation of LARs in healthcare professionals has increased interaction with psychiatric health services or other specialities in healthcare providers. The interaction with the municipal care services is also too weak. LAR provision in prison also needs an evaluation. There have been many concerns from the criminal services that resaling and distribution of LAR drugs are common and that this can contribute to new recruitment. LAR women are another area where new knowledge is needed. The guidelines for pregnant women in LAR recommend that pregnant women continue their substitution treatment as long as they are pregnant. However, many of the newborns need treatment for neonatal withdrawal syndrome with an average duration of treatment of 46 days. We need to know more about how these children are going in the longer term. The centre party suggests free contraception for women in LAR – and gets almost multiple votes, if Left and SV, who want free contraception for other women, had voted in favour. A more liberal LAR has its consequences. We must therefore be willing to evaluate the control procedures and follow-up of weakly functioning patients, who are too much to be printed out to a municipal auxiliaries providing inadequate follow-up and care. We need to discuss the need for differentiated control legislation for the different medicines. We need to assess the need for an own fee for the supply of medicine from pharmacies, so that one can set requirements for extradition and monitoring. The central party will have a review of the entire LAR scheme, to ensure that the scheme functions according to its intention, and that the quality of the supply is ensured. It is positive that the number of heroin doses has decreased, but it is alarming that today there are as many overdoses with LAR drugs as with heroin. A lot of LAR medicine is on the verge, and it seems clear that LAR has not averted as many deaths as one could expect. More knowledge about LAR is needed: how does the follow-up of LAR patients work and control of the drugs they receive? How will LAR patients ensure follow-up in municipalities? How does LAR work in prison? How's it going with babies of mothers in LAR? Is it so that LAR medicine itself takes life? With this review, we could guarantee the quality of the supply. Our proposal for a wide-ranging review was supported by, among other things. Actis, the Blue Cross, the Church's Bymition, patient and user environment, and the Phoenician Russian political tank. Even if the proposal is defeated, the Committee agrees with the many challenges that we are presenting, and I hope that the Minister of Health will ensure that the elements that have been taken up are evaluated when the Health Directorate is evaluating the LAR regulation, and in the escalating plan for the drugs and the drugs field that the government is going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1167	The LAR scheme is important for many. It is therefore important to address it regularly for political discussion. But an overall review, as the Center Party wants now, is not something Left believes it is important to use resources on where we are now in Norwegian care. It has not been said that the scheme is optimal – the R in the LAR system does not work well enough at all. There are too many medicines available to an illegal market, and too many addicted women become pregnant involuntarily in the transition to LAR. The LAR scheme is well documented both nationally and internationally. Research centres on drugs and addiction, SERAF, stated in the consultation round that there are few, if any, treatment measures in the Norwegian health system that are followed as closely as research-based national status reports such as LAR. On the other hand, we support a review with a view to clarifying the division of labour between municipalities and specialist health services. The efforts of municipalities in the areas of follow-up, activity and housing need to be strengthened. At the same time, specialist healthcare needs to strengthen efforts in the field of investigation and treatment. We also believe that there is a need for enhanced cooperation between multidisciplinary specialised treatment, mental health protection and somatics. Daily availability is important for LAR patients, and we in the Left believe there is a need to strengthen access to flexible beds and user-controlled beds. We also believe that there is a need for a review of the follow-up of pregnant women and families with children in the LAR in order to ensure good growth conditions for children and that women do not become pregnant involuntarily in the vulnerable transition to medically assisted rehabilitation. It is also a concern that lowthreshold substitution treatment services vary outside the two largest cities, and we believe it is important to provide real access to lowthreshold services across the country. It is therefore important to start discussing a greater differentiation of the LAR scheme for both those in need of harm-reduction measures and for several low-threshold services. We also believe that there is a need to control the distribution of drugs to prevent leakages, injuries to third parties and overdoses. A prior check on distribution is better than a subsequent check on patients. However, as many have said, we would stress that comprehensive control measures can disincentive LAR patients and make the rehabilitation process more difficult. The left believes that we need more knowledge about how patients are doing in time after the end of LAR treatment, and we believe that there is a need for more research in this area. Furthermore, today, the Left has promoted a proposal for a representative with eleven measures for more humane care, and the LAR system is not a very large part of those measures. We believe that there are many other measures in Norwegian drug care that it is important to debate now, and that a comprehensive review of the LAR scheme is therefore not what we are now giving priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1184	In this case, I think some contradictions go a little across the usual dividing lines, and I would like to say that I agree with a lot of what both the representative Kjöna Kjos and the representative Kjenseth have said in the debate. I believe, on behalf of SV, that the tone of the proposed total is too negative for LAR. We have a basic positive view of LAR. It doesn't mean, of course, that there aren't major challenges, but LAR has been successful for many people and contributes to a more dignified everyday life for many people. We also believe that this will have to be a very central part of our wide range of treatment provision in the future. Then it's very important – across the debate on what kind of treatment works best – that we do manage to gather on more resources and better aftercare in the years to come. In addition, we need to have this discussion about device, and there is our clear view that we need both treatment with drug-free treatment as a goal and treatment, and as I said, we have a positive view of LAR. Our challenge is to make sure that the way into the LAR is not unnecessarily difficult, but also to make sure that there is a way out of the LAR for those who have the motivation and health to get to it. Therefore, we agree with the various hearing bodies that said that a comprehensive review of the LAR is hardly needed today, but that there may be a need for reviews of single pages at LAR. Then many people are particularly concerned about the R in the LAR, about rehabilitation, and so are we. We believe that there could be a good basis for a separate review of that piece, and there is a need for strong political attention around it in the future. It is also emphasised that there are so few LAR patients who have individual plans. It's absolutely vital to do something about it. I note that the Progress Party uses it that it has not before been given a majority in favour of proposing it as a justification for voting against it. I hope that means that the government will come up with something material soon when it comes to securing more individual planes. It is absolutely essential that we make sure that the LAR not only becomes a storage arrangement for those who have entered the scheme, but also a system of moving forward from for those who are able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1194	I would like to thank the representatives Toppe and Lundtigen for addressing an important topic, which has led – after following the debate – to a good discussion, such as the follow-up to the hearing, on benefits and disadvantages and challenges as well as positive aspects of the LAR. LAR has saved many lives and has helped many opiate addicts out of serious drug dependence after the offer became nationwide in 1998. Today, more than 7,000 opiate addicts are included in the LAR. LAR to opiate addicts is the treatment that saves most lives. At the same time, there has been an increase in the number of overdose deaths reported by representatives, where LAR drugs have been involved or a direct cause of death. These are mainly addicts who are not in the LAR but who have received LAR drugs on their way. LAR patients also sell their own medicines to others. This underlines the importance of having good control when supplying LAR medicinal products. But I also agree with those representatives who have stressed that this must be balanced against the fact that the LAR should also be a system within which it is possible to live a free and independent life. When addressing the Communication on an overall drug policy in 2013, the Stortinget supported the proposal to develop a five-year national overdose strategy. The strategy, which I had the pleasure of launching last April, contains a number of measures to reduce the number of overdose deaths. One of the measures is the test project with naloxone nasal spray in Bergen and Oslo. The project aims to provide spray to users, relatives, police and health professionals and at the same time training on how to use it. Since June last year, naloxone has been used by approx. 60 overdose cases. Other relevant measures in the strategy are to stimulate good control of substitution treatment and improved delivery systems of LARs. The nine municipalities with a particularly high number of overdose deaths will receive State grants to cooperate on local strategies for overdose deaths. The State Institute for Drug Research shall evaluate the project along the way. From 2010, a separate regulation for LAR was established, and the Health Directorate has issued two national guidelines and a guide: one on LAR in the case of opioid dependence and one on pregnant women and follow-up of the family until the child starts school. The supervisor is about the delivery of a substitution medicinal product within and outside LAR. The regulation and guidelines and the guide have helped to improve the delivery of medicinal products in LAR, but at the same time we know that today's system can improve. Therefore, the Directorate-General for Health will look at issues related to the supply of medicinal products when they are due to revise the supervisor. Work starts in ours, and the directorate will gain views from users, clinicians and researchers on what they think is most important to focus on in the audit. In the government’s policy platform, there are several measures that will improve the supply of opiate addicts as well. We're increasing the capacity of private institutions. Regional health enterprises have carried out acquisitions in the drug field in 2014, so that a total of 200 additional treatment sites in private institutions have now been agreed. We have recently presented the proposal for a reform of free treatment options and sent it to the hearing and promoted it to the Stortinget. We aim to introduce the scheme during 2015. This scheme shall apply only in the fields of mental health protection and drug treatment. We are also working on an escalating plan for the drug field, which I will present during the year. I have noticed that a joint committee believes that pregnant women with drug problems should be given an increased opportunity to receive treatment, with the aim of being free. We're taking this into account in the escalation plan. Another theme is whether we have sufficient knowledge of the long-term effect on children born in LAR. I have registered that parts of the committee and some professional environments have raised the question, and I have therefore already invited the Health Directorate and others involved to a separate meeting on this topic. A significant proportion of LAR patients need daily treatment in multidisciplinary specialised treatment, TSB. We know that many people could be treated more quickly if waiting times were reduced. We are in the process of following up on the overdose strategy and measures of the government platform. At the same time, we're working to bring down the waiting times. The R in the LAR needs to be strengthened, and this will be an essential part of the work that we are doing in connection with the escalation plan for the drug field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1225	It is particularly positive that so many addicts have entered health care, but at the same time it is alarming that the public has so little control over the effectiveness of the treatment services provided. So the question to the Council of State is: When do we get the quality indicators in drug treatment and a systematic follow-up and official control to ensure that drug addicts receive good and proper individual treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1232	We are also working to establish good quality records in the field of drugs and mental health, which are the two major areas where we do not currently have good quality records. Then I also believe that we need to strengthen the offer within what we know works. It's not like we're completely without knowledge and experience of the different treatment methods. LAR is one of the tools we have in this area that really saves a lot of lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1239	I would first like to thank the Minister of Health and Health, because I think he was positive in his post, especially what he said about asking the Directorate of Health to look at the long-term effects for children born to mother in LAR. There has also been a discussion in the committee about this by offering free contraception to women in LAR, and I think that is a very interesting topic. I experience that the trade union community, those who work in the LAR, wants this. They see it as untimely that this particular group itself has to pay for prevention. Politically, it is also a little special, as we have several discussions about giving free contraception to other – healthy – women. There the Center Party has been in line with Right if not to offer it. But here the Center Party wants us to offer free prevention – not as a requirement, but as an offer. What does the Minister of Health say?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1248	It's one of the issues where we've challenged the different representatives and professional environments, and we're going to meet on this week, if I don't remember completely wrong, where we want different assessments of the proposal. I am very pleased that one states that in case this will be a voluntary offer, which you can use for example. to plan your pregnancy in a better way than is possible if you cannot afford to buy contraception. So I think it is an exciting proposal that will be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1255	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1271	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1280	I would like to begin by thanking the Centre Party for giving the entire Committee greater insight into the challenges of antibiotic resistance for our ability to provide good health care. Without effective antibiotics, more people will die from common infectious diseases, and it will affect surgical treatment, early birth and cancer treatment, often entirely dependent on active antibiotics in its treatment. The Committee knows that the Minister of Health is working on a strategy plan to promote it for the Storting, and the Committee believes that it must be an advantage to have such clear support from an overall committee as to the importance of prioritising this field in the future. The Committee expects an overall and cross-sectoral approach. In addition to human medicine, animal husbandry and aquaculture, efforts must be directed towards the food industry and the environment in a broad sense. In addition to specialist health services, the health plan must also include permanent doctors, nursing homes, district medical centres, community health services and health centres — in and of the whole primary health field. We have also learned that Sweden has succeeded in reducing the use of antibiotics, especially in the treatment of respiratory infections in children, and that the Netherlands is the country with the lowest consumption in Europe, which is 30 pst. below our level. Targeted policies are effective. We have a lot to learn from others and not least from coordinating ourselves with global initiatives in the field of action, as well as in research. The Committee calls for antibiotic resistance to be addressed in the notification of medicinal products, further considering the introduction of diagnostic codes for all prescriptions of antibiotics, and for antibiotic use to be assessed as a quality indicator of the specialist healthcare system. The Committee took particular note of the input from the Institute for Public Health to establish a national system for real-time analyses of microbiological test responses with the aim of rapidly introducing measures for the control of seasonal epidemics and outbreaks. The Committee considers that the development of new antibiotics and vaccines is important in order to combat infections in the future. The Committee has been informed that 30 million should be set aside. kr over five years for this purpose. It should be a priority task to raise vaccine coverage in the population. A proposal we have received is to provide doctors with a vaccination rate to achieve this goal. The Committee also notes that, with regard to the proper use of antibiotics, we lack data from the municipal health and care services, and we look forward to the creation of a register that will provide key data from the primary health service. We look forward to the follow-up of Health Care21 and that we are able to lift the primary health field. It refers to very different practices in the prescription of antibiotics. Data records should be designed in such a way that they can be actively used by the individual physician and health care institution to assess their own prescription practices. The majority of the Committee is concerned about the risk of increased mobility across national borders, both when travelling and in relation to treatment, in view of the risk of spread of antibiotic resistance. This was one of the reasons why the Workers' Party opposed the increased liberalisation of free hospital choice within the EEA area. The majority of the Committee calls on the government by 2015 to promote a plan aimed at reducing antibiotic use in the population by 30 pst. by the end of 2020. I would particularly like to highlight proposal 5 on the e-Bug programme aimed at schooling. The programme has been developed by the European network to reduce unnecessary use of antibiotics, of which Norway is part. The programme is fully translated into Norwegian curricula, but needs financial support for distribution. It is a public initiative, and in other countries the departments concerned have helped to legitimise the offer itself. So we hope that Norway at our Minister of Health will follow this up, because attitude work usually has the greatest effect when we start with our own children and really with all children and young people. Finally, I am promoting the proposals on which the Labour Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1312	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1315	I would also like to thank the Committee for being so much in agreement on such an important matter. Now we do not agree on all the proposals, but we agree that this is a real, great threat. The threat of antibiotic resistance cannot be addressed in healthcare alone, but in cooperation with other sectors, such as agriculture, aquaculture, research and industry. The threat of anti-bitotic resistance cannot be addressed in Norway alone, but in cooperation with other countries. This is a global problem that – if not solved – will be able to stop modern surgery and cancer medicine and ensure that infectious diseases again become a common cause of death, even in our part of the world. We note that there is a case for limiting the prevalence of antibiotic resistance in several committees. What we need is an overall cross-sectoral strategy to meet this challenge. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister of Health and Welfare has already taken on a managerial responsibility and started such work in cooperation with the relevant departments. A report from a cross-sectoral expert group on antibiotic resistance was presented in August 2014. It had been assigned to address knowledge related to Norwegian conditions. In order to strengthen the follow-up to the recommendations contained in the report, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has made use of funds to do so. A medicinal product notification shall be submitted to the Storting during 2015. We have expectations that antibiotic resistance will become a topic in the notification, and that in this context the introduction of diagnostic codes for all antibiotics prescriptions will also be assessed. 85 pst. all antibiotics are prescribed outside the hospital. As a result, antibiotics are now prescribed twice as often as necessary for simple infections in this country. In Sweden, a reduction in this proportion has been achieved through active work. As a result, primary health care needs to be given the attention needed to ensure that unnecessary prescriptions in Norway go down. Health businesses and hospitals need to be more responsible for their own antibiotic use. They should have consumer statistics and an overview of resistance conditions available. A strategy for the proper use of antibiotics should ensure that the guidelines on antibiotic use are implemented and complied with. The hearing on the occasion of the case may indicate that compliance with the guidelines on antibiotic use is more accidental. As the Medical Association says, it is a management responsibility to get this in place, but after all, it is the individual doctor who is responsible for his own prescription practice. We can decide what we want, but if the doctors don't follow it in practice, we're equidistant. One may be depressed by reading about parents who deliberately fail to vaccinate their children. Child diseases are something you have to go through, they say, while undermining the vaccines, which is one of the greatest advances in medicine. The boycotting of the vaccine programme is not a choice on behalf of itself and its children — it affects all citizens, not least those who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. The flock immunity that vaccinates gives is a grave around several infectious diseases. Preventing the spread of infections and keeping the infection pressed down will reduce antibiotic use and thus prevent the development of antibiotic resistance. A global example: every day more than 400 children die of measles, and it is usually not measles themselves, but secondary infections such as diarrhoea, pneumonia and meningitis that kill. It must therefore be a priority task to work for high levels of vaccine coverage in the population, both nationally and internationally. It is a paradox that parents in Norway are campaigning against vaccination, while Norway is contributing financially to give more poor people in developing countries the same vaccines. A total accumulation is behind the importance of meeting the threat of antibiotic resistance on a broad front. I believe that this problem cannot be solved in the healthcare system alone, but across several sectors. A multidisciplinary approach is therefore important, but perhaps most important of all it is to work on attitudes among parents, health professionals, in research and industrial activities. However, we do not agree that the most important thing now is to provide an action plan for the health system. We will await the work already under way in the departments and show that the Minister of Health has announced that an action plan will be assessed in this context. We do not need sectoral thinking, but cooperation — national and global — to combat the threat posed by antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1332	First of all, I would also like to point out that this is a very important field, an important area to address and not least to continue working with. All the honours of the proposers in this matter to put an important theme on the agenda. The theme is so important that the government started this work long before the proposal for a representative was promoted. This will include: by the letter of the Council of State to the Committee dated 26 January, referring to the work done in the framework of the strategy that the Government is currently developing. It was in connection with, among other things, 18 measures, which were obtained last year by the Council of State and which in many ways now form the basis for the cross-sectoral and cross-ministerial work to be carried out. It is the four departments of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and the Ministry of Climate and Environment that are involved in most of this work. So that's how part of these suggestions becomes a little bit like turning open the doors. But anyway, it's a very important topic. The representative of the Labour Party was in connection with proposal No. 5 in the e-Bug programme and how to contribute to its implementation. The e-Bug programme is a free programme, i.e. that it is openly available on the network for educational purposes, classroom purposes, related to demonstrations and PowerPoint presentations. So it's already there. It is possible at present that there is only one English version there, but it is at least openly available to be used in all the contexts you want. And as I said, it's a free program, it's clearly defined within the e-Bug bit that's made. I think the most important thing if we're going to get on with these things is getting an international job in place. In Norway, important work is being done in a number of areas, but the most important of all is international work — putting in place good regulation, ensuring that we have good framework conditions and control mechanisms, and reducing the use of antibiotics in a controlled and proper way. If we don't get to that, we can all just imagine what's going to happen. As a result, in the future we have nothing to do with treating the major infectious diseases. We have to focus on this very important field at all times, and that is exactly what the Council of State also specifies in its letter when it outlines a number of measures within the field, measures that are in many ways much of the same as the minority in the Committee asks for. Strengthening the knowledge base by identifying the environmental impact on the spread of antibiotic resistance. There is a need to increase the level of knowledge and competence on antibiotic resistance in relevant professional professionals, it is necessary to treat and reinstitute resistant bacterial infections correctly. Here's a lot of things that are listed, as the council says you're doing and will come back to already this first six months, if I don't remember completely wrong. So the work is going on. It's a very important work, and it's very gratifying that there's a total mass that thinks this is important to grips with. As I said a moment ago – I just don't dare think about the consequence that once in the future, if we don't do the job properly, we don't have anything to deal with the major infectious diseases, and then we've really created a problem. I hope that work will be continued, and that you will work widely. The exposure as the Council of State, but also the whole Biggest, tells us that this is something you have to pay great attention to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1349	The Christian People's Party would like to thank the Central Party for a good proposal, and we support all the proposals contained in this Document 8. Antibiotic resistance is a major national and international problem. When you think internationally, someone has to go ahead. And maybe I think – not maybe, I mean – that Norway should go ahead here. There is a problem in health, agriculture and aquaculture, and not least for the environment. For the Christian People's Party, it is central that we have an overall strategy, and we are pleased that the minister says we should have it, but that does not preclude us from simultaneously requiring local action plans for the individual regional health company, for the local health company, for any municipality, where one actually looks at both the use of antibiotics and who prescribes. Registration of permanent doctors is becoming central and printing practices of medicinal products become central, both in the fixed medical system, in the medical system and in hospitals. While registering the use, we also need to record what we give antibiotics against and on what basis. In addition to actually entering the health care system, entering agriculture and entering all the other floors and seeing, it is central that we get a change of attitude and knowledge among ordinary people – precisely because if we don't get that knowledge, we destroy the branch we're sitting on, and we don't want to benefit from the antibiotics we're asking for when we go to the firm. It is a challenge in our country, where we really have good knowledge, that more and more people choose, as many here have said, not to vaccinate their own children based on a knowledge they think they have. They expose not only their own children, but also many others to the outbreaks we now see of diseases we thought were eradicated around the world. This is linked to both local, national and international, and therefore we need to focus both closely and in the knowledge. Increased knowledge will make us actually understand that we can't use antibiotics the way we've done so far. Nor is it to hide that we have a challenge with health professionals trained in other places and trained for the use of antibiotics other than the criteria in our country. Therefore, it is central to make strict demands on people educated in other countries, on their use of antibiotics, and on their attitudes to the use of antibiotics in Norwegian health services. This is related, and we'll actually end up at the risk of not surviving diseases that today have a simple form of treatment if we use antibiotics properly. I would finally like to include the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1362	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1365	Norwegian health services need concrete measures and targets to reduce the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Antibiotic resistance is a serious threat to modern medicine and already takes several thousand lives every year in Europe. Also in Norwegian hospitals patients with disease due to antibiotic-resistant bacteria were an increasing problem. These developments require a comprehensive effort across several disciplines and from several departments. The government has warned that an overarching strategy against antibiotic resistance will be developed this spring – it is positive and absolutely necessary. The centre party believes that, in addition to an overarching strategy, concrete action plans are needed in the main areas, and the centre party is pleased that today we are supporting our proposal for an own action plan in the health sector with the overarching objective of reducing antibiotic use in Norway by 30 p.m. by the end of 2020. This is a bold goal, but it's achievable. Reducing the overall use of antibiotics in health services is important, because the use of antibiotics is the single factor that is most conducive to the development of resistance and increases the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. That bacteria become resistant is only a small part of the problem. It is far more important that antibiotic treatment in general and the use of broad spectrum agents can specifically facilitate the spread of resistant bacterial clones or the spread of transmissible resistance mechanisms. Most of the use of antibiotics in human medicine in Norway is in general practice. Although the use is small compared with many other countries, it is increasing. The Public Health Institute report suggests that up to 50 pst. antibiotics prescribed in human medicine are unnecessary. The Parties propose that clear targets should be set for the reduction of the prescription of antibiotics in general practice, including in hospitals. To achieve the objective of such a reduction in antibiotic use and antibiotic resistance, we need to strengthen the knowledge base. Prevention measures are important, such as hygiene measures, vaccinations and screening of risk groups — such as patients recently admitted to hospitals abroad. It is very important to have a good overview of why different antibiotics are prescribed. The introduction of a diagnostic code on a white prescription is a measure that will allow you to use the prescription registry much better, and will allow for a more targeted intervention against the particulars and their prescriptions. Strategies are essential in order to achieve a good predictive practice in general medicine. The expert group, which released its recommendations last autumn, proposed the introduction of the e-Bug programme in Norwegian schools, a project used in 29 countries as a educational package for 4–7. and 10 steps. The centre party thinks this point must be included in the action plan to be developed. Antibiotic treatment today varies from country to country. Foreign lizards recruited to work in the Norwegian health care system, and Norwegian medical students abroad are watered with a different antibiotic printing practice than what is professionally defended in Norway. Today, there are as many Norwegian medical students in Eastern Europe as in Norway. There is a great need to ensure that lizards expand abroad, and who are looking for work in Norway, are trained in professional, defensive use of antibiotics. There are insufficient systematic arrangements for this today. One of the three Norwegian hospitals has no reporting routines for antibiotic resistance. Out-of-date and poorly adapted IT systems are used as part of the explanation of missing local data. However, Norwegian hospitals also have no requirement from the authorities to provide statistics on their resistance cases, as hospitals in many other countries require. The centre party believes that there must be clear demands for Norwegian hospitals on the management of antibiotic use, either in the form of regulatory changes or in the ordering documents of regional health care providers. Sickhouses must be required to monitor the use of antibiotics, with systematic reporting to guidance and prescribers. The use of antibiotics must be regularly dealt with in the Committee on Antibiotics, Quality Selection or the like, and concrete targets must be set. Plans must be drawn up for the implementation of professional guidelines and for enhancing competence in the rational use of antibiotics in all hospitals. An important challenge for hospitals is to avoid unnecessary use of broad spectrum antibiotics. The Central Party is pleased that the Council of State has turned around and now supports the proposal for its own action plan for the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1382	The debate so far shows that we are reasonably agreed on the issue of reducing antibiotic use. We all understood the seriousness. At the same time, Norway is a large consumer according to the population. We are also one of the richest nations in the world. So we have a significant responsibility to help make sure that everyone on the globe can benefit from antibiotics in the future. Cross-sectoral and international cooperation – yes, thank you, of course we do. Strategy – yes, we do. And then there are action plans. The Council of State also says it's coming, but that's where we're going to separate a little bit in terms of the time horizon – how concrete we can be at this point in time. 85 pst. all antibiotics in Norway are prescribed outside hospitals, a relatively large proportion of them for children and in the context of respiratory infections. The antibiotic centre for primary medicine was established in 2006. It was an affordable establishment, but it's a cross of thought that no one has remembered them then. They have not been increased, and they are struggling to implement new measures. It is clear that to the extent that there is some effort to be made here. The Netherlands is one of the countries referred to that have succeeded in using less antibiotics — an estimated 30 pst. less than we do in Norway. Sweden has also lost its share through systematic work. The committee was visiting Australia, and we were told how they work with their general practitioners, among other things. by means of information measures. And there's some of the key here when it comes to bringing down the use outside of hospitals -- it's just by making people aware of antibiotics. Diagnostic codes have been mentioned here and competence objectives. e-Bug is also one of the measures that can contribute — through education and training. And then we're also going to refer to the health care sector, which turns out to have very different prescription practices. Some hospitals are very good at using little antibiotics. We have to learn from them. This citizen because the Antibiotics Center for Primary Medicine is one of those we can use to help us reduce the use of antibiotics, and without it cost the whole world. There are plenty of measures to be taken. So to the 15 pst. in hospitals, which are the most serious, the broad-spectrum antibiotic prescribed there. It will also affect the most ill patients if resistance develops. Here too, there is a good deal of action to be taken. Many of the hospitals need to find an antibiotic strategy, to achieve improvement goals and an overview of their own antibiotic use, not least, and also to implement guidelines. So there's a good way to get action plans started. We only have the time and the way to a common effort across the globe, where Norway has to take its share.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1401	There is broad consensus in the Committee and in the Storting on the need to combat the development of antibiotic resistance. There is no more important issue for health policy-makers to engage in now. This is about the health and safety of both ourselves, our children and the generations that are coming. This is an incredibly important question, and Norway has some way to go before we are where we should be, as one of the countries that should be the furthest forward in this work. For this reason, several of the proposals that have now been put forward are called for, precisely concrete plans for how health authorities and each hospital can develop procedures, guidelines and sufficient monitoring to produce better results. It is to hope that the lack of majority support for the proposals mentioned here, which have been put forward by many, is primarily a signal that the government wants to come back with about the same thing, in a collective and appropriate way. So it's going to be exciting to hear what the council says about this. I think anyway it has been good that an initiative has been taken in the Stortinget that has shown that there is a strong commitment to rapid action in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1411	I fully agree with the concerns of the proposers about the health threat of antibiotic resistance to the world community and to Norway. Rarely can one rightly say that this problem is a challenge for the whole world, and we all have to contribute to solving this. Antibiotic resistance is already one of the most important threats to global health and will become a growing problem in the years to come. Both over-use and misuse of antibiotics have contributed to this situation. In spring, the World Health Organization came with the first global monitoring report on antibiotic resistance. The conclusion of the report is clear: we are entering a post-antibiotic era where common infections can take many lives. In the future, resistance will not only affect the treatment of infectious diseases that are already a serious problem. Surgery treatment such as hip joint operations, the treatment of premature and cancer treatment also requires the presence of active antibiotics. Without such medicinal products, treatment may be difficult and in some cases impossible. On 13 and 14 November 2014, Norway, together with six other countries and the World Health Organisation, organised a conference in Oslo to discuss future actions. The National Institute for Public Health was the technical organiser of the conference. In my opening post, I supported the World Health Organisation as an international leader in this work through the development of a Global Action Plan. At the same time, I stressed the need for many sectors to work together to solve the problem. Not least the human and veterinary side through what is called ‘one health approach’. However, agricultural production other than animal husbandry, aquaculture and the environment in a broad sense are also important areas for the dissemination of resistant microbes and resistance genes. A comprehensive cross-sectoral approach is therefore absolutely necessary. That is why the government has decided to establish a national, cross-sectoral approach to antibiotic resistance. The strategy shall include at least one measurable objective for each sector. It shall be completed by 1 July. There is no contradiction between creating an overall cross-sectoral approach and creating an action plan for the health sector. On the contrary, an action plan for the health sector follows naturally from an overall strategy. That's how I've thought all the way. To make a political point out of this, as the majority now wants, is in my view to turn open doors. Yes, an action plan will be drawn up, and yes, it will, like the strategy, be based on the expert group's report of 18 August last year. The working group highlights as known eight different areas of action: 1) monitoring of reservoirs, 2) cleaning of reservoirs, 3) increased protection against infection, 4) vaccines, 5) better diagnosis, 6) better prescription/use of antibiotics and other chemicals, 7) more impact assessments, 8) other regulatory measures. Increased efforts are needed in all these areas if we are to ensure a sustainable system for the rational use of antibiotics. This will necessarily cost money. In order to strengthen the health side’s work on antibiotic resistance, the Public Health Institute received 2.6 million. kr in 2014 and gets 3 million. kr for 2015. I have also spent 4.6 million from 2014. kr to the International Research Initiative Joint Programme Initiative-Antimicrobial Resistance. Norway is cooperating with 18 European countries and Canada to implement an ambitious research agenda. The agenda can also benefit from the work of the World Health Organisation to mobilise countries to actively combat antibiotic resistance. I am very pleased that an overall increase in this committee position is so clear that this must be an important and priority area. It will also be for the government, both in what we do nationally, which is important, even though Norway is well compared to other countries, and not least in the job that is now required for us to do internationally, in what I would call the health system's climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1435	The Labour Party has chosen to support five of the proposals, because we think it is important that the Council of State has a certain freedom to pick out what is most effective. But then I listened to Sveinung Stensland, who lifted this by increasing the rate of vaccination in the population, and I've got what's happening in the United States, where there's a debate between the right and the left, considering parents' freedom to vaccinate their children versus collective responsibility. So my question to the Council of State is, what does the Minister think about increasing the rate of vaccination? Will there be an important measure, or is it more important, with the freedom of choice that parents think they should have when it comes to vaccinating their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1440	Vaccination and increasing vaccination rates are an important tool to counter antibiotic resistance. There are many other important reasons for vaccination, but this is also an important reason, in terms of both humans and animals. I have not seen that there has been a serious discussion in Norway about a need for forced vaccination. I think that's a way to approach this that's foreign to us. However, in the context of vaccination, we will always stress the importance of the collective effect of vaccination. It was not least the case with the pandemic, and it is important that we also make an understanding of it. But one of the most important things we do in this regard is to build confidence in the population of the recommendations made by health authorities, and that trust is built every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1445	It is a plural note in the attitude of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and Socialist Left Party, which refers to the challenges of spreading antibiotic resistance in the event of increased mobility across national borders. This applies particularly in the context of hospital treatment and work in hospitals, and they refer to the so-called Patient Rights Directive and its inclusion: ‘The majority believe that the government has received good professional justification from the professional communities for increased cross-border exchanges of healthcare and health workers to lead to increased monitoring, and that, inter alia, the health and economic consequences of increased mobility, in view of the increased risk of spread of antibiotic resistance, must be investigated.’ My question is how the Minister of Health and Health has planned for this distribution to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1455	This is a relationship that you always have to include in connection with the specific issues we face. I also understand that there is a broad consensus that both increased travel activities in all contexts and increased treatment across borders pose challenges related to antibiotic resistance. But when I listen to the leading trade unions in this area nationally, I rarely hear anyone stress that limiting travel activities, limiting the possibility of cross-border treatment, is an instrument in that context. So I think we need to have a conscious view of that. We need to have legislation and systems to deal with it. Having the approach that this is a problem from which Norway can isolate itself will, in my opinion, mean that we choose a strategy that leads us the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1460	I have another question about hospitals. In fact, only one in three hospitals today have systems that capture the monitoring of antibiotic use and antibiotic resistance. It's a very low number, and actually totally unacceptable when we look at the challenges in hospitals. It is good that a strategy plan should be put in place, and that an action plan should be put in place, but this is very easy to start at once – making demands for entrepreneurs to start monitoring their own antibiotic use and implementing the professional guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1465	We require companies to implement professional guidelines. And this work, both with the strategy and with the action plan, is not something we intend to go out on time. As I explained in my statement, the national strategy will be ready for the summer, and we are working in parallel with the action plan. An action plan in the field of health could, of course, be more comprehensive than action plans in other sectors, but we are working in parallel with both implementing and developing plans in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1470	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1486	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1495	The Committee has examined the Workers' Party's proposal for a better school health service. As the rapporteur, I believe that the attitude demonstrates a broad and good commitment from all parties in relation to the health situation of children and young people, particularly in relation to mental health challenges. The original nine proposals of the Workers' Party have evolved into 13 proposals promoted by a minority today – varying according to the parties behind which proposals. But in common with us all, we share the ambition that children and young people who are struggling need to be seen earlier and get faster help, because we know that early efforts are important to avoid the development of small plagues into chronic disorders. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and now, in the rest of my speech, allow me to explain the views of the Right and Government parties on the matter. I know that the other parties will do the same in relation to their views in the further debate. For the Right and Advance Party, early efforts, faster mental health care, the strengthening of health and school health services and better health care near where people live among the government’s main efforts are. Therefore, we significantly strengthen these areas in the transfers to the municipalities. We're recording that the red-green batches now want a ringing of these means. It is worth noting that the red-green government never proposed ringing, nor did it strengthen these areas in a magnitude that enabled municipalities to expand this important prevention service in the past. The device chosen by our government on these means gives a clear signal to the municipalities and lays down the principle that the municipalities know best where the shoe is pressed. Therefore, there are also many municipalities that are now building up these services. Today we can read in the newspaper about the Oslo municipality's project of rapid mental health care, a pilot project in the districts of Frogner and Søndre Nordstrand, where the student Malin Nesvoll Vangsnes tells how easily accessible help via a low-threshold offer was crucial to her when, as a student, she experienced anxiety that made her sick. Another example is the district of Akershus, which one of the country’s first counties introduced the health sisters at all secondary schools as a permanent offer from 2012. It reduces school dropout. Now they are expanding the service with environmental workers to complete health care sisters in catching up and being there for the young students. Ski municipality, also in Akershus, has its own work related to early work for children at risk. There are many more municipal projects and initiatives that show that many municipalities are working purposefully and well to build up a stronger professional school health service. We're still going to be impatient on behalf of all of those who don't get help in time, but we're also going to remember to acknowledge that a lot of good work is going on. So to an important topic: how to make school health more accessible and relevant to boys? Yesterday I learned a new expression: boy patch. I hospitated at a health centre in my neighboring municipality, and there, the health sister and the community psychologist could tell about the phenomenon of boy patching. In general, boys experience their way into the health-care sister’s office that squirmed and squirmed more than many girls — they are afraid to answer questions. That's why it happens that the guys are knocking on and asking for a patch, even if it doesn't help put patches on what's really the problem. So the question is whether more men in the health care profession will make the service more accessible, or whether that is how the service is addressed to both boys and girls who are crucial. We have the most faith in the last. There are municipalities that work specifically with measures aimed directly at boys. Asker municipality is an example of that. As one of their actions, they have their own health center day for boys. From the start in 2000, the proportion of boys in their health station service has increased from 8,5 pst. until 26 pst. That's quite a good job. In the Right, we are very pleased that the government is clearly committed to the health of children and young people. The next year, the government will present its primary health report. We look forward to this, because we believe that the time for an overall review of the division of labour in the community health service is overdue. It will provide better and faster assistance to even more children and young people in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1514	Life poses small and big challenges, including for children and young people. This could be done, for example, by: be the experience of lack of mastering at school or in the circle of friends, your parents differ, your father drinks a little too much, or your grandmother dies. These are situations that are relatively common to encounter, precisely because many experience it, but it is also demanding to deal with the individual. During these periods, many people may need outside help to master thoughts and situations and to learn to live with them. Many examples have shown that a challenging life situation when you are young, can quickly develop into a serious illness when you get older, if you do not get enough help. New knowledge shows that most diagnoses occur before adult age, and therefore early intervention and prevention have a high health effect. The working party believes that school health services and health centres represent one of the most important single factors for early intervention and prevention among children and young people. The school health service is the student’s own statutory healthcare service, which, in addition to the statutory tasks, has a unique opportunity to meet children and young people in their arena, regardless of social background, thus helping them to get help quickly when something is difficult. The potential and the possibility of service is great, but reality unfortunately turns out to be somewhat different. Today’s situation is a school health service that offers only the most necessary, often with long waiting lists and little availability. The journal “Sykepleien” has conducted a survey confirming the gloomy picture. Norway has too few health sisters to help children who need it. Seven out of ten nurses say they don't ask the students questions, because they don't have time to follow up. The government of Stoltenberg, with Jonas Gahr Støre as Minister of Health, therefore granted 180 million. extra in 2013 for the country’s school health and health centres to meet some of these challenges. When the magazine “Sykepleien” again, half a year later, examined how much of the 180 million. NOK which was actually used to strengthen the service, the answer was that less than half of the funds, 75 million. kr, was used to increase the number of health sisters. This shows that many municipalities do not take children and young people’s needs for good and accessible healthcare seriously. As an adult, we can pick up the phone and order an hour at the doctor's office or at a specialist's office if life becomes difficult. When children need help with their problems, they have to knock on a door in a school health service that is too often closed. Children and young people have the right to equal health care as we adults. The country’s school health service must be available to the children and young people who need it, they must have sufficient skills to meet the problems and challenges of children and young people, and they must become a more integrated part of the municipality’s system to provide the population with good lowthreshold services. Furthermore, the service represents a solid basis of knowledge in a comprehensive picture of the prevention activities of municipalities. Today's health sisters do a fantastic job, but we put them in an impossible working situation by just giving them a little teaspoon to pour out of a whole bathtub. The State has the overall responsibility for ensuring good health for children and young people, even if the work is done in the municipalities. I therefore refer to the proposals No. 1-10 in the vote, proposals made by the Workers' Party together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1535	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1538	It is a goal and a wish that all our children and young people should have a growth of safety, care and good health. Unfortunately, not all of their childhood or youth experience these values. The best help we can give is what we give before the challenges get bigger, and before little problems become chronic suffering. This help gives health sisters, doctors, midwives, psychologists and other health professionals in the school health service to thousands of children and young people every day. In this way, school health services are an important lowthreshold service that reaches our children and young people. School health services help more young people to enjoy healthy reproductive health through information on prevention and sexuality. School health services help more children and young people get a safe adult to talk to when life is boiling, and can make sure that children and young people who need more help get it. This is a preventive offer, with ears listening to and eyes seeing our children and young people. The Progress Party will have more people who can listen to and see our children and young people. That is why we are pleased with the considerable commitment made to the school health service in connection with the state budget for the current year. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have strengthened the school health service by 270 million. kr in the free resources of municipalities in 2015. The funds are dedicated to prevention services and the strengthening will provide room for 350 new annual works. The level of competence of health professionals in school health services is essential in order to be able to work systematically and interdisciplinaryly with the school environment, prevention measures and the promotion of mental health in schools. School health is a low-threshold service with a high potential. I want the service to reach more children and young people, especially when we know that a large proportion of high school dropouts are due to mental problems. At a time when the labour market’s demands for formal competence are increasing, it is very serious that the drop-out rate in secondary school is high. Lack of education can have lifelong consequences for future links with work and other social arenas. Groups that generally have a higher risk of not completing secondary education are low primary school students, low-educated pupils, boys, minority language pupils with no Norwegian knowledge and low-educated professionals. Research on non-response has often looked at these individual relationships. Researchers at the NTNU Pedagogical Institute chose instead to look at the whole process that leads to the end of students. The recent findings show that it is the social experience of everyday school life that has the greatest impact on students’ thoughts about leaving school. The research showed that loneliness is the most important single reason why students do not complete secondary school in Norway. School health services can be a contributor to working more interdisciplinaryly in school, to work against bullying in school, to promote a better school environment and to see our children and young people struggling in and out of school everyday life. It will take time to see the impact of recent years’ efforts on school health. Nevertheless, we cannot be satisfied, because many municipalities do not have a school health service that meets the needs. The primary health notification is announced to the Stortinget this year, and the school health service will be discussed in the notification. The advancement party has an ambition to develop the school health service to equip children and young people well for adult life. The right-wing Party Government takes this seriously through targeted bets. Preventing more is a cheap investment to repair less.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1566	I want to go to the setting first. There is an error in the document submitted by the Committee. Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 9 on page 12. In addition, we support the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3, that's right. But we also support proposal No. 9 – that's what they say in the introduction. School health service has been, and is, a central part of the Christian People's Party's health policy. We are also breathed into the neck of KrFU that this is a central area of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party also fought during the budgetary procedure and had its own budget proposal to commit funds precisely to this service. When we know that municipalities do not prioritise this high enough – we have been behind for many years, and we lack many positions in the school health service – we have a challenge and a problem. That is why the Christian People's Party is involved in several of the proposals, together with among others. The working party. School health services are important as a prevention arena and not least as a public health arena because all kids go to school. There is a unique opportunity and a good platform to reach all young people regardless of background and regardless of their parents’ status or wallet. This is precisely why the school health service is unique. We have an opportunity to reach a lot of people and to facilitate an offer that everyone gets involved in. Some municipalities have taken good action, including: with co-location — where maternity care, health station work, open kindergarten, childcare, PPT and school health services have shared offices. This does not mean that the school health service is out of school, but that it has experienced good cooperation at the service level. Co-location has lowered the threshold for visits and has provided a good framework for multidisciplinary cooperation. Family houses are such a good measure that has been strengthened in the budget. For the Christian People's Party, it is central to strengthen the interdisciplinary cooperation between services to reach children and young people, and perhaps especially boys, because we see that they are absent from the ordinary school health service. Once we have managed to work together at the service level for children and young people, both the BUP, the school health service, the general medical service and the PPT, perhaps in new forms of organisation, the Christian People's Party is concerned that this can continue into school as good joint venues with different types of professional background. The Christian People's Party is concerned that children and young people are vulnerable, that they are a particularly vulnerable group, and that they must not take the consequences of the fact that there is a poorly coordinated system today. The lack of communication and poor coordination of services means that too many people get extra waiting time when they need and need help, specialising in assistance. It is also deficient in terms of follow-up and cooperation. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased with what the minister is now warning that psychologists can refer directly to the specialist health service. This is actually about reaching those who need it the most. If we facilitate cooperation early, it is easy to get interdisciplinary cooperation into the school health service, which we need to look at centrally. There must be room for different occupational groups and there must be room for different ways of accessing children and young people. Then it becomes central, even in high school, that we have interdisciplinary cooperation, we are able to capture the young people there as well. In this way, we are also able to take action, so that we may be able to achieve fewer falls from high school, precisely because we have had interdisciplinary cooperation that sees our young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1581	I want to praise the Worker's Party, which is taking up the school health problem again. It's a very important area. Proposals will be supported by the centre party. 1 and 2, from the Labour Party, that the school services must be integrated into work against non-response, and that one must strengthen cooperation between the school services and other services for children and young people. When it comes to the proposal on ear marking, the Central Party does not support that proposal. We have an alternative proposal, not in this case, but we have earlier in Stortinget to propose a stepping-up plan for mental health in the municipalities with ear-marked funds, but then to the whole area, so that the municipalities within it can choose which one will invest the money. During the previous tripping plan, there was a lot of good happening, even when it was a school health service. When it comes to the proposal for a minimum norm, the Central Party will not support it. We are uncertain whether this measure will have an effect, and there is always a danger that a minimum standard will be a maximum standard. We also have an own proposal asking the government to come back with a concrete plan for the development of the school services, where different means of action can be debated. We are positive that health sisters can be able to pass on youth to the BUP and to psychologists. We also have a proposal for a greater integration of psychologists in the schools themselves, so that one removes the distinction that is currently between the BUP and the work that is taking place in the school community. We also support the Workers' Party's proposal for measures to recruit men and minority language doctors for the profession of nurse. The hearing showed that it is important to have good cooperation between school health services, opticians and eye specialists, and there is a proposal to do so. We do not support the proposal to map competences. We think we know enough about this. There is good competence in the school health services – the problem is that there is not enough of him. Nor do we mean that increased supervision is a necessary measure. It's supervision today. Now it's important to put in place both resources and recruitment, but also to ensure good management and organisation, for the health care department's supervision just showed that when it comes to renting and organizing, there's a lot of work to be done in the school clinic. The centre party has a proposal to get more physiotherapists into the school clinic, and we're a little surprised that we've got so few parties with us in that matter – only SV, I'll say very well to SV. It is obvious that physiotherapists must be in the school community. Norsk Physiotherapeuperförbund says, and has statistics that there has been a decline in settings over the past 15–20 years – and a marked decline in the last four years. It is scientifically documented that conditions in both muscle and skeleton can be associated with other physical and mental health disorders, and we believe that physiotherapy must be an integral part of the dorsal services. With that, I take up the proposal No. 11 and 12, from the Centre Party and SV, and proposal No. 13 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1602	The representative Kjersti Toppe has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1605	School health services play an important role in the public health work of municipalities. Work involves guidance, health studies, vaccination, follow-up and referral where necessary. The school health service shall have a holistic view, and competence in health, growth and quality of life shall contribute to increased well-being and mastering for children and young people and facilitate a good psychosocial and physical working environment in school. It shall support children and young people at a vulnerable stage and contribute to the prevention of high school drop-outs, which have been mentioned by several. It is a key point that this service is free and located where children and young people are, as an easily accessible drop-in service at school. The health centre and the school health service are the most suitable part of the healthcare system to work with prevention for children and young people. Prevention is important in all phases of life and essential for balancing social health differences. When I say this, it's because this is a theme that we all agree on. For my own part, I have to say that I feel a little committed to the schoolyard, in the situation that we are in now purely politically. I remember when I was at a certain age, there were some white patches in my hand where it said, Will you be with Silver? Yes, then, and then it was about sending a white note back. I feel that what we're doing now becomes a bit like sending white patches to each other: Who are the measures? How much money can we get? Who are you going to keep up with? For the Left part, I have to say that we have a bit of a tight track with the Right and the Advance Party right now. And we've got quite a lot in a short time, we think: We've got a lot more money for more health sisters — in fact, almost so much that the number of health sisters who can be recruited to the school health service depends on how many. But we have to have more. And the psychologists will be given the right to be referred. These are just two examples of recent measures that make us think that this service is getting better. After sitting for eight years without having any influence on the school health service, we think it's worth trying a little more. Very many of the proposals that are up in the debate we have here now, we quite agree. So it's about what measures we're going to put in when, and maybe a little bit about who's going to get the credit for them. I want to point out the PP service as a very important part, and as an even more overlooked service than the health sisters and school health services are. It has to be remembered that they have a very important competence, but many municipalities have unfortunately built up that service just as much or even more than the health care and the school health service. With that, a continuity goes away. Some nurses are quite good adults and have good experience, but also in the PP service there is an all-sided and highly educated profession that is in contact with many ‘doors’ and knows how to open doors that are also dependent on the school health service. So I think it's important that we increase the capacity of the PP service, health centres and the school health service and maintain that competence. There's a group in the growing-up sector that we're not talking about, and that's the nursery. We know that there are many hospital admissions early in a child's life, and in kindergarten we have a poorly-developed healthcare service. It is resource-intensive to develop a health service aimed at kindergartens, but I think we need to start talking about kindergartens as well. It is the municipalities that fund the school health service also in high school, but that transition is difficult for the municipality and county council and for the teachers, and it is probably a little difficult for many students too. They're going to deal with a new school health service, which in many cases has been tricked even more, because they're a little off the municipal daily health service. So we are going to the student health service, which is a little bit in the same situation, because neither hospitals, county councils nor municipalities really take full responsibility for it. This is also one of the things we need to look at in the future – the funding and responsibility for that service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1626	During the previous period, the red-green government carried out a substantial increase in child protection services. It came in place approx. 1 000 new posts in municipal child protection in four years. The idea of several parties has been that what was to follow the efforts of more people in child protection was to be a similar initiative and a similar lift for the school health services and health centres. It's a good vision, and it's a very necessary lift. We know that investing in a good school health service and good health stations is one of the most important things we can do for good public health work, to prevent various diseases, to work against bullying, to create well-being and to provide a good basis for the early efforts to prevent children from developing diseases, plagues or suffering that make them hard to live. But there is an important difference between the child protection promise and the promise for the school health service that has been notified, and that is that the child protection promise was carried out by earmarked means. Without earmarked funds, there had never been such a massive escalation in municipal child protection. There is no doubt that this was absolutely necessary. Also at the time one tried for several years with clear instructions to the municipalities, one pointed out some of the free resources to the municipalities and said that this would be used for increased staffing in the child protection service. But the Storting too often places more orders than the Storting pays for. That's what we have to end with. If we want an upgrade of services like it's obvious over several years of testing that the municipalities are not sufficiently good at prioritizing themselves, we have to designate the funds. I therefore believe that the most important proposal we are dealing with today is from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party to provide guidance for ear-marking. That's what the government should come back to the state budget later this year. The nurses' union showed us in the budget hearing in the fall that too little of the funds that we had all hoped would go to school health care and health care stations will reach us. For SV, what we are talking about here is an important part of our vision for tomorrow’s school — a school that will also be a central part of health policy. We have to go away from seeing school as an arena just for learning. We have to view it as an arena for growth and as an arena for early action in several fields. It shall be an arena to contribute to social cohesion and public health. It is about a lot of measures, including: physical activity and healthy food, but it is also about a good school health service and the availability of health centres for both children and young people in local settings that can establish the necessary contact with our most vulnerable children and young people. It's about discovering those who are struggling, early, it's about preventing bullying, it's about preventing mental problems, it's about creating a good school environment, and it's about getting more professionals into school. I would also like to point out the proposals in the position that deal with the importance of getting more professionals into this initiative. We know there is a great need for health sisters. Before this ageing period, it was estimated that we were missing 1,500 health sisters. But there is also a major lack of, among other things, psychologists and physiotherapists, as it would be a great advantage if we got into this kind of bet. An important objective must be to obtain the various services to reach children and young people — school, health centre, school health service, the BUP, child protection, etc. - to work better together. If we manage to get more resources, more professionals and more people into school in the form of good school health services and good health centres for children and young people, it will be a crucial contribution to that. The SV's call to the government is, if this escalation does not give the results we had hoped for this year, to learn from the child protection promise and come back with a designation of funds for the promise needed for school health services and health stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1642	Thanks to the representatives for addressing important issues related to the organisation and accessibility of municipal health services for children and young people. The basis for good health throughout life is laid in childhood and youth. A good childhood lasts life. This is why prevention, early detection, health promotion and follow-up are important. This is where health care and school health services have a crucial role, together with kindergarten, school and childcare. This government is committed to strengthening municipal health and care services — including children and young people and their families. Children and young people will be the subject of the Communication on the future primary health service presented to the Stortinget this spring. It is also announced that a dedicated youth health strategy will be presented during 2016, addressing a wide range of challenges related to youth health. The aim of the initiative is to increase the number of annual works, more interdisciplinary in the service and more and more appropriate competences in the service. We know that health care and school health services are different sized in different municipalities. However, setting a minimum standard for this service could result in the number of annual works becoming an objective in itself, not the quality of service for children and young people. But of course it should not be that the help you get depends on the municipality you live in. When children and young people have acknowledged that they need help and finally received and sought help, yes, it is important that they do not meet a closed door at the health sister with a note that she is present on Wednesdays between 9 and 13. Health nurses shall be available when children and young people need it. The government should also be involved and contribute to this. That is why we are strengthening health and school health services with a total of 455 million. kr through the growth of free income of municipalities. These funds are a good start to long-term development work. Of course, we will follow closely how the funds are used. If it turns out that the municipalities have not used the funds for the purpose, we have warned that we will consider how to strengthen this service in a different way from today. Quality is far more than the number of annual works. Quality is also about multidisciplinaryism and enhanced competence. Strengthening the competence of municipal health and care services is one of the main measures to improve services. Health nurses have a significant role, but other staff groups are also important in providing children and young people with comprehensive services in municipalities. Among other things, the government will make mental health care more accessible to children and young people. The plan for further recruitment comes in the primary health message. There are several examples of good cooperation between different service providers, such as the school project in the districts of Ullern and Frogner. There, the BUP West at the Diakon home and the city of Ullern have joined forces to strengthen the health provision in the schools in the district with a specialist health care psychologist one day a week. Such an organisation strengthens cooperation between all levels and between healthcare and school. There are similar examples in the Nord-Trunde Team. But most importantly, the organisation allows health services to reach children and young people with significant help needs that would otherwise not have sought help. Health services for children and young people are an important area of government activity. The previous government strengthened this service by about 180 million. kr through an increase in the free resources of municipalities. We've strengthened the services by another 270 million. kr. A good health and school health service is a service that covers several occupational groups. Better interaction with other sectors, in particular the knowledge sector, is essential for providing children and young people with coherent and good services. A lot remains until this is fully in place, but we are very well going on with this important development work. I am pleased that the Committee on this matter is also showing cross-political commitment to strengthen precisely this service, which is so important for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1664	The journal Sykepleien found out that Norwegian municipalities spent less than half of the formerly increased funds on school health services and health centres in 2013–2014. It's serious. Now we are facing the same situation again, because in November 2014, a survey carried out by the Kommunebarometer shows that only 22 pst. by its rapporteurs and advisers, even if it is granted more than 200 million, more health sisters will be employed. kr more. 52 pst. by the rapporteurs and the advisers will not propose the recruitment of more people in the health centre and in the school health service. The working party has learned that giving the increased funds to the service as free resources to the municipalities does not seem to work in this case. The money Stortinget sends out, does not actually reach children and young people who need it. That's why we've now opted for a ringing. Why do the Minister of Health and the Government not want to participate in the recognition of the Workers' Party and to earmark the increased funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1671	It's simply because the fasit that the Workers' Party is sitting on here doesn't exist. The fact that this money is actually used in the municipalities, we get through the KOSTRA numbers that will be presented this spring. It is best to have that fasitium before a final judgment on how this money has been spent, and not based on surveys or interviews. Furthermore, there is also a very clear message from this government to the municipalities of the country. It's that for our part this isn't a one-off bet, but a bet that's going to go over the years. It has also been experienced by municipalities through this year's government budget, where there was a significant investment – more than a double – in this area, which was further strengthened in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. This means that, unlike in the past, municipalities can start recruiting people in this service without being afraid that next year's Storting will be a completely different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1678	I agree that the final figures are better than interviews. That's why we're ready to reconsider our policy if it turns out that this way of granting, as the government has implemented, is a storming success. That's what time will show. But I might want to ask for a little bit more transparency from the Council of State in relation to the figures provided by the Confederation of Nurses, because they were not good, and that has to worry the Council of State. But as I understand the Council of State, he will not now reject the fact that the designation can be used. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1683	Earmarking is an instrument as a user where one believes it is pragmatically correct. While the previous government removed the designation of funds for the construction of drug supply to drug addicts in the municipalities, this government reintroduced earmarking for the construction of drug supply to drug addicts – precisely because this was an area where the instruments of the Cooperation Reform functioned to motivate municipalities to build up and prioritise other things instead of building up. Then we'll use earring, and we've also strengthened that in the year's budget. Then we have to keep track of how these means are used, and whether they are effective. I also think that the production of the study in Sykepleien is very distorted. One makes it like this money, which the previous government initially prioritised, but which we passed on, didn't have any effect. If it is that Sykepleien is right here, it is a wrong conclusion – one that had a significant effect: the growth in the number of annual works in 2014 was significantly higher than it was in 2013, if one takes Sykepleien’s figure into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1690	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1706	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1713	The history of this Document 8 proposal is that the board of directors of the Hospital Telemark, through an investigation work, found that a collection of somatic emergency services and diurnal treatment was necessary in fewer locations in Telemark. It was the best way to take care of the overall responsibility for the population. The decision of the Hospital Telemark is justified on patient safety and quality. The development plan of the Hospital Telemark for 2014–2016 is based on what will provide a good and equivalent specialist healthcare service, and there has been a wide consultation with 88 consultation responses. The Minister of Health and Welfare decided in the business meeting in June 2014 that the emergency function of Rjukan hospital should be terminated. This Decision was to ensure that the development of the two robust emergency hospitals on Notodden and in Skien would provide citizens with a good and better quality offer. This also includes a clear requirement that before the emergency services at Rjukan Hospital are closed, the plans for the prehospital services or emergency services outside the hospital should be renewed and updated. The Hallingdal Sukestugu model has been assessed in the planning work, but the population base and distance from Rjukan to the nearest hospital, at Notodden, which is seven miles, did not recommend this model. Now it's also like the Hallingdal Sukestugu model has changed over time, and the activity that's going on there is probably going to be adjusted forward. For there are currently different models of decentralised specialised activity in cooperation with hospitals. Valdre's specialist health service on the Feners is an example of a model that is slightly different from Hallingdal Sjukestugu. It is therefore quite wrong that the Storting should decide which model is appropriate for the Rjukan. This is something the Central Party wants in this Document 8 proposal. It is up to each administration and individual board of health companies to decide on this, and it will in fact be up to the Storting to decide which models are appropriate at all times. It would also be to set the controls aside and undermine the model that we are now following. There were many changes in the hospital structure of the red-green government that led to the closure of both hospitals, food supply and emergency surgery without this being explicitly addressed in Stortinget. That being said, it is both right and important to facilitate specialised outpatient clinics and other health activities at Rjukan hospitals today. Such services are well facilitated, not least through cooperation with the medical officer on immediate relief beds, but the organisation of this model must take place in cooperation with local, health or private actors. You have to find the model that is appropriate. The municipalities have also received 10 million. In development funds to start this work, it was in budgetary cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I trust that the Hospital Telemark healthcare company has a good process with the municipality, and that this is a priority. There has been a very exciting process around the closure of the emergency services at Rjukan, and it is important to get work started. The waiting time for surgical treatment is too long today. A number of measures have been put in place by the government to reduce both waiting time and queues, and there has been an increase in activity in hospitals and the purchase of services from private providers. The Right Party and the Progressive Party support the assessment by Health South-East that there is no need to establish an additional public offer in Rjukan as a kind of cow-abbreviation clinic, as proposed by the Centre Party, but if private actors want to establish themselves in Rjukan, it is positive. However, it must take place within the tendering regime that exists today, or within a completely private clinic. The Right Party and the Progressive Party will also point out that with the government's budgetary proposals and budgetary cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, hospitals have achieved the greatest budgetary growth of the time. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that in the years when the red-greens were sitting, hospitals did not have such growth. It is therefore well-placed that the Hospital Telemark should also use funds to develop the hospital service in this region, and it will also facilitate higher growth in patient treatment in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1734	As the rapporteur pointed out, the development plan for the Hospital Telemark has been adopted. There's no time for rematches now. What I think is important, for both Tinn and Telemark, is where and how we move on from here. There are three key assumptions. Firstly, the big community has a responsibility to help the municipality of Tin and the Rjukan community through the tough transformation they are in the middle of now. Therefore, the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget in autumn promoted proposals of 30 million. kr annually for three years for a project that was to contribute precisely to the conversion and new health activity of the Rjukan hospital. However, we believe it is wrong that we from Stortinget should have detailed guidance on what should be the content of such a type of project, which I believe suggests, among other things. by pointing to a special model for this purpose. We believe that this should be clarified in a project that Health South-East can lead in collaboration with the municipality of Tinn, the municipality of Telemark County, the hospital Telemark, Innovation Norway and other actors. It didn't get a majority. Assumption number two: The population must feel confident that the emergency services that replace those that have been lost are good enough. State Council Bent Höie stood in this room last June and promised renewed and updated plans for the prehospital services in the area. The reason was that someone should have the alternative plans in place before the emergency services at Rjukan Hospital were closed, so that the population would feel confident that the emergency services they require were present. There are now reports of concerns about whether the work on renewing and updating emergency plans outside hospitals is well-managed. It is very important in such difficult conversion processes that offers to replace what may be lost are clearly communicated and meet the needs of the population for security. The Minister of Health has spoken in the last year or a half of the year about Norwegian health services being good at survival, but not always as good at experience among patients. I have noticed that the Council of State in ordinary Question Time last week, after the committee had given its opinion on the matter, pointed out that for example. the actual ambulance offer in the region is clearly better and more dimensioned now than the need should be. However, I have to say that the Council of State has managed very closely to create the same perceived security for the Rjukan community, and this should be taken seriously by the parties of government. It's a difficult matter for a lot of people. That is why we are asking again in the position for a concrete overview of how this work has been renewed and updated, and we are also asking in the proposal that the government follow up the hospital offer in Telemark, including providing sufficient financial space to implement these changes in a good way, and that the government possibly return to the Stortinget with plans and funding if necessary. Prerequisites number three, and this may be the most important thing for most people in Telemark and elsewhere in the country. I can't help but believe that the government parties must at some point take on the fact that reality is not always as described in a technical statement of the estimated budgetary need through their own government budget. Yesterday, I was at the University Hospital in Tromsø. That's a $170 million deficit. kr. About half of this comes as a direct result of the government's adopted hospital budget. The situation in the matter we are now discussing is that one of the elements of the development plan – which is very acute and has received a lot of attention, and which may be the most important proposal in the whole Telemark development plan – is to facilitate new, partly very necessary and large investments in the hospitals in Telemark. This has now come to an end in time; it is uncertain whether investment can be carried. Unfortunately, I think we have to note that part of this is about the appropriations from the Stortinget and the government's parliamentary basis not being large enough and not being in line with what has been needed and with what has been expressed politically before the elections. Therefore, assuming number three, when we discuss these issues, we have to be able in the years to come to raise the appropriations for specialist healthcare in Norway high enough so that the necessary investments can be made. It promised all the parties before the election, about 12 billion. kr. I'm not going to repeat who was tough-ass in what you promised. It's a long way from what the government has done so far, based on what you promised before the elections. I refer to the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1762	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1765	Changing or doing new things in the area of hospitals always creates challenges. The Christian People's Party had in its alternative budget – like the Workers' Party – a proposal to grant 30 million. kr annually over a three-year period in conversion funds to the municipality of Tin in connection with the closure of the Rjukan acute reception. The funds from the Christian People's Party were to be made available to the municipality of Tinn, who had to evaluate new initiatives in collaboration with relevant actors and the regional health company. We in the Christian People's Party did not get through for 30 million. NOK over three years, but we got an average of 10 million. kr in conversion and innovation products to Rjukan and have – I am clicking on it – the expectation to get additional funds to convert to Rjukan. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to get sufficient resources in place so that the municipality can organise to ensure good health services, new establishments and, not least, safe jobs, but most of all: secure services for those who live far from a local hospital with emergency facilities. The Christian People's Party also points to Norwegian Air Ambulance when this case was up, pointing to holes in the air ambulance map over Telemark's internal parts and East-Agder. The Christian People's Party agrees that a new base is needed in this area – with helicopters capable of flying under difficult weather conditions. The Christian People's Party is clear in its demands for the government that one must ensure good emergency preparedness in internal parts of Telemark and in East Agder. This should have been done – and it has been said in this room – before the emergency services at Rjukan were closed. Now we hear about functions being canceled because people quit and find other jobs. It has had a somewhat self-strengthening effect. This is why it is central and important to get enough resources in place to ensure the services we want – with specialist services – at Rjukan. We do not support the proposals that are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1780	The representative of Oluk V. Bollestad has then explained the position of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1783	The central party lost the fight for the local hospital in Rjukan as the majority of the population in June would not intervene and change the development plan of the Hospital Telemark that the Minister of Health and Care had approved. The hospital closure at Rjukan and the hospital in Kragerø and the collection of somatic acute activity and diurnal treatment at Notodden and in Skien were based on patient safety and quality. However, the process clearly showed that the real rationale was the desire for financial savings and centralisation in the healthcare business. However, in spite of the closure, the company still wears out with irresponsible coating percentages and lack of funding for the necessary repairs. There has never been a greater need to create a decentralised specialist health service in Rjukan than now. The central part suggests that a specialist centre be created on the Rjukan according to Hallingdal Sjukestugu model. In addition, we suggest that a so-called ‘free clinic’ is established in Rjukan that can deal with health cows. We ask the government to pay attention to the means of conversion to Health South-East to establish the Rjukan specialist centre, including akklinik. The proposal of the Centre Party is fully in line with the plans for health activity in Rjukan adopted by a joint municipal government in Tinn. The council's words that the decision on the closure of Rjukan Hospital should be relaunched and strengthened cooperation between the Hospital Telemark and Tinn Municipality has not been found. If we read the approved development plan, there are many promises about decentralised services: ‘STHF will facilitate, to the best of its ability, the establishment of LMS in the building mass of the hospital.’;» And on the other hand, ‘STHF’s ambition is to decentralise as many treatment services as possible. It is therefore planned to continue a wide range of hospital services during the day; dialysis, cell toxicity treatment and specialist outpatient clinics, X-rays and laboratory services. It will be assessed on an ongoing basis on the basis of patient needs and technical possibilities for the establishment of further decentralised services.’» This is what the Hospital Telemark said to the people of Upper Telemark, and after the plan was adopted, one has not seen much of this will again. I thought it was alarming to read comments from the majority in Stortinget on this matter. I think it's showing a lack of respect for the people of Rjukan when the goal of equivalent specialist health services, regardless of housing and the development plan's promises of several decentralised services in the local medical centre, is just to be met by private hospital providers and not by the public health services through their care-for-the-counter responsibility. A specialist centre in Rjukan for the people of Upper Telemark is fully possible to establish. It must consist of both the government-funded specialist services and the part of the municipal health services that it is natural to add to such a centre. The specialist centre must consist of two pillars: a bed room, in cooperation with the municipal health service for selected daily treatments, and a wide range of day care and medical outpatient clinics based on Hallingdal Sickestugu model. To the representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen who thinks this is to put the board aside: Yes, that's why we're taking it up in the Stortinget. But on the other hand, the board itself has said this in the development plan, but not followed it up. These are the demands of the people. We're doing exactly what Tin Municipality, with Right-Rapporteurs, would have wanted to be what would be an offer on Rjukan. To the representative of Torgeir Micasen, this is to regulate in detail: Yes, it may be, but there is no more detailed regulation than the Workers' Party proposes, where one refers to the pilot project at Nordfjordeid. When we refer to a model from Hallingdal Sukestugu, it is clear that it has to be adapted locally. It can also read from what is written. In addition, we believe that a surgical free clinic needs to be established according to patterns from Denmark, where one can use the hospital's three good operating rooms to shorten health cows for scheduled operations. There are, in part, long waiting times for surgical treatment today, and nevertheless, the majority vote against the proposal for a public so-called abduction system and leave responsibility for it to individuals who may wish to establish themselves there. With this, I submit my proposals to the Zenterpartiet and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1817	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1820	I would like to start by saying that the Left voted that we should wait for the closure of Rjukan until we have adopted a national health and hospital plan here in Stortinget. A little bit of the background for that is what comes up with the proposal from the Center Party here about the free clinic and the specialist center. There are no more hospital concepts and more health services we need right now, now it's about cleaning up the house we have, with the hospitals we have. Otherwise, we can join much of what the Christian People's Party representative said. Although we voted differently in that case, we may agree more now. That's also some of the reason why we don't want to be part of this proposal from the Central Party. It gives Storting the role of designer of different types of specialist health services and outpatient clinics and whatever it is now, but it also does something about the entire economic and funding system of that kind of service. For us in the Left is the most important thing now that we get a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget, and that for the first time we get such a plan adopted. It will help us a lot in cleaning up. This has been demanding for several lots. The red-green government had a similar round attached to Nordfjordeid. One at least does not come to Stortinget with the same opinion today that one obviously had then put in government. That's now the one. The other thing is that maybe you haven't learned so much of the inner disagreement you had then, and that one can't help putting it on the table now, how to deal with this further. In the case of Hallingdal Sickestugu, Valdre's local medical centre, specialist centres and free clinics, future versions of the decentralised offer are one thing, but I also think we should look back at the hospital policy that we have put on the table here in Stortinget – or perhaps the lack of it, because there has been a tendency for quite large, ambitious plans in many health regions, investments in university hospitals and a large-scale centralisation. Kongsberg Hospital in the neighborhood of Rjukan and Notodden would obviously kill the red-green government, by placing a new Drammen hospital in Eiker. It was a hospital policy where an indirect facilitated a large-scale centralization and did not fully respond to the decentralised offer, about what we saw happened to Nordfjordeid. It says something about it being important to discuss the ambitions we have and what offer we should have in the districts, and that we should not now suddenly adopt in the Stortinget, for example. a free clinic as one of those offers, but that we also discuss thoroughly how much there is in the investment pot for different constructions and different types of services. It also touches on some of the debate we have had earlier today on what should be the responsibility of municipalities. They are facing both large investments and the conversion of their offer related to the ageing population out in many district municipalities. So this is a debate that is very much related, and that is an important reason why we cannot support the proposals of the Central Party here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1835	It's a sad story, the history of the political treatment of Rjukan hospitals. We had a rather fierce debate in this Chamber last June, as most will remember. We also had an impressive local commitment to bus loads on bus loads of people from Tinn who came to show the Storting how compact the local resistance to the construction of the hospital at Rjukan was and is. To the discussion of the extent to which proposing the future health service in Tin is to break the governance principles of the healthcare system, I would just like to stress the following: it was a political decision to stand behind the closure. It was done both by the Minister of Health and by the majority here in Stortinget when proposals were made for something else. It is essential that we have an open discussion about this facing the population, and that those who have been involved also take political responsibility for it. SV voted to postpone the decision on Rjukan Hospital, together with the Center Party and the Left last year. We believe that what happened afterwards reinforces the arguments we had at the time. There is still considerable uncertainty and uncertainty in the area related to the type of supply currently under development. I myself visited Rjukan Hospital not many months ago and I have to say that it makes the impression that there is a hospital with both modern and advanced facilities linked to a variety of offers, a very motivated staff and still a very strong local commitment that has now been agreed upon. It's an area characterized by large distances and a hospital that has cut well on quality, based on the indicators we measure it. I will deal with what was our great concern in the debate last year, namely that it was more economic than professional reasons that led to these decisions, first in the Hospital Telemark and then with political follow-up. It was then promised to renew and update emergency response plans. It is important to ask today whether the promises that were also repeated by the Minister of Health are in fact well cared for. The Telemark Hospital has come up with updates, but without any new measures to provide security for the local population. We record that the majority point to private actors in the setting when discussing the creation of future health services in Rjukan. We believe that the establishment of a local medical centre, the establishment of other resources that can take advantage of that competence, those premises and not least respond to the needs of the area should be a public responsibility. It is a clear responsibility of political authorities and public health to meet the needs of the Rjukan. That is why we support the proposals that the government and the Hospital Telemark should facilitate these new functions. We will underline the need for better cooperation between the Hospital Telemark and the Municipality of Tinn. It is alarming when we hear that so much of the dialogue between health companies and the municipality takes place through the media instead of the close cooperation that we were proposed. We believe that a chewing clinic, a free clinic, can be a good idea, as described in the proposal of the Centre Party. There is also a type of function that, for several reasons, will be exciting to look at in our model, and that we should in any case come back to when we are going to discuss the National Health and Sickness Plan. SV will vote in favour of the proposals we agree to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1849	The Hospital Telemark has adopted a plan for the future development of the hospital, including: means that the emergency operation is moved from Rjukan. This is a matter that we have good knowledge of, after a number of meetings with Health South-East, the Hospital Telemark and Tinn Municipality and through information gathering in connection with a number of questions from Stortinget. I addressed the matter at the company meeting on the basis of the government platform’s formulation that the emergency and food supply should not be cut down, unless it is justified by patient safety and quality, before the national health and hospital plan has been addressed. I believe that the representative Lightbakken is wrong when he claims that the majority in Stortinget took a position on this in a number of these proposals that were voted down last June. The majority in Stortinget stated that it is my responsibility as Minister of Health and Care to hold a business meeting in these kinds of cases. It is not a responsibility of the Stortinget. The representatives Toppe, Lundteigen and Sjelmo Nordås now propose that the Stortinge should give leadership to the government on the further development of Rjukan. This would mean overthrew the development plan of the Hospital Telemark, a development plan that has just been drawn up in line with the responsibility of the health business to ensure the sound, good and forward-looking operation of the health business for the benefit of the population. The municipality of Rjukan is now working on a project to develop the offer in the hospital, such as: financed by the 10 million. as the majority of the Stortinget granted in connection with the State budget for 2015. In the project, both the Hospital Telemark and Health South-East are part of working groups. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Central Party and the Socialist Left do not accept the Hospital Telemark's justification for the decision to terminate the emergency functions on Rjukan. They claim that the real justification is a desire for financial savings and centralisation in the health business. To that I would say that there should not be any surprise that there is a link between poor resource use and economics. It costs a lot to maintain an inappropriate structure that cannot, in the longer term, ensure good quality and patient safety. That cost may have to be borne by the entire Telemark community. When costs are not only of an economic nature, but also of a quality nature, I think we need to dry up some final decisions. In the national health and hospital plan submitted to the autumn, we will discuss different models for the organisation of emergency services in the future hospital. The three representatives are also concerned about whether I am following up that the Hospital Telemark will make an updated plan for prehospital services, as I intended when we discussed the matter of moving the emergency function in a business meeting. In this case, I have to deal with the last review made by the board of directors of the Hospital Telemark on 29 October 2014. The Governing Board approved the Executive Director’s updated Emergency Response and Prehospital Services Plan and asked the Executive Director to update and renew the plan if necessary. The Hospital Telemark informs us that from 1 March there are two daily ambulances available in both Tinn and Vinje. The system is introduced in order not to risk conflicts of co-existence. The Hospital Telemark states that preparedness represents an increase in capacity of ten times estimated needs. I support the Committee in that it will be positive if private people find it appropriate to establish themselves on Rjukan. The government’s proposal for free treatment options could stimulate such a private establishment. In our work on the national health and hospital plan, we have met with user selections across the country, including at the Hospital Telemark. Like all other user selections, they say that in the choice between proximity and quality, quality is the most important, and they support the development plan. This is not just about patients – users – the change at the Hospital Telemark is necessary to ensure a forward-looking specialist healthcare service for all patients throughout the Telemark County.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1869	When we discussed the matter on 17 June last year, the Minister for Health and Health said: ‘This is a decision which also includes a clear requirement that before the emergency offer in Rjukan is closed, a renewal and updating of the plans for the prehospital services, or emergency facilities outside the hospital.’ So I hear the Minister of Health and Health say in his speech that he has taken care of it, and he refers to the decision of the Executive Board on 29 October on a new plan for the prehospital services. I've read that plan. Two daily ambulances were already required in the development plan. I cannot see the difference between what the Minister of Health said in June was not acceptable, and this new plan. The only plan is for anyone to call when a road is connected, but a daily ambulance is nothing new. So what's the big difference with the new, up-to-date plan, which is now good enough for the Minister of Health and Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1879	I understand that the updated plan is more detailed in terms of what will create security when you need prehospital services. As I was in my post as well, the plan will mean that from 1 March there are two daily ambulances, which means that one has a capacity in the two municipalities that are ten times greater than what is estimated need, just to avoid what has been a topic, namely contemporary conflicts. The management of the Hospital Telemark has also been commissioned by his board of directors to follow up on whether there are other challenges that arise, and to continuously update or adjust these plans if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1886	I want to ask you again, because the Minister of Health and Health indicates that the new plan will ensure that there will be two daily ambulances in the two municipalities. My point is that it was also in the development plan. The reason was that, in June, the Minister of Health and Health said that the plan was not good enough. I want to ask you one more time: what's going on in addition to the daily ambulances, which means that the prehospital supply is now good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1891	In line with the development plan, the Hospital Telemark has also strengthened competence both in the case of day-to-day treatment and in the case of emergency facilities. In Skien there is now its own tour with superiors in the emergency reception, and from 1 March 2015 there will be a tour with a specialist doctor in specialisation also in front of Notodden. One, which I've also been up to, has strengthened ambulance preparedness in addition to the estimated need. Now there is also an experience from Christmas and New Year's Week 2014, which must also be involved in the assessment of the offer we are going to make. During the periods when the Hospital Telemark has had to close the emergency function on Rjukan and move the reception of patients from Upper Telemark to Notodden, there have been fewer arrivals than estimated needs in the development plan. This means that that capacity now considers the Hospital Telemark to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1898	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1903	I think it has been a good debate. It is clear that there are divisions as to the extent to which the Storting is going to intervene in how the boards of the health company and the administration want to take care of their responsibilities, and now we are talking about Telemark. It's been an exhilarating battle. What I'm concerned about now is that the municipality of Tinn, the hospital of Telemark and possibly other actors, if other actors want to do so, get up a good health service for the population. What we know is that there are an incredible number of chronic diseases, whether coal, diabetes or heart problems, that are going to need specialist health care for a long time, and we see that a lot of treatment is being decentralised. We saw that, among other things. in Valdres, where, among other things: add to dialysis and cytotoxic therapy. So I think this is something you have to look at in the future, how you can take advantage of the skills that are available, and how you get an offer to the people who are also qualitative in surgery. There is no basis for performing emergency surgery in a place where there are fewer than 5,000 people. It is simply not possible to recruit competent staff. As far as the economy is concerned, we have had this debate with the Labour Party before: What is sufficient and not sufficient in health businesses? We want to point out that in the period that the government has been sitting, there has never been so much growth. I myself was at St. Olav's Hospital last week, which thought that there was a good framework for both research and specialised patient treatment. It's clear, it's been two years of a period, we're going to run specialized services anymore, and the economy I don't want to shoot. But at least we're concerned about having a good framework, and I think that's what you actually have, in order to make offers in the future today. I hope that you can look forward to this matter and rather back up the activities that will happen in the premises. As I said, the municipality has already received means of conversion so that you can start that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1912	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1926	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1933	It has been an exciting matter to be rapporteur for, for there are many discussions here. There has been a good debate in the committee. Alcohol is one of the three main risk factors for poor health and early death in Europe. Norway is part of Europe, so it is also one of our main health challenges. The Committee has noted that for alcoholic beverages containing more than 1,2 % by volume of alcohol in Article 16(1) 4 The Food Information Regulation provides for derogations from the labelling requirement with the list of ingredients and the nutrition declaration. Therefore, the indication of ingredients in the products is not required. It's a paradox that what's one of the greatest challenges for us should not be noticed with what it contains. Nor does it require an indication of the energy content, fat content, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins and salt in the products. The Committee refers to the points made by the proposers that the non-labelling of alcoholic beverages weakens consumer rights, as the Consumer Council questioned when we had a hearing. It's a paradox that we make demands on all other consumables, but what we wear most is not marked. I'm sure the other parties will say something about where they stand in this case, so I'm going over to say where the Christian People's Party stands in this case. The view of the Christian People's Party is shared with the Diabetes Association and the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations, those of our patient organisations that are growing very, and who feel that this is especially important for their groups, precisely because they need to know what they are ingesting. Unfortunately, there is a minority in the Committee who support the proposal to introduce content labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages in Norway, in line with several other European countries that have introduced content labelling for alcoholic beverages. In addition, the Christian People’s Party, together with the Centre Party, promotes proposals for ‘health warnings about alcohol use during pregnancy and driving’. It's a paradox that we notice all the other dangerous substances for pregnant women, or that can reduce our ability to drive, but we don't touch the alcohol. It is in a way not possible to touch it, because then we are against the fact that it is a legal product. But it's not on that planet at all when the Christian People's Party takes this discussion. We know it's a big challenge to drive in a drug-affected state. We know we have a big challenge with pregnant people using alcohol. When 60 pst. by pregnant women say that when they go to their first, second or third controls, they are not actually told where they are being explained the consequences of alcohol use during pregnancy, we have a challenge to show that this is harmful to pregnant women. I – and the Christian People’s Party – think it is a paradox that other countries have shown this by small labels. They're showing a pregnant woman with a cross over. They're showing a car with a cross over. Then we can go to our own medications. When we distribute painkillers or other drugs that are dangerous, a red triangle is on. So this is not possible in terms of alcohol, which is one of the biggest public health issues we have. We live in a country that claims to be a country of public health, but there is no political will to do anything about the issue that costs Health Norway perhaps the most. We have the courage to do so in the case of cigarettes, and we have the courage to do so in the case of snuffs, but this matter we dare not touch. I am promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1959	The President takes the view that Mr Bollestad's representative has then taken up proposals No. 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1962	A large majority of consumers want alcoholic beverages to be marked with relevant and correct content information, as is the experience of very many – really all – other foods. We have also learned that allergy labelling has recently been applied to alcoholic beverages over 1.2 pst., and this gives us as gradually as possible. Alcohol contains significant amounts of calories. It may vary slightly from the alcohol product to the alcohol product, but information on the calorie content is particularly important for diabetics, but also unusually important information to enable the population to take more informed health choices. The Labour Party supports the proposal that the government return to Stortinget by the end of 2015 with a case on how content labelling can be introduced on alcoholic beverages in Norway. We see this as a clear consumer rights requirement, but also as an exceptionally important public health measure. We also want to promote another option to see if we are able to have a majority – we hope that we will be able to do so – and there is a need for the government to assess the impact on the EEA Agreement and small-scale producers by introducing such a label. It turns out that since the introduction of the EEA Agreement, relations with the EU and the EEA have been central to Norwegian alcohol policy. At the time, we were introduced and implemented for the principle of a regulated trading system based on precise public health. We believe that Norway has been able to maintain a significant alcohol policy area within the framework of the EEA and to clearly establish and maintain a restrictive alcohol policy. In the case of small-scale manufacturers, the Labour Party expects that a requirement for labelling will almost automatically lead to the establishment of a cost-effective system that will provide small-scale manufacturers with the analytical tool they need. Here we believe in the market mechanisms. This has gone quite well in other areas where small-scale producers have made their mark. It is also possible that labelling content will increase the interest of locally produced beers if it appears that, as many claim, these products have a healthier content than other alcohol choices. The working party has chosen not to support the proposal to label alcoholic beverages with a negative health effect during pregnancy and the use of alcohol while driving this round. There's something about rock on rock and at least get the main principle implemented in the first place. However, we record that about half of those asked in a relevant study also want alcohol to be labelled with such warnings. Finally, we regret that in Norway today, despite the high health risk of alcohol, we are unable to provide good enough data to enable politicians to agree on a common factual basis. We hope that the government will now be able to generate data, so that we do not always have the discussion about which sources to refer to. The Labour Party has highlighted the feedback we have received almost unambiguously from all health professionals, that drugrelated harm and disease have increased considerably in recent years, and that recent research has also shown that there is a correlation between alcohol and a number of diagnoses, which is increasing to an extent. Finally, I am promoting the proposals behind the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1981	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e1984	Alcohol use is one of the three main risk factors for poor health and early death in Europe, and it is important to increase the public’s knowledge of the relationship between alcohol and health. In Norway, as in the rest of Europe, the content declaration for food is required and alcohol is, as previously mentioned, exempted from that requirement. This case is not primarily about alcohol and its adverse effects, but about the labelling of the ingredients and the nutrient content shall be required for alcoholic beverages in Norway. There is reason to believe that many will be surprised when they see how many calories are present in alcoholic beverages. We believe that each consumer will have the opportunity to make informed choices. The increase in the weight of today's population is a public health challenge, and the nutrition declaration, where the consumer is given knowledge of the calorie content of the various beverages, can lead to a healthier choice for consumers. It is currently fully possible for producers of alcoholic beverages on a voluntary basis to label the product with the nutrition declaration and list of ingredients, if they so wish. Several alcoholic beverages sold in Norway have such labelling today, and it is positive. There are many advantages to the labelling of alcohol content, but at the same time there are challenges in introducing a curious labelling of alcoholic beverages. Norwegian alcohol sales are characterised by a rich selection of products from many small and large producers. Specific legislation could severely restrict the selection. A consequence of such a special regulation could result in a severe reduction in the supply of niche products and could limit the selection of the wine monopoly. The Food Information Regulation was implemented in Norwegian law through the Food Information Regulation, which entered into force on 13 December last year. It provides for a derogation for the labelling requirement with the list of ingredients and the nutrition declaration for beverages containing more than 1,2 % by volume of alcohol. The European Commission shall draw up a report to the Council and the European Parliament assessing whether alcoholic beverages should also be subject to the Food Information Regulation. It is our opinion that it is best to await the report of the European Commission. We do not consider it appropriate to start work on the possible national regulation of the labelling of alcoholic beverages with a list of ingredients and a nutrition declaration now. We agree, in principle, that alcoholic beverages should also be subject to the labelling of ingredients and nutrients requirement, but we do not want to introduce rules in spite of the rest of Europe. We therefore consider it natural to await the report before deciding whether to introduce national requirements. If we adopt strange rules now, we are anticipating an imminent process at EU level, and in addition, there is reason to raise questions as to whether it will at all be an opportunity to give strange rules. Norway must comply with the EEA Agreement as regards the internal market and trade. As mentioned earlier, the regulation on the labelling of food and drink was implemented as late as December 2014. This EU process remains to be awaited. In addition, it is worth mentioning that Norway also contributes to that process and has people in place who are trying to influence, and it is therefore under assessment right now whether this derogation should be removed. It can also be mentioned that there are already rules that take account of consumer concerns in this area. Among other things, it should be labelled if it contains allergenic substances. In the light of this, we do not support the proposal to introduce strange rules for the labelling of alcoholic beverages. This is the case with the hazard marking in connection with driving and during pregnancy. It is true that if you are pregnant and do not realize that alcohol is dangerous to you before you come to the pole and see the marking on the bottle, then we have a challenge that is much greater than labelling on alcoholic drinks or one. I agree that it is important to inform about the adverse effects of alcohol, but we may be able to find other measures. Warning triangle is a measure on medicinal product packages. I wanted to think it was special to have a warning triangle on wine bottles. All wine and beer and all bottles of spirits are labelled with a percentage of alcohol, and it should in itself be a warning to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2007	Few things are more engaging than when Norwegian alcohol policy is to be discussed, and although the case-rapporteur, Mr Bollestad, pointed out that Norway is part of Europe, some people want us to see no more than the national border when it comes to alcohol policy. For some it is no longer desirable to be part of Europe and the world. They want to have their own policies and policies and will not await the European Commission's report on whether alcoholic beverages should be subject to labelling requirements. Everyone knows that alcohol in excess is not health promotion, but we must be no more Catholic than the pope. We need to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time, and not put ourselves in a situation that will be hopeless to live with for both small-scale producers and foreign exporters, who contribute to a solid diversity in both wine and beer in the country's pole and shop shelves. Alcohol consumption in Norway is almost the same as in 1980 and has declined every year since 2008. The onset of alcohol by young people is later than in the past. It's a positive development. And without any labelling in place, but through good information campaigns and follow-up of pregnant women, nine out of ten women have managed to quit alcohol when they find out they're expecting children. The Progress Party also sees some advantages in content labelling, but also challenges in introducing a special demand that can be highly distortive, especially for Norwegian small-scale producers. There have been many such developments in recent years, including very skilled microbreweries. They are involved in offering Norwegian consumers a varied and local selection of beverages. It creates jobs in the districts and involvement around local products. If they are subject to content labelling, they will involve high costs, job losses and poorer selection for Norwegian consumers. These producers simply do not have the finances to acquire the necessary laboratory equipment or to purchase expensive analytical services for their very different bridges. It is worth remembering that beer brewing has long traditions in Norway. The Gulatings Act provided for strict penalties for those who failed to brew beer. The law says: "But the beer shall be signed Christ and Saint Mary, to good year and peace. [[...]] if there is no brewing at that time, he shall pay three ears to the bishop [[...]] Yes, times have truly changed. In addition, it is worth recalling that questions have been raised as to whether a particular form of content labelling may be contrary to EU competition law. The labelling requirement will have to cover approx. 1 000 imported beer brands and the approx. 9000 different foreign wine products currently in the possession of the monopoly of wine. What will happen if these suppliers experience Norway as the high castle of bureaucracy, where a labelling system makes it more expensive and more complicated to sell their goods? Well, more people want to look for markets other than Norwegian. And who's losing it? Yes, the Norwegian consumer. The selection's getting worse. The position of the monopoly of wine, many of which are very concerned, could actually be weakened. I believe the average Norwegian consumer agrees that product diversity is fine, and that it is good that Pole's offer has evolved from more than Norsk Red Wine, Brandy Special and half bottles of 60 pst. The Progress Party is part of the majority that concludes that it is appropriate to follow the EU process on content labelling. It would be difficult for Norwegian authorities to impose an obligation on non-resident producers to do so. How should this be done in practice? And in what language? Rather than introducing a labelling scheme that threatens Norwegian jobs in the brewing industry, the wine monopoly would be difficult to implement and comply with, for example. by serving bottled beer in the pub and restaurant and by being of little help to those who already have an alcohol problem, we should focus even more on information at school and on health professionals such as nurses, nurses, doctors and midwives. Good public health is important and a bet area for the government. By doing so, I also believe that we must continue to pay attention to keeping alcohol consumption at a low European level. Of course, if there are EU directives that require all producers to introduce content labelling, they will also have an impact here on the country. Or not: I will still enjoy the unmarked, but yet so excellent beer from the country's oldest brewery, Aass Brewery in Drammen, in safe assurance that it is brewed on malt, hops and water and is suitable for spreading joy in good times.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2043	This is certainly an issue of political arbitration. It is a paradox that food sold in Norway must have a content declaration — except alcohol, which is one of the three most important risk factors for poor health and early death in Europe. I think it is important to increase the knowledge of the population about the relationship between alcohol and health, as opposed to the previous speaker, who thought it was most important to inform children, nurses and ligaments. The centre party believes that the exemption from the food labelling system that the alcohol industry has is weakening consumer rights. For this reason, we have come up with this proposal that one should set requirements for labelling alcohol and information on both ingredient and calorie labelling. We also support the Christian People's Party's proposal to introduce health warnings when it concerns alcohol use during pregnancy and driving. What's good is that this case has come to light that there's a large number of people who want such a label scheme. Both Actis’ investigation and Norstat’s investigation on behalf of the Consumer Council show that the large majority of the population wants labelling of all alcohol. In this case, it looks like we don't get multiple numbers because the Left joins with the Right and the Advance Party in another important health issue, but I'm glad that the Christian People's Party is with the Center Party, and that the Labour Party and the SV also support the proposal today. Because this is about prevention. Actis says it so well in his letter to the Committee: ‘Norwegian consumers have the right to know what they drink in order to make informed choices. The right to information and public health considerations are two important principles which cannot give rise to the argument that labelling alcohol may constitute a barrier to trade in the EU system.’ During the hearing, there was considerable support for the proposal on alcohol labelling. Both the Norwegian Medical Association, the Diabetes Association, the Consumer Council and the Actis support the proposal. I found it sad that the Stortinget is moving in the wrong direction here, because, in the context of the 2012 drug notification, the Red-Green Government received its proposal to work to introduce requirements for the labelling of alcoholic beverages cross-politically from a joint health and care committee. I think Norway should have gone ahead in public health work. We've done it, and we should still do it, and we should set a standard for consumer information on alcohol, so that all consumers can make knowledge-based choices. The centre party will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Left. I'll also say hello from the Christian People's Party and say that they do the same. Finally, a few comments to the previous speaker. The representative of Stensland is unanimous in principle, but it helps so little when he has no political will to do anything about it. And that there will be a severe reduction in niche production, which is used by several parties as an argument for not voting for this: the centre party has been clear in its remarks that if it is the niche producers that are problematic, we can give them some transitional arrangements. But we're not going to push the niche producers to lead us and let the rest of the big alcohol industry get away easily. Waiting for the work of the European Commission is just a bad excuse for not having a political will in this matter. So for health warnings: it's produced as a happy thing that nine out of ten pregnant people didn't drink alcohol, but I think there's a lot of it when 10 pst. of pregnant new alcohol and is not totally detainable, when we know that this is something that is directly harmful to the foetus. When the representative of Stensland points out that we do not need information about – or triangle or something like that – I think that he, as a representative of the pharmaceutical industry, has a completely different view. There are perfectly clear rules that anything that can't prove is not harmful to the fetus should be marked. Once again, we treat alcohol in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2072	First of all, I would like to commend the proposers, because this is an important matter and an important debate. Then I would say that in its eagerness to produce political conflict, one cannot discuss this on a basis as if we are in North Korea. We're dealing here with a lot of laws, and first of all, we need to know what's up with what laws are in the situation we're in right now. Therefore, the left considers that there is a very good reason to wait for more countries and for more actors to work on both investigations and the possibility to introduce alcohol content labelling and not to attempt to introduce strange demands now. What we can do today is meet the wishes of Norwegian consumers to get more information about alcoholic beverages and actually create an advantage for Norwegian producers. This skill we can start on, and that is why the Left promotes its own, pragmatic and progressive proposal for a split layer between many actors – both brewers, producers, microbreweries, for that matter, and also the laboratory sector. Laboratories are one of the obstacles to starting this today, with a lack of capacity. There is a significant analytical capacity to implement this. That is why I believe that it is now a rather unrealistic proposal to take over the table in Stortinget. But the debate here today and the matter I believe shows that there is a majority in the Stortinget for the principle of content labelling, and I think that is a victory that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party should also take with them. They have the opportunity to have a majority in favour of this principle through the proposal that the Workers' Party and the Left jointly promote for an investigation. Of course, when the Left does not get a majority in favour of the proposal for a pilot project, we are voting in favour of the proposal for an investigation in order to gain more knowledge of how we can move forward here in order to achieve this, and also to create capacity in Norwegian laboratories and other actors to achieve this. Technological developments make this fully possible. So it's a recommendation to the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, and also, for that matter, to follow the Workers' Party and the Left's proposal for an investigation to bring about an actual change of policy in this area. I would then like to promote the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2088	The representative, Ketil Kjeseth, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2091	At the risk of this developing into a competition for who can have the warmest shelves of their local brewery – there was Morten Wold strongly ahead – I just have to stress that I believe that for all of us mountainers in the hall, it is not that you are less happy in your local brewery, in our case Hansa, if you go in to have a table of contents on the label. It's not going to make any difference to the good news, I think the representative Wold can be sure of that. It's not an unrealistic proposal that's being promoted here today, it's a proposal that the government should come back to the Stortinget with a case by the end of the year, which gives the government a certain amount of time to work on how to enforce such a rule. It is good that it still seems to be a majority of the principle, although it does not become a majority for the present proposal, because it is a remarkable thing that we do not have the same kind of content labelling requirements for these products that we have for other foods. It's about two things. It is about the possibility of making informed choices as a consumer – many are, for example: Taking into account the calorie content of what we get into us – but it's also about security and an opportunity for increased control that things don't come into the products we have in us that shouldn't be there. Having that kind of requirement can also help strengthen our control of it. So there's another discussion here: what's within and what's outside the EEA Agreement? We want to warn against a development in which we impose on ourselves a tighter and tighter interpretation of the contract, and it is difficult to understand that such a modest measure and an obvious consumer requirement as this would bring us into line with the EEA. We record that there is no majority in favour of the proposal to ask the government to come back with a matter of content labelling. Therefore, the SV will vote in a subsidiary way for the Left's proposal to investigate the consequences, so that we can participate and secure a majority in this matter and start a process in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2104	Good consumer information on all foods and beverages is important in order to facilitate informed choices for consumers. I believe that all alcoholic beverages should be labelled, as is done with other foods. This is important from a consumer point of view, but also in the interests of public health. The Code on Food and Drink Labelling has been harmonised in the EEA area by the Food Information Regulation, EU Regulation No. 1169/2011, which entered into force in the EU and Norway on 13 December 2014. This Regulation lays down harmonised and detailed labelling requirements. These requirements are not minimum requirements. Chapter 5 of that Regulation also provides for rules on the admission of Member States to set national labelling requirements. It also includes alcoholic beverages. The legislation currently requires all alcoholic beverages containing more than 1,2 % by volume of alcohol to be labelled with the alcoholic strength by volume. Furthermore, the content of a number of ingredients or substances which may cause allergies or intolerance shall be labelled on alcoholic beverages, as is done on other foods. Alcoholic beverages with more than 1,2 % by volume of alcohol are exempted from the requirement to include a list of ingredients and a nutrition declaration. For all other prepacked foods, the labelling requirement with an ingredient list already applies today. The requirement for labelling with a nutrition declaration applies to all other prepackaged foods from 13 December 2016. The transitional period shall allow operators time to adapt. Under the Food Information Regulation, the European Commission shall draw up a report to the Council and Parliament assessing in particular whether alcoholic beverages are to be covered by the requirements of the Regulation for labelling containing the list of ingredients and the nutrition declaration. The report should have been submitted by 13 December 2014 but, unfortunately, it has been delayed. I am aware that the European Commission has informed that a draft report is for internal consideration by the European Commission. I see it as natural to await this report from the European Commission, and I am pleased that the majority of the Committee also agrees. In the future, I will work to ensure that alcoholic beverages are covered by the requirement of the Food Information Regulation, and I will address the question when I meet my colleagues in the EU, among others. when I travel to Brussels at the end of this month. I know that there has been a focus on the delayed report of the Health and Environment Committee in the European Parliament, at the latest in the Committee's last meeting, which was at the end of January. I therefore do not see it as natural to start work on any national regulation of the labelling of alcoholic beverages with the list of ingredients and the nutrition declaration now. However, I take reservations if the process in the EU would prove to take an unreasonable amount of time. A thorough assessment is required to determine whether this will allow national provisions to be made. I do not know that any other EEA country has developed and notified such rules since the adoption of the Food Information Regulation in 2011. However, any national requirements for the labelling of ingredients in force before the adoption of the Regulation may be continued. Norway has not adopted such provisions. The Food Information Regulation does not prevent alcoholic beverages from being labelled on a voluntary basis with a list of ingredients and a nutrition declaration. Pending clarification of its labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages, it is possible for the industry to label such beverages. I have registered that several alcoholic beverages sold in Norway have the type of labelling, and I am positive about that. I would also like to follow developments in EEA countries in warning labelling of alcoholic products.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2126	The Minister of Health of a former bourgeois government took the courageous choice to go ahead when it came to the smoking law. There was a lot of discussion that time as well. Norway has managed to live with and further develop the alcohol policy space we have through the EEA Agreement. What prevents the Minister of Health in today's civil government from taking public health and consumer leadership by leading Norway in this field, when we have been able to do so under the smoke law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2131	I have notified that I am sending a proposal at the hearing which makes me think that we are going ahead again in terms of smoking and tobacco in Norway. It will be exciting to see how the Storting behaves to that proposal. On the issue of labelling alcoholic beverages in the same way as other foods, from both a consumer point of view and a public health point of view, I have no other approach to this issue than that this is something that is now actively being worked on in the EU system, and that it would be natural for Norway to wait for what comes from there, see what legislation it comes to there, when they have come so far in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2138	I'm so lucky that I've just been to Brussels with Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, and they haven't really come that far. There is most discussion about alcohol and driving, although some countries, such as France, have gone ahead, at least in the EU context, especially regarding labelling related to pregnancy. So I think – as I see the debate in the European Union – that we are at the forefront of understanding. So why not dry out taking that leadership when it went so well last – when Norway took leadership in the smoking law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2143	Now I am a little uncertain whether the representative is talking about general rules relating to the content of the alcoholic products or to the warning marking. I explained in my contribution to the process and how far it has come in terms of the rules related to the content declaration. I will also have a meeting with the European Commissioner at the end of this month, where this topic will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2148	I think it is affordable, what the Council of State has done in the case of smoke and snuff, and that has been sent out to the hearing. I've said that, and I stand for that. But what makes it necessary to wait and see what others do when other countries now take the lead in labelling content and warning labelling on alcohol? Why won't the Council of State lift the flag here, too, as we have done in the case of smoke, precisely because there is so much health benefit, and precisely because people are asking for a statement of content on what they are going to drink? When the majority say that, what makes you hold back more alcohol than on other goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2155	Once again, I experience that one combines two different themes. One relates to the content labelling of alcoholic products. I said in my post that I think it is important to have good consumer information on all foods and beverages, in order to facilitate that consumers can make informed choices. That is why I believe that all alcoholic beverages should be labelled, as one does with other foods. I have not registered any country in Europe that is a member of the EU as leading in this respect. I perceive that the other countries have the same approach to this as Norway has. I have had a little bit of an impression in the debate that what is a major public health issue in terms of alcohol is that it is not labelled. But there is a requirement for it to be labelled. Alcoholic products above the minimum limit are not sold in Norway which are not labelled with alcohol. So that gives consumers good information about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2162	I have listened to the Minister of Health and Care. He said that the government would not start a work on the content declaration now, but would wait for the EU to do its work, unless the work in the EU would take an unreasonably long time. Then my question is, what is unreasonably long time for the Council of State? Is it six months? Is it one year, two years, three years, five years? Can the Council of State say something about what is unreasonably long time in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2170	No, the government hasn't decided what's unreasonably long. But, as I said, I'm going to visit the European Commissioner – if I don't remember wrong – on Monday. This will then be a topic, and then I will also get an idea of how progress is in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2175	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2180	When I'm listening to the debate, I wonder if we're discussing from a patient and consumer perspective, or whether we're doing it from the industry's perspective. I think it's a paradox when the government says it's the patient's health service, and assumes that's what they're going to build, and most of our people say they actually want user information – want to know what they're drinking, and want to see more on the alcohol bottles than the volume of alcohol. So I know that I also think it's a paradox that we're good at warning about other things that are dangerous to pregnant people and to people who are driving, while when it comes to labelling alcohol, it's in the forehead of other countries that have a warning, which is another way to notice – while we don't want to take a leading role here and join in and pull the load. I find that we want to wait and see, and I think that, given that it is one of the biggest health problems we have, is quite defensive when we know that alcohol is such a big challenge, and when pregnant women say they don't get information that it's so dangerous when they go to the firm. Then we have a challenge, and it is the Christian People's Party that wants us to take on board in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2187	I felt a certain need to clarify after Kjersti Toppe's article. I have great respect for Kjersti Toppe's commitment to this matter, and I also find it nice that she takes me into her mind when she makes contributions, but it is quite special to be called a representative of the pharmaceutical industry when I stand here. I stand here as a representative of the Right from Rogaland and speak on behalf of the Right in the case. I haven't worked in the pharmaceutical industry since 1999, so it's going to be dragging it very far, and I want to ask that one not try to stamp people this way – to the extent that it's a stamp. As far as I know, there are no professional groups that have their own representatives here in the Chamber, we are all elected. That said, it's also said that we don't want to label alcoholic drinks. I said we will, but we have taken over the fact that we have ratified the EEA Agreement, and we have certain obligations there. Both the Minister of Health and the undersigned have said that we want this kind of labelling in place, but we want to do it in an order that doesn't give us any special disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2194	I want to regret that I said what I said. I was not aware that I used those words until I was made aware of it. It was not meant to say that the representative of the pharmaceutical industry was Stensland. So I'm sorry, and I'd like to have it fixed in the minutes. The representative of Stensland is a representative of the Right in Rogaland, he is a pharmacist, he is involved in pharmaceutical policy, and he also knows that there are clear labelling requirements for all medicinal products if they are harmful to the unborn child, or if one cannot exclude that they are harmful to the unborn child. That's what was my point. So I also think that it should be as natural to label alcoholic beverages with consumer information about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2201	I again need to clarify, because I put quite a lot of work and diligence into the letters that I send to the committee. The first sentence of the letter which I sent to the Committee, already while the Committee was dealing with the matter, is: ‘I want and believe it is important to label all alcoholic beverages in the same way as other foods, both from the point of view of consumers and the public.’ That's my point of view, and we're working for that. What one really takes a stand for is what should be the reasonable progress in this, but I believe that there is a broad consensus on that. In some of the debates, it may appear, especially when referring to the Consumer Ombudsman’s studies, that some are opposed to providing good information to consumers. No, I think there's a broad consensus on that. What is not a broad consensus is having your own health warnings on alcoholic beverages. It is a proposal that I record that only the Central Party and the Christian People's Party support in this Chamber. There's another discussion, and it's important not to mix these two things together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2227	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2233	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2241	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that combat interpreters covered by the new scheme are guaranteed the right and effective opportunity to come to Norway for their application to be dealt with under the new scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2297	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2305	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a public inquiry into female health in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2338	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6 and 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a review of the LAR scheme in Norway and promoting measures to ensure the quality of supply and to reduce overdoses and deaths with LAR medicine.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce its own charge for the supply of LAR medicine from pharmacies and to impose requirements on the content of the offer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2372	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a free-of-charge system, including long-term prevention, for women in LAR.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the long-term effects of LAR are re-established in children born to LAR mother.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2394	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to ensure the quality of the LAR offer in prison.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify the rules for the interaction between State and municipal responsibilities for LAR patients.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the safe use of the individual patient plan in the LAR.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2437	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 6, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 7 and 8, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 7 and 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government as soon as possible, under the theme ‘body and health’ of the curriculum for the subject of natural sciences, to add objectives of competence for the use of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of quality indicators for antibiotic use outside hospitals and targeted interventions against doctors with an excessive prescription level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2471	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the teaching on the professionally sound use of antibiotics for doctors trained abroad and in Norwegian medical training and in other health professional training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2488	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the prompt introduction of diagnostic codes for antibiotic prescription on all prescriptions, in a manner which preserves privacy.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all hospitals draw up plans for the implementation of guidelines and highlighting competences on the rational use of antibiotics as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all hospitals monitor their own antibiotic use, with systematic reporting to managers and prescribers.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all hospitals regularly treat their own antibiotic use in the antibiotic committee, quality selection or similar, with concrete improvement objectives.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide all schools in Norway with adequate and good information on the e-Bug programme, with the aim of increasing its use.’ The voting boards showed that there were 50 votes in favour and 49 votes against the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2521	My vote was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2526	Neither did mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2531	So let's do this one again. It is then first voted on the proposals No. 2–5, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2543	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2564	The President assumes that the Right and the Advance Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2596	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No. 3 and 9, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No. 4-7, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left 8 and 10, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 11 and 12, by Kjersti Toppe, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 13, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party The President drew attention to the fact that Mr Bollestad, in his speech, pointed out that the Christian People's Party was going to be the co-sponsor for proposal No. 9 in the settings summary. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In 2015, the government is asked to present a plan for strengthening the school health service, from childhood to even secondary school, and for stepping up faster than today.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2636	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote measures that can provide several physiotherapists in the school health service.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to increase the number of municipal psychologists, to give health sisters referral rights to municipal psychologists as well, and to undertake work to make psychologists an integral part of the school health service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2658	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 10, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to monitor the level of competence of health centre and school health services and to further strengthen the work on empowerment of employees through municipal competence plans where necessary.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the county councillors follow tighter municipalities which do not provide a sound health centre and school health service, that the county councillors have a mandate and sufficient resources to carry out more stringent reactions and to help children and young people, including the school councils, to be consulted on supervision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2680	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to introduce an opportunity for health sisters to pass on/refer young people to the BUP, with a copy to the district council.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater efforts to recruit more men and minority speakers for the profession of nurse.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether allowances in education, gender or similar schemes can be included as a recruitment measure by several men and minority speakers.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how cooperation between school health services, opticians and eye specialists can improve’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2712	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting a quality-based minimum standard for health centre and school health services [[in primary, secondary and secondary schools]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2729	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised National Budget for 2015, to strengthen the funding of the school health services and health centres, including the designation of the funds for the service for the entire school cycle during an escalation period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2746	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for measures to better integrate school health services in the work on non-response, especially in secondary education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose ways of strengthening cooperation between services for children, young people and their families, such as child protection, the BUP, health and school health services, the general medical service and the PPT, including assessing new forms of organisation that meet the challenges of children, young people and their families. the experience gained with the ‘House of the Family’ model.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2784	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 6-8, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6-8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘By the end of 2015, the government is asked to set up a specialist centre in Rjukan, modelled on Hallingdal Sukestugu.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «In 2015, the government is asked to establish a public cows-abbreviation clinic in Rjukan.» [[free clinic]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the designation of the necessary means of conversion to Health South-East RHF in order to establish Rjukan specialist centres, including free clinics.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2820	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose 30 million in the revised national budget for 2015. SEK annually to Health South-East for three years, for a project to contribute to conversion and new activity in Rjukan in close cooperation with Tinn Municipality, Telemark County Municipality, Telemark Hospital and Innovation Norway. The project should take advantage of the experience gained from the national pilot project at Nordfjordeid Local Hospital and seek to use relevant national funds from, for example, Health Care21 and Raskers Back.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government in the forthcoming National Health and Hospital Plan to provide information on investment needs and development opportunities at the Hospital Telemark.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government, at the latest, in the context of the 2017 State Budget, to propose investment loans related to the implementation of the necessary initial investments at the Hospital Telemark.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised National Budget for 2015, to explain in detail what pre-hospital measures have been taken, including measures at the emergency hospital, in order to receive patients who would have previously been treated by Rjukan.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the hospital offer in Telemark, including providing a sufficient financial space to carry out the transitions in the best possible way, and at the same time asking the government in its proposals for the revised National Budget for 2015 to promote concrete measures with proposals for funding to ensure adequate emergency preparedness in the areas concerned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2873	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to consider establishing a pilot project in which producers, the Vinmonopolet and the laboratory industry are commissioned to develop an information portal and digital labelling scheme for alcoholic beverages and to cooperate in establishing an analytical capacity for the content declaration of alcoholic beverages which may also include microbreweries and small-scale producers in line with small-scale food producers.’ [[e.g. QR encoding]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2905	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the introduction of a labelling scheme for alcoholic beverages with health warnings on the use of alcohol during pregnancy and during driving.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2920	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for no impact on the EEA Agreement, small-scale producers and national alcohol and food legislation by introducing labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages.’ The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e2937	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By the end of 2015, the government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Storting to introduce requirements for labelling alcoholic beverages in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-17.ana.ud477e3077	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
