ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e259	The representatives of Jenny Klinge, Mazyar Keshvari and Olug V. Bollestad, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Kåre Simensen from 15 June onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Ingarill Olsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e288	Ingenilla Olsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e296	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e299	On behalf of the representatives of Martin Henriksen, Helga Pedersen, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to secure the departments of the Veterinary Institute in the green sector and aquaculture in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e304	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e307	On behalf of the Green Party and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the environmental tax on lead hail.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e312	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should derogate from the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 3 on today's map has been completed, then total voting according to case No. 4–39 at the end of the day’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e330	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e337	In several areas, there is an overall committee which supports government policy in the legislative part of the revised National Budget for 2015. This means unanimity related to legislative changes such as: exceptional provision in the land interest rate tax on self-production in industry. This applies to the deduction of payments to non-resident pension schemes. It also applies to the extended possibility of providing regulations on intra-group transfers across borders. It is agreed that the oil tax regime will be removed. There is also agreement on a new regulatory framework requiring cash registers. Furthermore, with the exception of the Centre Party, there is also an agreement on new depreciation rules for wind power, which can be an important contribution to increasing the new renewable production of electricity in Norway. Then there are some important changes in the law that a majority backs up, which relate to transfers of tasks from the customs and tax haven to the tax haven. This is part of a major reform undertaken by the government to improve tax management, by bringing together tax and tax management into the tax system. The reform also provides that customs’ core tasks related to the movement of goods and border controls should be strengthened. The tax revenue will be subject to overall control responsibilities in the field of taxation, including taxes on goods, which together will strengthen control in this area. These changes are part of the government’s efforts to achieve better and more efficient use of resources in general government, and these changes will also contribute to improving the provision of services to citizens. I'm assuming that the minority will argue for their views on these questions. It also concerns the issue of the governmentisation of the chemical function, which is perhaps the area that has received the most attention in the context of the national budget this spring. Various organisations, municipalities, regions and individuals have had a high level of involvement in this matter. In the view of the government and the Right, the government will make an important contribution to strengthening the control of employers and thus the fight against labour-life crime and the black economy, and in the government's proposal there was also a proposal to strengthen this effort with 59 annual works from 1 January 2016. We also see it as an important contribution to equal treatment and greater legal certainty, and not least it should also be a simplification measure for taxpayers, which does not relate to several agencies, such as today. Through the examination of this matter in the context of the revised national budget, a majority have noted that there are some issues that can be further elaborated on, among others. the transfer of business and the rights of employees in that connection and the consequences for municipalities of a change. Furthermore, it is natural that the proposed changes can also be seen in a wider context with other ongoing change processes. This implies that the majority does not support this amendment from 1 January 2016 but asks the government to further address these issues. A minority promote proposals for extended country-by-country reporting. There is broad agreement on the importance of focusing on issues related to capital volatility and transparency on cross-border capital flows. The government is also very concerned about finding good solutions to combat this, and Norway is already a priority country when we have implemented and put into force national country-by-country reporting requirements to make the activities of businesses visible and to avoid companies draining poor countries for non-renewable natural resources. We are already going beyond the EU rules in this area. The majority do not support this proposal because an evaluation of the Norwegian country-by-country legislation has already been announced after three years and the EU itself will evaluate its legislation in 2018. In addition, these are global issues that are addressed by several countries – because it is important in the fight against poverty, but also because it is important to protect our own tax base in Norway as well as in other countries with which we can compare. Therefore, there is already a great deal of focus on so-called tax havens in many Western countries, and therefore international cooperation is also through, inter alia, body Financial Action Task Force important. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e375	I thought I would comment on the fee bit in particular. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that the government parties Right, the Progress Party and the supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party have challenges in finding containment for the posts they have negotiated into this year's budget. Instead of re-prioritising within the budget, the four batches propose increases in fees and also new fees to cover additions for purposes negotiated by the Left and Christian People's Party and which we now see in the revision of the budget that they have to go back on. This applies, for example: the environmental tax on plastic bags and paper bags negotiated by the government and adopted together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the 2015 government budget. The reason for this is that the consultation on the proposal revealed that the fee adopted lacks environmental justification. 80 pst. the carrier bags used in Norway are reused and do not constitute a pollution problem, according to State pollution control. The separation of plastic bags made of plastic and paper and other organic material, such as: starch was found not to be feasible. Nor was it possible here to find an environmental justification. Environmental considerations were highlighted by the four batches as the main reason for introducing the March 2015 levy. Thus, there was no real justification and the decision proved to be impracticable in practice. We in the Workers' Party did not go in to introduce an environmental tax on plastic and paper bags and are happy that it has been scraped. We note, however, that the fee decision is now lifted with a sample surface of about 1 billion kroner. kr, accrued and booked for 2015. In order to cover the lost income from the bag tax, the government proposes inter alia: increasing the levy on electricity. The government estimates that households will receive an increased electricity tax of 175 million. kr, service industries will have an increased electricity charge of 100 million. NOK 20 million and general government. kr. The working party believes that it is wrong to charge households and businesses to cover a decision to impose a charge on plastic bags that did not prove feasible in practice. I am really very surprised that the Progress Party also believes that this is wrong. Each year in the opposition, the Progress Party proposed to lower the electricity charge. In government, they go the other way. That's what I assume the voters will notice. The Progress Party says one thing in opposition, but when they have the opportunity to implement their policies, they don't. The working party did not go in to impose an environmental tax on plastic and paper bags. That is why we are opposed to the increase in the electricity charge. We also see that several of the tax changes, such as the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, were agreed in the State budget, and these parties called the'start of the green tax shift in the budget compromise', do not meet the objectives. Several of the tax decisions are now being reversed. For example, the introduction of user charges for natural gas and LPG, according to several organisations, would go beyond the use of biogas in public transport, i.e. the opposite of a green shift. This shows a government in deficit which does not overlook the consequences of its own decisions and which subsequently has to go back on its decisions. It weakens the confidence of the government in the state budget. We have also noticed that the government has had the complete review of the car charges, which was announced in the government statement. We think that's very good. It also had the Stoltenberg government in 2006, and it provided the basis for a policy in the following years and until 2013 that has shown that using taxes to promote an environmentally friendly car park has an impact. We see that the emissions from the transport sector have decreased by over 30 pst. in those years. The policy we followed, which included charges in a more environmentally friendly direction, weighted emissions over power, among others. It has an effect, and this way we'll keep going. We see that the government will do this too, and we're going to support it further. We also see that the government has focused on a technology neutral device, and that they will come back to this in the budget. We look forward to that and are convinced that right there we will be able to agree on a part, as opposed to the rest of the government's government's invasion proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e401	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e404	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e409	The representative of Irene Johansen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e412	First to the representative Irene Johansen: I guess that's to say that the real tax and tax debate is now on Friday. The position we are discussing today on changes in tax, tax and customs legislation shows a high degree of political agreement on most of the amendments proposed by the government, and the Committee endorses the necessary corrections in order to maximise the effectiveness of the decision of the Storting in the 2015 budget in particular. EEA legislation and requirements for ESA notification. The results of the previous Stortingen’s decision on the reform of the malpractice have received considerable public attention since its introduction on 1 January of this year, due to the transition to gross benefits and new tax rules. The transitional mechanism proposed by the Right-wing Party Government in the 2015 budget for grossing-up with large interest-rate deductions is now further reinforced by a change in the limit of compensation in the event of a decrease in income from NOK 6000 to NOK 4000. This means that even more are covered by the scheme and those already covered receive a larger tax deduction. The three-year transitional system provides this group with insufficient time to adapt to a new income situation and make use of the possibilities to combine work and social security for future income hedges. In the context of the debate and decision on a new regime in 2011, the Progress Party was concerned that the government should focus on the possible negative outcome of the comprehensive reform, and it is therefore satisfactory that the Right-wing Party Government should follow this up and make adjustments to ensure a smooth transition to a new social security system. Reforms are difficult – not to propose, but to implement. The Norwegian economy is now characterised by the need for conversion, and successful private sector conversion requires that there is also a willingness and ability to convert into the public sector. Therefore, the government’s proposals for tax management reforms are important contributions to improving resource use, coordinating the activities of public agencies, red tape and improving efficiency. During a transition period, it becomes particularly important for government and growth to take full responsibility for the fact that the organisation of government is not static and tied up in traditional thinking but dynamic and proactive to meet new challenges arising in a constantly changing society. The government has proposed a number of organisational changes to improve tax management with a focus on simplification, non-discrimination, legal certainty and coordinated action against financial crime. By transferring collection tasks from the duty and levy rate to the tax rate, the tax and tax administration is brought together in a single unit and the customs core tasks related to the movement of goods and border control are strengthened. This is part of a major reform aimed at building a good environment of expertise and exploiting existing IT systems in simplification and red tape, for the benefit of users. An important consequence of the changes is simplified charging for importers. The government’s proposal to transfer the tax collection function from municipalities to the tax administration involves a comprehensive and important reform – not only because of efficiency gains, but in order to strengthen the control of employers and the fight against crime at work. Opponents of the reform have pointed out that current tax collection is effective, and there is no need to make changes. The starting point for the reform is not that local authorities are not doing a good job today. The tax collection procedures are ensured by common IT systems and national tax accounts established in the tax haven. 99.7 pst. the advance payments are made by uninvited employers, and the government's proposal for a new organisation is primarily to strengthen the control of employers and to establish a more effective control system to detect financial crime and thereby allow for the extension of the tax base. The many hearing opinions of different bodies confirm the need for changes and support the reform, with the exception of those carrying out the task today. The structural changes proposed concern different levels of administration and have implications for employees and municipalities as employers. The majority of the Committee would like these issues to be examined and seen in the context of other reforms and structuring of the tax rate. That is why the government's proposals are not being adopted at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e433	Thank you to the President-in-Office, who has guided this matter well through the Committee. Let me first make a confession: We have to acknowledge that the decision relating to the plastic bag fee that we agreed on before Christmas is simply not going to be implemented and get the purpose that we had intended when we agreed on it before Christmas. Then I think it's much better to say that's the way it is, and then we don't go on in the shape that it was. Then you can also ask yourself what to do now when the EU comes up with directives on something of the same kind, which will require something from us on this very front later. But we're going to have to do that at the next ratio. I think it is positive that when you see that a decision that was taken is actually not feasible, you take a pause of thought and find another solution. I think that's actually a credit to the Big One. The representative, Limi, was in the process of miscarriage. There is also a reform that has been much discussed in this room in many different settings. In the case of taxes and charges, there is one theme that has been particularly up. It is the fact that many misdemeanors benefit from an extra tax credit on debt interest. This has resulted in some having received more tax than before. It has, in the past, improved the government and the Storing in two stages, according to the reform adopted here in 2011, and now we are doing it once more in the revised budget. In addition, Stortinget also agreed to ask the government to look at how the benefits for those who have the lowest disability benefit have turned out after the reform, and we will come back to that. So I am not going to spend a lot of time on the car charges here, but I just want to say that the agreement that the four parties have reached with regard to car charges is very important for predictability and certainty that choosing environmentally friendly will also pay off for many years to come. I think that's a much more important decision than many are aware of. I am also very happy that we have now solved what was a situation related to obtaining a VAT exemption for the leasing of electric cars and the purchase of electric car batteries. It orders the majority of this option to do so. And we can go another step further in the right environmental direction. It is, as has been mentioned, a major ongoing restructuring in the tax haven and also the customs tariff. We agree with the role that the government has pointed out in terms of customs and taxation, but we ask the government to be aware that there are some interfaces here with regard to the collection of some of the excise duties, which I hope will be resolved, so that users feel better and not the opposite. There's a little greeting in that work. So to the question of the chemist. We'll get back to that. As has been said from several speakers, the rapporteur agrees, among other things, that there should be some consideration of the situation before we may get that matter back. But we are – and I want to say that – still of the opinion that the work done on the Kemner side of the municipalities works very well. Finally, there has been some focus on country-by-country reporting. I would like to remind you that the new majority took a significant step towards an improved regulation on country-by-country reporting half a year ago. I expect, even if we do not vote in favour of the proposal from the minority, that the four parties will sit down and work for improvements also in the current legislation, so that what is our objective, namely that taxes remain in the country where the business is run, can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e452	The government and Siv Jensen have had a major performance project that lies in the legislative proposition that we are now discussing. It's the centralization of tax offices, from the almost 300 local tax offices we now have, around the country, to 33 centralised units. It will be a major loss if it is realised, for local competence, for jobs spread throughout the country. It will also be a loss for tax collection, because local knowledge and an overview of local conditions will be lost, which is essential if you are to have effective and good tax collection and which is essential if you are to have confidence in tax collection. It is also a little surprising that there is such a hurry to implement this reform, when it is seen that the municipalities today carry out the tax collection in a very good and effective way and demand almost up to a hundred percent. They have a very good record of their work. As others have noted, there have been many rounds around the tax collection in the hearing. What's interesting is when you read the comment, which also appears in the post, is that this is a temporary stop. It states that the tax collection function is opposed to transferring it to the municipalities with effect from 1 January 2016. That's what's in the comment, and it's also being said by several speakers. What's a little interesting when you see this case in the context of what's happening on Friday is that the funding for the reform is still there. As for what we are going to do on Friday, it turns out that it costs up to 240 million. NOK, and Stortinget is asked to grant 120 million. to implement a reform that is currently opposed to the majority of population. It's very unusual that you spend money on implementing a reform you're opposed to, so I think it's strange that the Christian People's Party and the Left, once you've got a temporary stop like this, accept that 120 million dollars will be allocated to continue that process. However, in addition to transferring tax offices, many of the tasks that the customs and tax haven has today to charge customs duties and charges to around 200 billion. kr – a very big task that the customs office is doing in a good way. There are also major data challenges and costs, because the customs tariff will continue to be classified, they will operate on border protection, and they will provide information to the Tax Directorate, which will then collect the money. Those computer systems have to talk to each other. It is a little surprising, when we are going to adopt that amendment today, that the figures for the costs of the reform are very uncertain. When we read the revised national budget, the new computer system to be developed by the tax haven is estimated at 710 million. kr. We, who have worked a little on this matter, see from the central management documents that the government has received, that they have deliberately not included costs that are not part of the project. There is a central governance document from the tax administration that the Minister of Finance received in March this year, where it is very clear that the costs of adapting customs systems to deliver declarations to the tax administration in many other circumstances have not been included. If you took that into account, the cost of the project would be well over 750 million. kr, and it would require a completely different quality assurance work in order for the Storting to provide such an authorisation as we are giving today. I have a challenge for the Minister of Finance. First, today we are going to adopt a legislative amendment – on the basis of that document – and then we are going to adopt budgetary appropriations on Friday. Is the Minister of Finance certain that all data costs are visible when there have been such clear signals, including in the central letter to the Minister of Finance, that there is a great deal of uncertainty associated with about 710 million. kr is right? We know that the tax system currently used by local tax offices and the tax rate, SOFIE, had costs in excess of 1 billion. kr. Now we're going to introduce a new system that will also take over many of the tasks that the customs office has. I'm very afraid that the Storting here gives 'go' to a reform that we don't have the full overview of, and that there are major cost challenges and major data challenges. It should have taken the government and the majority of the population time to light up better, before we adopt today the changes in the laws that we are unfortunately doing, against our vote. We will also vote in favour of the proposal for new rules on depreciation of wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e467	In this case, we are essentially cross-political. The most important exception is the proposal to state the questioner; a proposal to the Left has been skeptical for a long time. If we were in doubt before the hearing in the committee, that doubt is now removed even more. Moving such a big task from the municipalities before the municipal reform is perhaps the heaviest argument, since the goal of the left is to strengthen the municipalities at the expense of the state. We also ask questions as to whether the State is really a more effective tax collector than the municipalities, and we ask questions as to whether the State can really run such a service more cost-effectively than the local authorities do today, as the reform has led. As we write in the plural commentary, there are also open questions, as it relates in particular to whether this is to be seen as a business transfer, and to seeing this in conjunction with the ongoing office structure reform in the tax haven. Also from the left side, I would like to stress that the comment is not to be seen as a left-wing order to get the matter back to Stortinget. However, if the government decides to come to Stortinget again, at a later stage, we will of course review the proposal – but that does not mean that we will reach a different conclusion than today. I have a few comments to make on that comment from the minority in the Committee on Country-to-Country Reporting. The left is entirely consistent with the main intention with that comment, but as you know, the Left has concluded a joint budgetary agreement with the Cooperation Party, which also includes that we cannot go into comments/proposals from the other party, unless all four agree – not unlike what was the case for the red-greens in the previous period. Of course, we can regret this, but that's the way it is. Fortunately, this is a matter which the government party is also listed in the intention of the note, cf. the interpellation debate in this hall last Friday. I am therefore confident that we will come back soon with a solution that will take care of both the intention and the goal of this remark. It is not a tradition to make the big tax changes revised – reasonable enough. However, I do have a good chance to announce a clear expectation of a powerful green tax shift in the 2016 budget, the most important simple step we can take to help solve the climate crisis. The changes in car charges that we agreed on today are a very good start. The need for industrial change also implies that the budget must represent the start of a tax reform that ensures value creation and jobs, and a tax reform must also have strong green marks. And just to underline when it comes to green taxes and taxes: it's not only quite possible to implement and even up to the fact that most people get less in tax, it's pretty simple – see. The alternative budget of the Left for 2015, with proposals for green taxes and levies of 13 billion. kr and then up with an average tax bill for the majority of people from NOK 2000 to NOK 3000.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e483	In 2013, the majority endorsed the regulation on country-by-country reporting. The Regulation lays down rules on country-by-country reporting for undertakings in the extractive industry and forestry activities in non-planted forests. The reporting shall include information on payments to governments and other activity-related information and shall contribute to the economic activities of undertakings. The reporting rules introduced a few years ago contributed to greater transparency in the activities of the extractive industries. It is an industry with major global challenges when it comes to transparency and combating corruption and the deterrence of the values of poor countries. The proposers at the time were very concerned that the law could work, that it could be as useful as possible, and that it could create the least possible costs for the companies – although the last consideration is secondary in this context. Since that time it has not happened that much. Norwegian civil society organisations have contributed significant knowledge, which has highlighted both the case and the process. Over the last few years, a number of media projections have revealed large social costs in an inadequate reporting law. The regulation put forward in due course by the Ministry of Finance was an important step towards reducing the social costs of lack of transparency. At the same time, however, it has been pointed out by several actors that the regulations we have today have holes that will prevent effective compliance with the purpose of this legislation, namely to combat illegal capital movements, tax evasion, fraud from the people of poor countries. According to the Publish What You Pay Norway organisation, there are actually only a few small adjustments left before country-by-country reporting can ensure satisfactory reporting. Firstly, all countries included in the financial reporting of upstream results must be included in the regulation. So this applies to all countries that the companies themselves have defined to be within their upstream activities. Section 3 of the Regulation states that the report shall be: «distributed to individual countries in which the enterprise operates in the extractive industries». Uncertainty has been linked to what ‘activities’ actually mean. It opens e.g. doubts as to whether only producer countries or all the countries in the income and cost chain related to the activity are included. Secondly, it must be specifically stated in the legislation that group reporting is in line with the accounting figures for upstream activities. Thirdly, the full accounting context of the country-by-country reporting must be included as a note to the annual accounts rather than a separate reporting. This may sound very technical and boring, but it's important. It has already been done in France, which has already imported EU rules in the field. It also includes country-by-country reporting requirements for banks, and that the information must be provided in notes to the annual accounts, country by country, not consolidated. Since the country-by-country reporting requirement will also apply to banks in Norway in the long term, a level playing field should be created. It's also the cheapest way to report. Publish What You Pay Norway – among others – argues that it is fully possible to produce not very extensive note information. Fourthly, there are some unfortunate exceptions that need to be removed. The regulation today provides for the possibility of circumvention by the fact that a subsidiary may be excluded from the layout. It's very unfortunate in a world where tax havens cause thousands of billions of dollars to be stuck away from ordinary taxation and sharing with the community. Today, we have the opportunity to adopt improved country-by-country reporting legislation. It is not going to be adopted, because – as we have heard from the Left – it is that the cooperation parties have entered into a binding agreement with the government not to go into other comments or proposals. That means we have a week to find a way to promote this again – on Friday – that allows the cooperation parties to vote for. We are in a rather strange parliamentary situation when the government parties vote against each other in ‘hut and rifles’ on matters of pensions, on issues of Syrian refugees, which have considerable budgetary implications, while opposition parties are forced into the ranks of the government. In this case, it is unacceptable. It may defecate as a technicality and a somewhat complicated matter for particularly interested people, but it is Norway's contribution to a world where it is not such that huge values are passed away from those who were to make good on these revenues, at first. I would like to encourage the Left and Christian People's Party to think again and provide a majority for extended country-by-country reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e507	I note that there is a broad consensus in the Storting around the vast majority of matters mentioned in this proposition, and I am pleased about that. At the same time, I note that there is also a significant majority that joins the major reform undertaken by the government to improve tax management. I have also noticed what the majority writes about the tax collection, and we will of course come back to the Stortinget with supplementary information so that we can fully cover up the possible lack of information that the Storinget is asking for. Let me just say briefly that the whole point of this major reform is to look for the necessary simplification possibilities we have in a large tax administration. The aim must always be to make it as simple as possible for traders, for taxpayers, while at the same time meeting the legal security challenges, which I know many are very concerned about. Being able to get the most out of the tax credits that we're spending on, after all, a fairly comprehensive administration, I think, is an important responsibility, and now that we're able to clean up the tasks in a better way, will be good for the business community, for the individual taxpayer, and not least it will enable us to be able to clean up the tasks, not least for the customs department, which is gradually facing significant challenges with an increasingly cross-border crime. So Schlagsvold Vedum asked some questions about what he called the performance project. To the extent that this is a performance project, it has to be on behalf of the taxpayers, but to say that we are in a hurry is not right. This matter has been examined on a number of occasions, and I believe it is well-lit and well presented. I notice, as I said, that there are certain issues the Storting wants more information about, and of course they will. Battle violence Vedum also asked questions about some ICT costs, and in that respect, I have registered that there have been some lookups, especially in the Official Journal of Bergen, which in my opinion are incorrect. All IT adjustments that need to be made have been informed by Stortinget, and they have been granted in the 2015 budget. For example, the cost of this is estimated at 20 million. kr in the customs tariff and not 400 mill. kr, as BT writes. But this is – as the Storting is also briefed on through several documents – extensive reforms, and, of course, if necessary, we will also provide the Storting with new information if it occurs. But at the moment, we have informed the Storting about all the ICT costs that require their allocations, and we have also received that. Let me just end by saying two words about country-by-country reporting. Here, there's really quite a broad consensus on how important this is, and we had a very good debate in the Storting just a few days ago around the width and the whole of these questions. I feel that the Storting in all materially agrees on direction and where we are going. At the same time, we simply have to state that Norway has – probably, at least – the most comprehensive country-by-country reporting requirements in the world. So that doesn't mean that we're going to lean back and let it go, we're going to keep going, and we're always going to be concerned with further improvements. I also signaled that in connection with the treatment here in Stortinget a few days ago, and then it is natural that we follow it up appropriately in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e523	We have previously requested the decision-making basis for the task-movement from the customs office to the tax office, and the employees have done the same. We haven't been able to get that out. We note that there is a great deal of concern in business as they are afraid of increased bureaucracy and less efficient collection and control. We have also recorded that the department is concerned that the reorganisation can remove the focus from what they are going to do, namely control and levy taxes and taxes, with the result of any progeny. My questions to the Minister of Finance are: Can the Minister of Finance guarantee that the task shift will not lead to the state's proceeds? And can the Minister of Finance say something about what the reorganisation is intended to cost, and what are the savings in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e530	It was a very big question to answer in 1 minute, but let me assure the representative Irene Johansen that the whole main purpose of this comprehensive reform is to simplify, for the sake of both business and taxpayers. Then I think it might be a little wrong for the representative Johansen to start from the proceeds of the state. I believe that the whole point of organising good tax and tax management is to facilitate the smoothest possible handling of difficult tax and tax technical issues to traders and taxpayers. That's the whole main point of this reorganization. It's been well lit. The size has received a lot of information about this ongoing and in several documents. We're not done, we're going to keep informing the Storing about individual elements of this big whole. But the point is: a more efficient collection, a better clean-up of tasks. And I think that will serve the taxpayers in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e535	I notice that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, says that there has been no haste, and that it has been very thoroughly investigated. But it's very strange that the tax rate itself in its government management document writes: «The strict deadlines have not been met in all parts of the solutions as thoroughly as the tax haven would normally have done.» It is thus stated in the tax haven's letter to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen: "The tight deadlines have not been met in all parts of the solutions as thoroughly as the tax haven would normally have done." Why does the tax office say that they have such tight deadlines, when the Minister of Finance says that everything has been so thoroughly and well investigated here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e547	I think I should remind the representative of the Battle of Vedum that there have been two public investigations of this issue, and through it there is room for considerable knowledge acquisition. So we know that historically there has not been a reform that has been the basis for implementing it. I know that previous governments have discussed this – probably also the one that the representative of the Battle of Vedum was part of – but I have noticed that through the last consultation that the government held about this, there was broad support for the main features of this reform from industry and from the construction industry, which believes that this might be one of the most important tools we have to combat black work through stronger regional offices, and that those who disagree primarily on this are the ones who own the task today. This does not mean that there is bad craftsmanship in the chemicals, but that it can be done better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e554	The description that I read instead comes from the tax haven of the SAFIR project, which is needed to implement the law decision that we are going to make later today. It's a project that's estimated at 710 million. kr in the proposition. Then the tax bill of the Minister of Finance writes that because of the deadline they have not had time to determine as thoroughly as they tend to do. Why does the Minister of Finance want to push such a project through in the Grand Duchy when the tax rate itself says that it is not sufficiently well established? And does the representative – no Finance Minister Siv Jensen – disagree with the tax rate when they say they haven't had enough time to thoroughly investigate that project?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e563	We can hear if the Council of State disagrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e566	Coming representative – I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e571	I note that the representative, Mr Vedum, combines many different elements in a large and comprehensive reform. This concerns several ongoing ICT projects, which we must in any case implement in order to strengthen the basis for more effective tax collection. I have informed the Stortinget of the necessary allocation needs so far. In the case of SAFIR, there is a new system which deals with the task transfer from the customs tariff to the tax rate and the fact that the excise duty system is now to be developed in the tax rate instead of the customs duty rate. We believe there are considerable synergies to be drawn from this, and I think the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum can rest assured that we are constantly informing the Storting about the needs that exist for upgrading.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e579	The external quality assurance rules for the implementation of a large project by the State are 750 million. kr. This project is estimated at 710 million. kr, and the central governance document states that they have very tight deadlines and are therefore insecure. The Minister of Finance can read that for himself. It is also stated in the central governance document that the cost of the customs tariff challenges has not been included in the estimate of 710 million. kr. Is the Minister of Finance certain that the cost will be 710 million? kr and that they do not exceed 750 million. kr, which would have meant that we had to have a completely different process? The amazing thing here is that the Minister of Finance has let the tax rate itself, instead of an external actor, come with quality assurance, which would be common in such a large data project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e586	I believe that the work on these reforms is well on track and that progress is good. But I still think that I should offer to send the representative Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum a broad, written briefing on all the individual elements of this, so that he can use the summer to get good answers to many of the questions he has. I think it's absolutely legitimate to be concerned that these things are going well. I think it's an honest commitment, and that's why I'd like to be able to supplement it in writing to the representative of Battle Violence Vedum, so that he can get an insight into all the details of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e593	And then we want the representative Schlagsvold Vedum to have good summer entertainment! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e596	If you ask the parties on the Stortinget, there is a real majority for so-called extended country-by-country reporting. Both the Central Party, SV, the Workers' Party, the Green Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are for that. Nevertheless, it is not adopted today, and that is because the Christian People's Party and the Left, understandably enough, will honor an agreement they have made with the government parties not to form a majority for proposals beyond what appears in the revised. But then it would have been interesting to know, since it's something special that the Big City's real will is not reflected in a decision, why it's so that the government parties cannot join the decision on extended country-by-country reporting. What kind of assessment has the Minister of Finance and the Government made, which means that the government and the government parties do not end up with such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e601	I have not made any new assessments of it after the very complementary debate we had on this issue in Stortinget a few days ago. I think it was a good discussion, which showed that there was a broad political commitment to having good rules and procedures around these issues. We are all concerned that we should have a well-functioning country-by-country reporting legislation. We are all committed to actively contributing in international arenas to better international regulation, which is, after all, the main problem, especially for many countries that experience tax evasions that they could otherwise use for important welfare tasks. It was an essential part of the debate we had last week, and I was very clear that it is important now to evaluate the experience we have made as a basis for possible further enlargements. So I don't think you should try to make this a game between the four collaboration parties. I believe that the commitment is real and across all parties, and that in the future we will extend this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e606	Hans Olav Syversen shows in his speech that it was the new majority that took significant steps to improve country-by-country reporting, and with that I suppose he believes that we went from having a regulation to combat corruption alone, but also preventing unwanted tax adjustment. Then we hear here in the debate Siv Jensen points out that it is believed that this is possible today. Snorre Serigstad Valen describes it in a good way in his article. Then I cannot help but understand that the Christian People's Party's decision with the whole of the Stortinget, namely that the regulation should prevent unwanted tax adjustment, is not fulfilled in what the government has presented. Do the councils agree? Why is it so difficult in this case to allow Stortinget to ask again that that will be fulfilled here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e611	Let me first say that I believe that all the parties in this big business and changing governments have had a strong commitment around these questions. I think that's a good starting point, because with the inter-political commitment that's around these questions, we can find good solutions to more questions. This is not just about country-by-country reporting; it is probably so much about good international agreements, which we will be totally dependent on to deal with the debate on tax havens to help reduce tax evasion in many countries in the world, and it is of course about how to have good regulation in a situation where capital flows freely. I believe that the commitment that underlies this is the best we can have to constantly update and further develop the legislation. I have signaled several times that it is my intention to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e616	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e621	I continue on the case of country-by-country reporting. As many have been involved, the Storting recently discussed this in the context of an interpellation on the theme. It turned out that 6600 billion. dollar disappears through illegal capital flight every year. We also looked at the pressure of a few days after a new report from Redd Barna, which revealed that Africa alone had lost tax revenues equivalent to 1.8 million health workers, and that Redd Barna estimates that the tax avoided in these 75 countries with the highest child and maternal mortality could have ensured satisfactory health care. I think that's in this picture we need to understand why a lot of the humanitarian organizations are so committed to this issue. We are discussing today a proposal that does not cover all the questions that the Council of State, Siv Jensen, raised now. It is enough that in many areas it is about international cooperation, it is about good agreements – but it is also about what we as a country and nation can do alone. Today, the regulation deals with companies in the extractive industries. It has been a wish from the whole of the Storting that we should prevent the undesirable tax adaptation of these companies. Today, when it is not possible to follow the capital flows into tax havens, and we have also seen claims that the first country-by-country reporting provided by Statoil does not follow the purpose of today's regulation, there is every reason to reconsider this. State Council Siv Jensen says it is a good regulation today. Well, the Church's Emergency Aid, Publish What You Pay, Tax Justice Network, Redd Barna -- all the organizations that are involved in this -- probably don't take it wrong. It is strange that the Left and Christian People's Party, with a good conscience here today, can only show that they have an agreement with the Government, when in my reply to the Government Council, I tried to explain that it is the Government, the Ministry of Finance, which has not fulfilled the agreement of the Christian People's Party and the Left with the Government, because it is now possible to make tax adjustments within the framework of this regulation. I cannot, with my best will, understand how the Christian People's Party and the Left can accept that it is a fulfillment of the agreement. I can only see that they are then also free to remind the Minister of Finance and the Government of the will of the Storting – and vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the Socialist Left Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e636	The responsibility for tax collection is now divided between the tax administration, which has the professional responsibility, and the municipalities, which have the administrative responsibility. The reason for the proposal to transfer the municipal tax collection to the tax bill is to get a better and more efficient tax administration. Such coordination will lead to simplification for taxpayers and businesses, and one will achieve a more holistic and effective task-solving. The most important argument, in my opinion, is that this will lead to a strengthening of the fight against black labour and the black economy. There is too little priority today, and bringing together the tasks and responsibilities of a single establishment will strengthen and coordinate the control of employers. There are 288 municipal tax collectors' offices today, and many of these offices have very small and vulnerable trade unions. Tax collection is not a natural municipal task where local political conditions have an impact, but a regulatory task that is to a small extent influenced by understanding. It should not be such that there is a large difference between municipalities when it comes to tax collection. Therefore, taxpayers will be given greater legal certainty and more equal treatment in this proposal. So we register, through the listening round, that the resistance to the proposal has been great from the municipalities; there are only 25 municipalities that support the proposal. On the other hand, the vast majority of the colleges have given positive hearing opinions. On 19 May, the Financial Committee held a hearing on the revised State budget, and in that context, the Municipality of KS Oslo argued and set an example of the continued task of tax collection in the municipalities. The Financial Agency in the Municipality of Oslo pointed out and spoke warmly about the importance of the competent and multidisciplinary professional environment. My reflection in that context was that this was a very good contribution to transferring the tax collection from the municipality to the tax administration. I mean the municipality of Oslo is not representative of the 288 chemical offices, but that they with their many years of work and their strong professional environment, etc. can operate an active control business against the black economy. We see that the proposal to regulate the tax collection function from 1 January 2016 does not have multiples in the committee, but I am pleased with the comment from the majority in the committee, which sees that there are issues related to business transfer and adding their rights that need to be elaborated more closely, and that it would be natural for such a major change to be seen in conjunction with others. other reforms in progress and the division of tasks between State and municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e653	A strange situation, the representative called Serigstad Valen the fact that the cooperation agreement means that the Left and Christian People's Party as a cooperative party must vote against matters in which we agree. Well, it's no more strange than that the Serigstad Valen and his party systematically did the same thing for eight years with red-green cooperation, and as I said in my main post: Here it's convenient that we can quickly come back with a solution everyone can stand behind. Serigstad Valen also found it strange that the Left and Christian People's Party are more loyal to the cooperation agreement than one of the government party itself is, as he expressed it. Without commenting on the last in detail, this shows that the Left and Christian People's Party also assumes responsibility in practical action for giving the country a government and a manageable plurality on the Stortinget, which the country enjoys – with at least possible political games and narrow party strategic considerations. Then the government party that Serigstad Valen may be aiming at, even if they recognize themselves in the description or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e661	As regards the minority proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV on changes to the country-by-country reporting regulation, it is not supported by the majority. The reason why the Progress Party cannot support it is that the current legislation, introduced by the Right-wing Party Government, has not been given sufficient time to work. It is not good administrative practice to change rules until they have had time to work and before they have a basis for evaluating their effectiveness. For private enterprises affected by the legislation, predictability is important; it is important that any changes are notified in good time and that the consequences and costs are fully elucidated. I perceive the representative Serigstad Valen there in his posts that the last one is almost subordinate, and we disagree on that. That being said, it is important to stress that the Progress Party is a member of openness and transparency, and I believe the debate and the Stortinge decision on ownership registers just showed that there is a broad consensus that this is important, because it contributes to the efficient pricing of companies and capital, and because it contributes to sustainable capitalism and a well-functioning market economy that does not exploit poor countries. If that's the goal, the representative Valen and I are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e668	It was a wonderful answer I got from Finance Minister Siv Jensen instead. I'm going to have a good summer, but the question is whether those who adopt a reform they haven't thoroughly investigated get a good summer. Here the government is asking us in Stortingen to grant 710 million. kr on Friday. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen is not able to answer today if it is well established. And she can't answer whether she agrees or disagrees with the tax rate, which says that due to time pressure they haven't been able to carry out such a good investigation as they tend to do according to the tax rate's own standards. It was informed to the Ministry of Finance in March, in good time before the Stortinget got this proposition for treatment. Why is there nothing in the proposition that the tax rate itself thinks they have been put under such a heavy time pressure that they are uncertain about their own estimates? Why is it left out? That's a pretty important information for Stortinget when we're going to allocate almost 750 million. kr, to know that the tax rate itself is uncertain about the project. Why is there nothing in the proposition either that the cost of transfer to customs, in the case of mapping, the total package, is essentially not part of the cost estimate of 710 million. kr, as they deliberately write in their newsletter that they have taken out because they do not have an overview? Then we know that when we're at 710 million. kr, we are right at the border to have an external quality assurance. This project is quality guaranteed by the tax liability itself. Why is it urgent when they say that it is urgent? Why not have an external quality assurance when there is such a large amount of money? Then it must be a performance project and nothing else. And then it's not useful to get a letter for the summer, we need a letter before Friday, because the Stortinge will give a permit of nearly 1 billion. kr. In addition, we are asked to give 120 million. kr to transfer municipal tax offices to the state, when, in today's bulk, we show that there is no majority for that. Why don't you give me 120 million? For a reform for which it is not a majority? We know from the past that in that type of data project from tax revenue and customs, it quickly becomes billions of dollars. So here should be a pull in the emergency brake, and if one is unable to make a proper, proper letter before Friday, the Storting should not grant nearly one billion. NOK to a project that we do not know the end of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e677	A few comments on what has arisen in the debate. As far as country-by-country reporting is concerned, I am quite sure that those who promote this in the revision know which agreements apply between the four parties. If it was a wish to get it through in a revised or a different context, the proposal would have been put forward so that it was also possible to get a majority for it. But we're taking the signal seriously. When it is said that what does not work does not work because you have not followed up the decision of the Storting, I intend to follow it up and come back to make sure that the tax adjustment we wanted to focus on when the regulation was adopted is actually followed up. With regard to the appropriations for SAFIR, there are no additional appropriations in the revised budget, but there is a cost estimate. I have also noticed that the quality assurance was made by the Tax Directorate. Based on the experience we have in other departments related to ICT projects, I would at least say that up to the budget for next year we are very concerned that the necessary quality assurance takes place, so this is a project that is well controlled. Finally, as far as the chemist is concerned, it is quite clear that although the decision to grant is there, it is at present. no majority for transfer. For me, it means that it is also irrelevant that money is being spent on something like this. is not a majority in favour. That's a clear assumption. Then I want to have a problem with something else about the chemist – since the hearing was mentioned – that the enforcement was weaker from the chemist's side than from the state side. It often has a very good reason: for municipalities, it helps very little if the tax collector is forced to collect a small amount of tax, for example. linked to a dwelling, the day after which it is in the municipal household queue and must have a dwelling that will be far more expensive for the municipality in question. So I don't buy all of these arguments until you go into it carefully and see what's actually behind it. In many municipalities, there has been a significant point that the chemist should not be in the first place in the case of forced collection, for example. in the case of housing, because you know so well that you get that bill in another tenfold way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e690	We have a spring behind us where representatives from one government party openly state that they feel stabbed in the back of the second government party, and where the two government parties have separated layers of voting here in the Stortinget in two things that have slightly budgetary implications. One is social security and the purchasing power of pensioners, the other is the question of receiving more refugees from Syria. I respect that, but it gets improperly strange when the representative Breivik from the Left insists that cooperation between the government and the supporting parties does not bear the mark of games, right when we have this spring behind us. For all of us who stand outside and watch, it's quite obvious that there's a game of this collaboration that bears the mark of. The central difference between Left and SV, which makes Breivik's articles so strange, is that Left is an opposition party. Unlike SV in the previous period, the Left does not sit in the government. The left has a party leader who has previously stated that they should vote for what they are for and against what they are against. There must have been a reason why the Left chose not to go into government with the Right Party and the Advance Party, and I would think that the reason was that they would be in and form a majority for what there is a majority for on the Biggest. It is mildly alarming that the opposition can be placed on the line of a minority government when the own representatives of the government parties do not agree on matters with budgetary implications here in the Stortinget. Both the Minister of Finance and the representative of Limi have today expressed a very positive opinion on the objective of stronger country-by-country reporting and the purpose behind such legislation. Then it becomes even more strange for me, and I would also believe for the Workers' Party and the Centre, that it is not possible to adopt this today. Our invitation to cooperation to get this done is completely sincere. When the representative Syversen says that we should have put our proposal in a way that made it possible to get a majority in favour of it, we take it seriously. We have four days to formulate a proposal together that we can promote as a loose proposal in the Chamber on Friday. Both we, the Labour Party and the Central Party are happy to engage in discussions with the Christian People's Party and the Left in order to find a way to formulate such a proposal that makes it possible to form a majority on the Grand Council for what it is actually a majority for, without violating the budgetary agreement of the Left and the Christian People's Party having done with the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e699	I can only confirm what Serigstad Valen now says, that this proposal has not been put in place to make life difficult for the Christian People's Party and the Left, but to achieve real change in the world. I can read the proposal: ‘The government is asked to amend the country-by-country reporting regulation that can make unsolicited tax adjustment visible, including proposals for extended country-by-country reporting that ensure a stronger link between country-by-country reporting and annual accounts.’ This is not a very extreme suggestion, which in some way seeks to exclude the Left Party or the Christian People's Party. It is quite in the letter after the several speakers from the Christian People's Party and the Left have been up on this pulpit and requested. I can only join in what the representative Serigstad Valen says – we would like to discuss how we can make a proposal on Friday that we can all agree on, so that we can confirm the Stortinge's willingness to introduce a regulation of this type, which makes it impossible to make unwanted tax adjustment, as the proposal is today. I'm very pleased that Hans Olav Syversen says he takes this seriously. I would also like to make a brief comment on what Limi is dealing with, because I understand that things have to be evaluated. I understand that information needs to be collected. But it is also the case that we have had one country-by-country reporting, from Statoil, here in Norway. There are claims that Statoil mixes upstream and downstream. I also picked that up in the interpellation here. I have asked the Minister of Finance questions about that matter. She says that it is the Financial Supervisory Authority that will look at it, the Financial Supervisory Authority can choose or not choose to look at it, and they will, after all, take samples in these kinds of cases. Now there's only one company that has delivered a report, so it's not that much to stick in. In any case, for me, it does not signal any willingness to deal with matters. It should be desirable to ensure that the very first country-by-country reporting we have here in Norway follows what is today's intention from the Stortinget. This must be expected if you are to have credibility in improving country-by-country reporting. We look forward to further dialogue with the other parties and we really hope it is possible to find a proposal that we can all – the Right and the Advance Party too – stand together on Friday when the matter is to be re-examined in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e715	I just want to say that in the country-by-country discussion, I perceive that we may not be as dissenting as you would like to make it. From our point of view, it is at least clear that we want maximum transparency on this issue as well. And I refer you to the discussion we had here about shareholder registers in our country and what has been said about country-by-country reporting. I still have the belief that maximum openness here gives the best opportunity for a dynamic capitalist world, and I am for that. With regard to this very proposal that it would be so very wise to include this as an auditated note in the annual accounts, I can without fail conclude that at least one professional group would think it was a very good proposal. Otherwise, I would like to link a few comments to the Kemner discussion. I must say I am disappointed that this reform did not come about. I have said this before that the undersigned has previously been chairman of the municipal tax committee in Bergen for eight years. Those tax samples were supposed to be available to obtain the local entry and the local assessment. With all due respect, I have to say that the work in that sample was quite meaningless – not because it was not proper people and proper proceedings, on the contrary, it was just that we were bound by a very rigid code. There was no room for an individual assessment of this. Anyone who has been away in practical life in these chemistry offices knows that they're rule-driven, and that there's no local policy being pursued there. That's why I don't think that moment is very strong. Then I would like to say in conclusion that one of the tasks that the Kemerkontoret should also do is to check the employer. Then I have to say that there is a national target set that at least 5 pst. by employers in each country shall be checked annually. In my and the representative of Breivik's home country, 14 out of 33 municipalities have implemented this, and that is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e726	I notice that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, does not choose to take the floor after such clear challenges as to ask for an authorization to grant and to continue a project and a mandate to do so with a cost framework of 710 million. kr. Minister of Finance Jensen said in his reply to my reply that she would come up with a letter stating that this was thoroughly enough, that it had been done according to normal procedures, and that it had had enough time for the summer. My challenge again to Minister of Finance Jensen is: Can Stortinget get it before Friday, when we are going to give it the mandate and continue a project that is estimated at 710 million. kr, which the tax haven itself has said has not been thoroughly sufficiently determined according to the standards they tend to have and which they themselves have evaluated? Can Minister of Finance Siv Jensen inform Stortinget and cancel what the tax rate says, and say that this is thoroughly enough evaluated, and that there is no basis for us to have an external quality assurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e747	I have an observation. At the first reading, the adopted proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left should have been promoted in the form of law. The submitted statutory statement will correct this. I take up this proposal on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under I, the following provision is assumed to be amended as follows: point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 8 shall be replaced by the following: (b) a hydropower plant that had started after 1 January 2004, or’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e765	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e781	On an incubation, the vote we had last week on this matter did not come up with the will of Storting. It is therefore on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that I make the following proposals: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under I, the following provisions are assumed to be amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 15-5 is replaced by the following: Social benefits may be granted to a single mother or father who has children under eight years of age. For a member who is prevented from working because of care for children requiring special supervision, transitional aid may be granted until the child reaches the age of 18. Exemptions from the age limit in the first sentence may be made for extensions under the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 15-8, the fourth paragraph and the fifth subparagraph.’ When we vote on this, several parties will vote in favour of something that you really are against, but you do it to make this voting practical, simple and straightforward, and to ensure that the will of the Storting comes out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e799	The representative then promoted the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e820	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group. The President will also propose that up to six lines of reply are given after a member of the Government has made contributions within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e825	In the last few months there has been an exciting and robust process in the nutrition committee. This has been the job of ensuring a broad political majority for the framework conditions of the aquaculture industry. The Committee has been set up on the objectives: the industry will have predictable framework conditions and the environment will set its premises. The farming industry is a very important industry for Norway. Many point to it as one of the industries that will take over after the oil. The Economic and Social Committee wishes to establish long-standing policies, a policy which is pursued independently of the parties in the government offices. This is done only through broad political conciliation. The result is also something as rare as an overall nutrition committee. I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee very much. They have shown willingness to cooperate and the ability to find good solutions, and they have had a constructive approach to work. I'm fascinated by success stories – stories about someone thinking new, that you've had the courage to bet, people who've served both the country, the community and themselves. I'm impressed by those who have the ability to see new solutions and create new jobs in new industries. It's the story behind one of Norway's biggest adventures, the history of the aquaculture industry. Yes, we have natural assumptions that are unique in the world. The Gulf Stream gives us perfect flows and water temperatures to operate in aquaculture. The aquaculture industry was before a reintroduction for some particularly interested parties. Today it is a multi-billionaire company that exports values for over 45 billion. kr every one year. This shifts the aquaculture industry completely to the front with oil and gas and maritime industry. The marine industry is a very important export industry for Norway. In addition, aquaculture is very important to our coastal communities. All along the coast there are farming facilities that create both jobs and income for municipalities. There is room for enormous growth in the aquaculture industry. Probably we can double the output by 2050. But growth must be sustainable. Environmental challenges have been and are still major. Escape means that the farmed salmon threatens the wild axis of the rivers. Many cases of salmontus both damage the fish in the farms and kill the wild fish. In addition, emissions from installations, which are currently not a major problem, can become a problem if production is to be fivefold. The Committee is quite clear on the following: the environment should premise the farming industry, not vice versa. That's why we're in favour of a zero vision both in terms of escape, and in terms of resistance to salmonnus. A strategy on escape and an action plan on resistance to salmonids shall be developed. There is no doubt that the farming industry has an environmental impact. The environmental impact of each installation is zero. The overall environmental impact in the new production areas is weak, but no longer questions whether the farming industry has an environmental impact. That environmental image has to be limited. Therefore, the Committee considers it irresponsible to facilitate a new growth regime now. First, we have to have good enough models to establish the responsibility of farms for mortality on wild fish. It is important from a sustainability perspective. Therefore, the Committee asks for more knowledge about the impact of the farming industry on wild fish. We want to make sure that it's the environment that's making the premise. Then the models have to be safer than today. So far, we are proposing that the world's most stringent environmental legislation should continue. The government must be able to produce growth, but according to very strict criteria, in particular as regards the environmental impact of the industry. The position we are discussing now also takes care of small and medium-sized players. The government wanted the price to be paid for growth by the actors to be auctioned between the actors. The problem with this was that small players might not have as much capital as large, and that actors who spent a lot of capital and resources fighting lice and escape did not have as much capital left to win auctions. With the auctioning principle, it could be risked that it was only the few large ones or those who had not cared so much about lice control and escape, who eventually got the growth. There would have been an unwise regime when we try to get rid of the problems of lice and escape and also want more small and medium-sized players to remain in the industry. The Committee has therefore proposed a new concession pricing regime. New concessions determine the price through a combination of auction and fixed prices, while the fixed price principle is applied to growth on existing concessions. The municipalities will also benefit from the work of the Business Committee. In the past, the municipalities have received 40 pst. of the price of new concessions and 50 pst. of the price of growth. The rest has gone to the state. The Business Committee has now proposed that municipalities and county municipalities receive 80 pst. of both allocations. This will mean that municipalities and county councils with breeding activities will receive about 400 million. kr more every two years if two out of five farms qualify for growth. You have to qualify for growth, and that's the lusa that decides. The Committee also proposes that municipalities which have been raised today receive funds from the Marine Breeding Fund. For me, it is important once again to stress that in the setting we now have for treatment, we state that it is the environment that should be a premiscuous supplier. That is why I was surprised at the response of two of the parties at Stortinget who themselves believe they are the best on the environment. The Greens reacted to the fact that we were slowing down the government's growth plans. The Greens thought the time was overripe for growth. Obviously, it was not so important for the professional community to first develop good models for the environmental impact of the industry. The professional environment is uncertain about the proposed model. It was made clear through the hearings. They disagree if it's good enough. Therefore, the Trade Committee believes that it is a good idea to wait with a new growth regime. The models to measure the environmental impact must first be good enough. But obviously the Greens believed that the trade unions here are wrong. They thought it was possible to adopt 6 pst. growth every two years already now. I have to say it surprises me, since a few months ago we discussed a proposal from the Greens where they proposed halting the growth of the farming industry. The SV bombed as much in its criticism as we had our press conference. The main criticism came from the representative Knag Fylkesnes. According to him, the committee opposed the government's wish to introduce salmonmus as an indicator. He said the following to IntraFish: "It's amazing. Everyone has asked for sustainability indicators. Then you end up with one sustainability indicator -- salmonnus -- and then even it gets sent back. There is quite a lot of research into this.’ This is simply an error. In the vote, a joint committee shall state the following: ‘The Committee supports the initial lice level as an environmental indicator for growth.’ Furthermore, the Committee asks that emissions should also be identified as an environmental indicator, and all, except for the Progress Party, ask for indicators on waste and disease to be investigated. It's not just salmon-puss that's going to be an indicator. Disappearance, disease and emissions shall also be identified as indicators. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party has been that we can be sure that future growth in industry is sustainable. The environmental impact must be minimised. I believe that the government has been given good tools in further efforts to facilitate a good growth regime – a growth regime that sets the environment and biodiversity as a premiscible supplier. With these frameworks, the farming industry can have a fairytale future in our country. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e865	First of all, thank you for a good and descriptive article. Most of us have a relationship with the coast and the sea. For the Workers' Party, it is important to use the opportunities provided by the sea for the creation of treasures. It is a strength that there is a broad political plurality that supports the idea of future sustainable growth and that the visions of the sustainability strategy are firm. The working party wants to grow before farming, and the growth must be environmentally sustainable. Villax, sea urchins and aquaculture shall live in coexistence. It is fully possible to achieve the viability of the marine growth environment and the Working Party is satisfied that a Joint Committee points out a direction for the development of the aquaculture industry. And I'm especially pleased that a Joint Nutrition Committee decides that the vision of the Stoltenberg Government on a sustainability strategy for the industry is solid. The Committee also points to the underlying precautionary principle. Natural disasters state that an impact on an ecosystem should be assessed by the cumulative burden on the ecosystem. So division into production area is a good tool. Before production area can be established, more knowledge must be acquired. There is no historical archive showing natural variations of salmonids on wild fish in different areas. In order to ensure that the model of counting lice on wild fish is representative, this knowledge must be in place and this work must start immediately. It must be said that there have been differences in views and in our dissatisfaction both in the industry and in the professional community about the design of the model and the rules of action for growth in the aquaculture industry. There is so much doubt about the Marine Research Institute, HI, its model of mortality in wild fish with the background of the lice level in the farms is clear and accurate enough, as the case-speaker did well. HE says that the model is only 70 pst. Sure. Both the production area and the counting of lice on wild axes have been discussed. The working party is particularly pleased that, before the introduction of a new growth model, knowledge banks should be set up, that more professional environments should be included, and that this should be done in close dialogue with the industry itself. The government is proposing a rule of action with an environment indicator, which is initially linked to loopholes. That in the first place it's just lice that are an environmental indicator, we think in the Labour Party is right. Escape cannot be included as an indicator in the production area model and a job of getting the emission indicator in place. The fact that there is lice is an indicator has triggered discussions about how to count, what methods to use, and not least whether to count as today, in mares or on wild fish. There is a need to separate more knowledge associated with the impacts of aquaculture on wild fish populations and the impact of individual plants on wild fish. More knowledge of how the lice level of the wild species is affected by natural variations such as snow melting, temperature, watering, etc. must be in place. At present, there is no register showing the natural variations in the luxuries that the wild axis has through seasonal and annual variations in each river. Collecting and storing such data over time will provide a register of facts-based information on the natural loop level. One will also get factual information here and can compare where it is breeding, and where it is not breeding. Another point that has been raised in the debate is that the number of fish surveyed must be considerably higher than today, and all areas must be examined. The methods used today are also controversial, for example: to catch the salmon in the cage, let him stand there and then count the lice on. This will not give a representative image of your loophole, which will search for a stationary salmon, which it will not do in its wild state. I would therefore like to stress that the methods to be used in the future have to give representative results, and here one has to work with the industry to find good representative methods. Methods must also be recognised by the industry itself, so that a free discussion of facts collection is representative. More professional environments are also required to find the best possible models. HI is both manager and researcher, and, as I said, they themselves say that they're only 70 pst. secure on its own model. We cannot both say that this is Norway's future industry. 1, then select a model that is more uncertain than the weather forecast. Therefore, it is good that all parties in the nutrition committee, with the exception of the Right, have taken on board the fact that it is too premature to establish the proposed model as the final model for the adjustment of production in the aquaculture industry. The Labour Party has been aware that the Danish Food Safety Authority has sufficient resources for them to exercise more supervision, adjust production and follow-up on non-operational orders. It is good that a Joint Nutrition Committee points this out; then there is hope that it will also show that in budgetary terms. Researchers have pointed out that it is possible to double the value of marine industries by 2050, and that aquaculture will account for most of this growth. The working party of my nutrition committee has found a good balance between growth and productivity in its work on the adjustment. The main challenge today for the aquaculture industry is lice and escape. When it comes to escape, we're in the same model that the government has created for defrosting, but it's a demand from a joint committee that this isn't enough. We want a strategy for escape based on a zero vision. Resistance to lice has gradually been a challenge. It is important, therefore, to point out that excessive lice requirements lead to more leaching, which in turn may lead to a greater risk of resistance. It is therefore important to use non-medical methods. The action plan for resistance is also a requirement of a single committee. In the case of different methods of action against lice, there is a lot of exciting research, such as snorkeling and lice, including in the case of closed plants, the use of different varieties of lip fish and luselases. Here a come very far, and I just have to admit that the method of burnt lime is also incredibly exciting. I'm sure the lice problem will be solved by the industry itself, but that you need a little more time before you are in the finish line. Sustainable feed and access to feed resources may determine the development potential and structure of a global aquaculture. The shortage of marine feed for farmed fish results in the introduction of new raw materials. Better use of residue from both red and white fish must be focussed. But I also want to point out interference with other things, like, for example. forest waste, etc. Marine farming is one of our most important industries, contributing to the creation of value added and jobs along the coast. The Labour Party believes it is important to have a lack of actors in the industry, and that both small and large are able to grow and establish themselves. It is therefore good that the growth of the maximum authorised biomass, MTB, is priced firmly and that a single committee highlights the importance of having small, medium-sized and large industries. The working party is concerned that the supplier industry can take part in technological developments both at sea and at land, and it is important that the industry itself chooses the technology solutions. If we get there that we're politicians who have to choose technology, we're going crazy. It is the industry itself that must choose, and then the conditions must be equal and not distort competition for one technology or another. I would like to point out the area charges, which have been mentioned a lot. The intention of an area charge is that the host municipalities should receive income from the municipality for the purpose of facilitating farming. With the model that is now leading, there is an assumption that there will be growth, so that it will be a few dollars to distribute to the host municipalities. It must be said from the Labour Party's side that this was not our desired primary model. He had given annual, conservative incomes and not 100 pst. depending on growth. Nor was it about increasing the level of fees beyond the current level in our primary model. But I would like to point out that the Maritime Fund must now be established quickly, so that the revenue from new concessions that have not yet been paid should be allocated to this fund as a starting pot. It is good that the injustice that caused new municipalities to have received millions in one-off payments, and that those who had arranged for growth over the year got zero. The Marine Farm Fund being created distributes the income. And I want to point out that of the 80 pst. the partner must go to the host municipalities. Finally, I would like to say that I am amazed at the total lack of the government's ability and willingness to allow the Stortingeten to manage the growth of aquaculture without pre-empting measures in this area. On 12 June, we could read that the Minister of Fisheries will be speeding up the development of green farming technology – this in the middle of managing the message of growth in aquaculture. This is at best an accident at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e911	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a very good job. Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation. It's been a very interesting process to be part of. Over the past four decades, the marine industry has positioned itself as a significant part of the Norwegian overall maritime food cluster. Salmon and trout stand for 60 pst today. of the export value of all the fish we export. So it's a great industry, and it's been said to dance in line with oil and gas. At least it's yours, it's my opinion. We are getting more and more examples that the Norwegian supplier industry also delivers innovation when the aquaculture industry faces new challenges. So we're talking about a complete seafood cluster when we talk about Norwegian seafood. The snapshot is very good, but it should not be put under the chair that there are challenges. As production grows, the total burden on the environment is also growing, and in this debate there are voices that believe that this burden is growing proportionally with the growth of the industry, while others believe that we do not have enough knowledge of what is happening. Here we are at the heart of the message's main content: knowledge. How to secure knowledge, so that we know what footprint the industry is setting? What do these footprints mean, and how do we limit the possible negative sides of the footprints we get by increasing the output to such a big industry? The Communication aims at predictable and environmentally sustainable growth for aquaculture. That is, we have to manage the knowledge we have about how the industry affects the environment. The model of production areas is a good tool. We can initially imagine that we're going to have one rule along the whole coast, but we know that we have a long coast, and we know that Norway is the seashore. The environment is different depending on where we are on the coast – within the coast, out of the coast or in the fjords. By establishing production areas, you get an administration that is more tailored to the different areas than what we have today. And it's by acquiring and managing the knowledge we have about this and regulating the industry in line with existing laws and relevant knowledge, we create the good framework. How to create good growth indicators in a longer-term perspective? The notification addresses several possible indicators. It has been mentioned escape, disease, lice and emissions, but it is important to point out that it has been chosen to ignore escape, disease and emissions as sustainability indicators. That's because you can't draw any direct line between the relationship between the escapes we have and the growth and volume of the industry. Therefore, lice has been chosen as a sustainability indicator. How does the salmonius affect the wild axis? How does aquaculture activity affect the wild axis, including the wild axis of rivers? Norway’s rivers, coasts and sea areas are important for the wild. Our activity affects the wild axis, and that's why we have to take that into account. We have, through international conventions and the Norwegian Nature Diversity Act, ordered us to take account of the wilderness axis. There is also a Norwegian standard of error that says something about what kind of boundaries you want to set for activity. What are the limits? How do we affect the wild race, and how do we affect the mortality of our wild races? In today’s debate, it may almost seem that only the aquaculture industry is going to deal with the Norwegian wild game standard. I have to shoot in that it's actually not like that. The Villaks norm is set there in order for all activity to have to take account of the wild axis – it is up to us to expand the power industry, to have a travel site, how much we fish from the wild axis, and how agriculture affects our wild breeds in the rivers. All this activity — and aquaculture — is to use that norm when looking at its activity and regulating its activity in relation to it. The aim of the communication is to create predictable and sustainable growth, and then it is an objective that we should get the industry to invest even more resources in research and development. Predictable growth provides a better framework for market work, budgeting and operation. It also provides predictability in terms of initial investment, innovation and the use of new technologies. That's why the Marine Fund, as we've drawn up another sketch, is a very good tool. The industry has been through a number of allocation rounds in the past which have the common feature that no one resembles each other. When we asked the government to deliver on objective award criteria, we are satisfied with what has been presented now. It also allows industry to relate to growth and future planning in a completely different way. This message is in this way a very good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e939	Let me thank the case rapporteur for a very good report, and not least for leading this matter in an excellent way in the committee. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the others in the Committee for having been involved and helped to arrive at a very good solution for both the examination of the notification and the preparation of the industry. We in the Progress Party had one starting point when we started dealing with this matter, and it was that we should get the widest possible anchoring in Stortinget. That's what we got. It ensures the long-term and predictability of the industry, and we are very pleased about that. As indicated in the setting, there is a great deal of consensus. It is the SV and the Green Party that are outside. I think the experience we've had in the committee is that we've increased the level of knowledge considerably. Perhaps that is why the SV and the Greens are criticising the Greens. As stated in the Committee's position, this is an important industry. The marine food industry produces SEK 1.25 million. tonnes of edible fish to a first-time value of more than 40 billion. kr. It makes up 14 million meals of salmon every day. It is clear that there is a very important industry for Norway, but not least it is a crucial industry in the international field of food production as well. You do that in an energy-efficient way. You're doing it in a feedable and superficially good way. It is therefore an efficient and climate-friendly food production that Norway contributes greatly to. That's a good starting point. A section on production areas has been mentioned. I will not repeat it, but for the Progress Party, it has been important to get more research and knowledge into any future new model. It's been interesting to look at the different scientific environments, which have a slightly different approach, and then it's natural to spend more time acquiring the necessary knowledge to do the right steps for the future of this industry. For sustainability, a keyword remains, and we want, like the rest of the committee, to ensure optimal land use of the coast – not least for farming, but also for the slaughter and processing of raw materials. We in the Progress Party are very happy that we have found a good solution to the question about this which is described as an area tax, and that we have now reached a broad agreement on a farm fund, we appreciate it very much. That all the municipalities that have raised are going to enjoy this fund, we think is very good. The fact that all the parties are behind the model you've landed on is very good. It's over time, it's hopefully also after changing governments, which may come in the future, and at least after the choices that are coming forward, so that there is predictability for these municipalities. So I'm glad that the batches that had an annual fee within the notes have gone away from it, because what you know – built on historical experience – is that also the farming industry is going to meet difficult times, where the economy becomes demanding in the future, where there are not blue numbers on the bottom line, but red numbers, and it's demanding to pay a fee when you go in minus. So I am very happy that you have landed on this good solution. In conclusion, I just want to say a little bit about interregional biomass ceilings. The government will evaluate it, and we will look at it, but we are aware, as the government is also, that an evaluation must adapt the scheme to a new system in which flexibility is maintained and strengthened. It is important to ensure the necessary raw material for slaughterhouses and establishments involved in the processing of raw material, so that good and safe raw material is still available in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e956	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work that has been done, and would like to highlight in particular the fact that the Committee has put forward a broad range of knowledge through both consultations and on-the-spot inspections. It has been important, and it deserves such a large and important industry as the Norwegian farming industry. So it's saying that the starting point that we got from the government wasn't the best. There was a message that definitely lacked anchoring in the industry. I think that to solve the major challenges facing the farming industry, it was a wrong strategy from the government to present a message to which the industry itself had so many critical objections. The industry, I felt, has been more than willing to engage in dialogue throughout our process. It should also have been the government before they made the announcement. It is also worth noting that many things in the notification were very unclear, and it says mostly in terms of the method of measurement of lice, that the department en route, while the Stortinget had the case for treatment, held information meetings in both Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø on how the notification was actually to be interpreted. So to the story: there should not be an impression that everything in the past has been chaos in the farming industry, and that everything will be clear and clear in the future. Looking at the growth development of the farming industry, the industry has had relatively stable growth. In the future that possibility will also lie there, but hopefully we'll get a few steps further. But I think it's important to be aware that the farming industry is an industry built up from the bottom of, and that one becomes more professional and learns along the way, is a matter of course. The industry must grow within an environmental framework. This is a very important concern for the wild because it is an independent objective – it is important for biodiversity – to take care of the wild. It's not such a big industry, but it's an important industry related to wild-tailed fishing and experiences around wild-tailed fishing. It is clear that if it is not salmon, the value of wildfish will decrease. To the issue of production area, which has been one of the difficult things: here supports an intention with a region ranking, but only the Right does not agree with saying that it is premature to introduce it now. As far as escape is concerned, I have experienced in the inspections and meetings we have had along the way in the process, that there are too weak attitudes in the industry to the question of escape. It's referred to a zero vision, but I've often experienced that a debtor of human error for that to happen. This strategy that is now to be developed must be based on the fact that the zero vision is to be real, and then one must have barriers, so that human errors do not lead to escape. There the centre party wants to support a line, a straight line, because it has to sort it out, it's possible to sort it out, and someone has other industries that have come a long way in barrier thinking and security thinking to prevent escape. So it's been important for the Center Party to facilitate the small actors. We do that first of all in the way that we have said that growth and new concessions should be granted. For the small actors, it will be important that one has the opportunity to get the growth as a fixed price at least, and for the centre party, it has been a goal for the government to look at a model where an auction combines with an annual payment in the years following the award in order to limit the amount that one has to pay to enter the industry. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the area tax. It is clear that an area charge linked to the area of the production that takes place at any time would give the municipalities greater predictability. I believe that if one succeeds in the plans that one has, the model that one has now put on the table will give the municipalities much higher incomes, and for the Central Party it has also been important that a small part of these revenues should be allocated to the county councils, which have an important role in the organisation of the farming industry. Then this fund must be in place on 1 January 2016 – that is a definite requirement – and that revenue can be generated already in 2016 through an 80-20 distribution, which the Committee has pointed out. It is often said that a good case has improved – this is the situation either that a not too good case by the government has improved significantly during the committee’s proceedings. I would particularly like to stress the importance of having civilised dialogue within the Committee and of reaching a broad consensus on this. Then I also notice, as mentioned earlier, that the Greens are so excited to start growing that they won't wait for the latest investigations. We will have to do that later in the debate, and I will also come back to the view of the Central Party on the proposals put forward by the Green and SV Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e979	I would like to start by thanking the Committee and not least the rapporteur for a very good job and constructive cooperation until the position we have on the table today – an attitude on which the Committee is largely in agreement. Today we send a clear message to the farming industry that there is a broad political will to find the best framework conditions and solutions for increased value creation in one of the country's most important industries. At the same time, the Committee stresses that growth in the aquaculture industry cannot be achieved without the ability of industry actors to address the loop challenge or challenges. This is central to the Left, as it stands at the heart of us that the challenge of escaping fish from the meads must be solved. The left is pleased that there is a full consensus in the committee to ask the government to present a strategy against escape based on a zero vision. I believe that this balances well the interests and needs of the farming industry with regard to industrial development, the wild-axis sector and environmental considerations. There can be no doubt that this is a long step towards a more sustainable aquaculture policy, because without safeguarding the environment and addressing the environmental challenges of farming, there will be no sustainable growth. In addition, I am pleased that a greater proportion of the income is due to the municipalities and county councils that have breeding activities. In the Left, we are committed to ensuring the economy of municipalities, to increasing employment and coastal settlements, to ensuring the growth potential of the industry and, not least, to safeguarding the environment. If we are to have better management of environmental challenges and the growth of the farming industry, we must have positive municipalities and more locally anchored cooperation between industry and the authorities. With the new Maritime Fund and the possibility for significantly increased revenues from remuneration to municipalities in hand, municipalities must also take greater responsibility for addressing local environmental challenges in cooperation with industry. Many actors have worked intensively in consultation, in the media and in meeting activities to influence the outcome of this case. It concerns the farming sector, the wild-axis sector, environmental organisations and also fishermen’s organisations. The matter should be very well informed. I have lent ear to many because I want to ensure future development opportunities also for those actors in the coastal zone who in many ways are in competition with the farming industry on land, such as. the fishermen. Not least, the Left and I are occupied with the wild axis – caring for those who have nourished river fishing, and those who fish in the rivers. We also believe that it should be facilitated to facilitate the establishment of land-based farms in Norway and refer to the Committee's comments on this. With the various leaders from the Committee and the various measures we are now asking the government to take, I believe that there are now high ambitions to meet the environmental challenges of farming, while allowing breeders who are able to cope with these challenges to grow. So we are asking today for: the government submits to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner the final proposal for production areas that the government investigates an emission model where the permissible environmental impact of each operator is defined by the government as providing an action plan against resistance that the government is now developing a strategy against escape based on a zero vision; With this and other aspects that are included in the setting, we believe in the Left that a responsible and green course is now being tightened. We make clear assumptions to the operators of the aquaculture industry that environmental considerations must and must be taken into account in order to generate growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1013	The farming industry is a major and important industry for Norway and for the coastal population. Many coastal communities today had been depopulated, and it would not have been for the growth of this industry. History of farming has been a sort of parallel to the growth of oil industry. Both came seriously in the 1970s. Both have become major and important industries along the coast, both in dispute with other coastal industries and environmental interests. At the same time, there's a decisive difference between these two industries from my perspective. Oil industry, in a long-term industrial perspective, will be an end-of-life industry, at least during this hundred year. The farming industry, on the other hand, if it is made resilient, can be the precursor of a decisive model of aquaculture food production globally. In many ways, the farming industry is of the past. But it has to be done correctly. We're becoming more people on this earth, and it requires more food. The land is already more challenging than it is. Fresh water is an increasing shortage. The UN believes that as much as 70 pst. future food production must come from the sea. Many arrows point to just farming and aquaculture in general. But if we're going to get there, a lot has to happen. The industry needs to be really resilient. The road to bearer power follows two tracks: 1. It's a tough requirement. 2nd@item: inlistbox Offensive investment in research and development. Let me take tough demands and bearer power first. Here I would like to congratulate Mr Aspaker. The traffic light system, which is based on the Berry Power Criterion combined with zones, is a very good system. Here I think we're on our way to a system, a framework of aquaculture industry, which opens up a knowledge-based management of our coast. I also think this will dimension and define the political debates we have in this space. At the same time, the government is opening up more growth in an industry that is not yet viable: moderate risk profile, 6 pst. growth, possibly 6 pst. set down if there are no matching criteria. And as a depression, we can imagine that growth is also going to form the starting point for which municipalities are going to sit with. The growth shall simply dimensional the whole industry. I don't disagree with the lights – whether it's red or green or orange – but I disagree with what triggers them. What triggers them is the criterion, and it's based on what the government itself considers to be a poor bearer's criterion. All of them are some of the more important criteria that lexus is, but it's not a key criterion. Not a criterion to tell everything. There are many other relationships. When the government and a number in the Committee consider that we need to develop more criteria for bearer power, it cannot be understood in any other way than that the proposed system is not fully developed, does not provide a complete picture of ecological image from the industry, does not provide a good enough knowledge-based basis for decision-making. Understanding something else would be completely illogical. It is surprising that a co-consultant's committee is opening up to growth on the basis of such a lack of criteria. Then we're back to the precautionary principle: if you're in reasonable doubt, you shouldn't gas on. We should be more concerned with bearer power and long-term utility than with growth and short-term utility in the present. This is the background for SV today proposing no growth in the farming industry until we have created a fully-fledged sustainability regime with several indicators at both production area and concession level. It's not just to dimension the crop that's going to happen, but to regulate the whole industry. Similarly, we propose a proper land tax, which is not growth-dependent – for which there are actually several figures in this room, but which has been negotiated away for who knows what. In addition, the challenges associated with wild species seem to have been properly addressed. But as many people have pointed out, including different disciplines, there are also some other marine species in the vicinity of the farming industry that have not received the same knowledge-based treatment. Here I think there is a challenge in the knowledge base of the Marine Research Institute, on which the message is largely based. The importance of nutrition for other marine species and other coastal industries is to a small extent taken into account. That's why we're proposing a knowledge acquisition about that. So we think that the time is ripe for the ban on chitin inhibitors and a strong reduction in the use of hydrogen peroxide. Kitin inhibitors have been illegal in use, but are increasingly used. It has demonstrated effects on shellfish and crustaceans and possibly other marine species, and thus other coastal industries. Hydrogen peroxide is a fantastic and natural remedy, but it's too much used, as we see today, and it's all of a sudden damaging both in mares and for fish. This is not a discussion for or against the farming industry. I have deep faith in the farming industry as a concept and as a way of life in the future. But as a good friend of the farming industry, I also allowed myself to be deeply critical of the state she is today. If we're really going to be able to become more people on this Earth and at the same time take care of nature, a viable and efficient aquaculture industry is one of the keys. We're not there yet. According to figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, the farming industry currently uses only less than 1 pst. of turnover in research and development — this in an industry with a very large surplus. Compared to other industries, the farming industry is defined as a ‘low tech’ industry. Should we really take the industry into a new division, resilient and efficient, where the brunts of the future are both near the coast and far at sea, both deep and shallow, always safe, always top quality – happy salmon – always bearer power, we cannot escape the fact that both we as public authority and the industry themselves need to use separation more in research, development and technology than we do today. Not to increase the bet I think Norway as a nation, Norwegian nature and the farming industry themselves are losing weight. Although some technological innovations have occurred before farming, the basic technologies are the same as when the industry started at Hitra in the late 1960s. As an illustration, there is still an open note that frame the fish, and nuts that often have to be replaced and that are vulnerable to increasingly uncertain weather. Basic technology is still the same. What if we bring together the world-leading technology environment in the oil industry to help develop future farming technologies? Competence and technology transfer from e.g. offshore is very exciting, and in March Norsk Industrie, Norsk Oil and Gas, Abelia and Tekna took the initiative for Transferit, which is just about it. SV is the only party, I see now, who has proposed it in connection with the revised budget, which has followed up this initiative. It would be exciting, it would really be a conversion of Norway. Of other areas that could lead us forward, Finnfjord can be called melting plants and their projects on algae development to develop feed. What if we were self-sufficient in feed for the farming industry in Norway based on the use of CO2 from e.g. melting and use of Barent Sea algae? It would be a beautiful vision, which I'll tip off the Center Party, which is so engrossed in food security, would be agreeable. Finally, only a few words about local ownership and gain. I think it is problematic that the committee has landed on having an area tax – if we can call it it – that only links to growth. There was a multiple for an area charge in this hall. Technological developments mean that there will be fewer jobs in breeding. We also see that there are fewer actors. Most of the values are actually taken from communities along the coast. Then it's only fair and reasonable that part of the turnover that happens there goes to the municipalities. In any case, I hope we will return to the proposal for a land tax later on, and that there is still a number in this room that is willing to go further with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1056	Are proposals likely to be addressed by the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1059	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1065	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1068	Like all other parties in Stortinget, the Green Party considers the farming industry to be an industry with great potential for the future, not only within the industry’s current production but also as a basis for exploiting the species, the environment and the opportunities that lie in Norway’s fabulous port. But the premise that this is at all conceivable is that this industry must be sustainable, and sustainable in the sense that the word actually has to be interpreted, that is. it must be an industry which does not adversely affect the environment around it. And so recently, there was probably a status report from the Scientific Council for Salmon Management, and it says: ‘Spaced farmed salmon and salmon sauce generally appear to be the two unstabilised threats to the Norwegian wild salmon population. The problem with salmonids appears to be increasing in prevalence and there is a risk that salmonid infective pressures may decrease salmonid in several areas in the coming years.’ As is well known, salmon insight in Norway has been more than halved from 1983 to 2014, and the only reason we do not see a direct collapse in the wild salmon population is that the tax has been greatly reduced. This may not result from anything other than the way in which Norwegian farming has been managed in the last 20, 25, 30 years. There is the absence of measures, the absence of effective policies and the absence of requirements allowing the farming industry to continue to grow violently, although these problems are thus once again pointed out to be increasing and out of control after fully up-to-date research. The Green Party has repeatedly praised the Minister for Fisheries to propose new measures and mechanisms that are better and more committed and potentially more effective than their predecessors. It is good that we finally discuss a regime in which pressures on the external environment are used as a basis for total production, so that it is basically possible to envisage a reduction in production as a result of non-compliance with environmental indicators. But the agreement that the Storting has now agreed on is unfortunately something else. It maintains once again the main problem of the industry, opening up to continued growth, which will eliminate environmental improvements. This is the strong growth in industry over many years, which is why various environmental measures have not had the effect on the external environment that they were supposed to have. For it is true that even if only the best installations, which keep the lice requirements, grow, the lice situation for the coastal environment is governed by all the other installations, which do not comply with the environmental requirements. That's what's one of the big problems. Therefore, the tidy of the nutrition committee would be to put a stop to growth, for example. three years, as the Green Party has proposed in the Storting and spend that time solving environmental problems once and for all, not on growth in production. So instead, we've got a deal that opens up some good opportunities, but it's going to figure out what to do, which is going to wait for plans for lice measures, escape measures, etc., and which refers to zero visions that have existed for years. Unfortunately, we have heard this before – it is not the same as concrete measures. And it's not only sad for the environment on the coast, it's also sad for the farming industry itself that Norwegian policies and Norwegian population do not manage to do the job that it owes it to the industry and that it owes it to the coastal environment, namely finally to take the measures that have been proposed for years to solve relatively simple problems. The Green Party today makes three proposals, firstly that the Storting asks the government to include escape and disappearance as concessional indicators. So today we're talking about a large number of people who want to develop a strategy for escape. What has actually happened in the last 20 years, while millions of salmon have escaped? Making escape an indicator directly linked to concession terms is a very obvious measure, which will have real effect. So you almost have to ask yourself if that's why it's not introduced. An indicator of disappearance is also necessary. Except for 20 pst. the salmon in current production dies in the mermaids. A number raise very serious questions about fishing welfare, and it shows the need for far more effective fishing welfare instruments than the farming industry is currently required. Secondly, we propose that the Stortinget ask the government to introduce requirements for individual labelling of farmed salmon. It's an ancient proposal. Individual labelling is a prerequisite for tracing and retrieving escaped salmon and for providing effective sanctions for escape. The Greens are pleased that the Committee brings forward positive environmental aspects of closed installations and that the Committee now removes the requirement for compensation for land-based farming. It's a big step forward in lifting up such a technology. But that is why, as our third proposal, we propose that an investment grant should be established for closed installations or technologies with similar environmental benefits. Time has to be overdue to develop solutions that, from the start, remove the problems of escape and lice that are obviously integrated into traditional meridian technology, not only in the interests of the environment, but also in the interests of a breeding industry that needs to get a kick where kick works, to become a world leader in technology. It is very special to note that it has been a very long time since the last Storting discussed the environmental state of the other Norwegian industry, which has potentially emitted a fraction of something that is environmentally harmful. But we are not discussing this, because we have taken measures for the longest time, which, apart from automatically keeping the industry within the environmental requirements adopted by the Stortinge. But there is every reason to believe that we are going to meet in a short time and discuss again the environmental problems of the farming industry, because it is still not willing to take the concrete measures that we know will get this industry to solve its environmental problems. It's not doing industry a service, it's not doing the environment a service, and it's not doing the green shift a service. So we encourage the government to drive more new revolutions in it despite all the positive things in the government's proposal, and get there as we know we need to, to measures that actually make the farming industry in Norway a sustainable industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1099	Then the President assumes...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1102	I would like to take up the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1107	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1110	Norwegian aquaculture has grown adventurously rapidly, from a reintroduction of the 1960s/1970s to today's billions industry employing thousands of people and producing well ten million healthy meals every day. Norwegian seafood is our main export item for oil and gas, but scientists have established that there is a potential to sixfold the value creation in the marine industries from 2010 to 2050. Thus, the greatest increase — almost a five-fold increase — must be able to come from farming. However, this presupposes addressing a number of challenges. The steps we propose in this Communication will help solve some of these challenges. Norwegian farming industry is not only a leader in the production of healthy seafood in clean waters. The knowledge and technology we have developed by building this industry is also a great export potential. In the Communication, we want to stimulate further technological development by removing the number limit and remuneration for land-based concessions. Closed marine installations could be provided with green light for growth regardless of the lice situation in the area. And we want to create a new tool in the form of development concessions that can realise new technologies, for example offshore production. I believe that the export of healthy Norwegian seafood will double in the years to come, but the technology and equipment industry too has a very bright future ahead. I am therefore pleased that a broad majority of the Business Committee agrees with the government that this industry needs predictable framework conditions and that a competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry demands that the framework conditions remain constant over time. An overall committee also agrees that growth in Norwegian salmon and trout tops is to be environmentally sustainable. Consideration is given to the environment to determine the growth rate of the farming industry, not the market. The government has proposed linking growth in Norwegian salmon and trout tops to an action rule based on a system of environmental indicators in production areas. This is a system that provides strong incentives to operate environmentally sustainable. We will stimulate economic operators to invest in technologies and operating modes that help keep the environmental footprint within acceptable limits. Today’s farm does not affect only its own neighbourhood. They affect each other, but also the environment in a larger area. Salmon and nutrient salts are distributed with water streams. Therefore, we cannot only control production growth according to operational requirements at the locality level. We also need to manage the industry on the basis of what is an acceptable overall impact of all installations in a larger geographical area. A prerequisite for such an approach is the existence of a geographical area in which environmental impacts can be measured. Division into production areas is a process I will now continue. This process will also involve relevant actors, so that both industry, municipalities and administrators can be confident that we will find boundaries between the different areas that take into account practicalities — within the framework of what is natural science sensible. Today’s flexibility with interregional biomass ceilings will be ensured in the new growth system. I note that a broad majority of the Business Committee supports the government on important points, such as the establishment of production areas and the establishment of boundaries for these areas in the light of scientific assessments. Furthermore, I note that there is a consensus on an important principle, namely that the actors in an area will be responsible for the overall burden on the production area. There is a broad consensus that salmonmus and escape are the main environmental challenges of the aquaculture industry in the short term, and there is a broad political consensus that salmonmus is suitable as a growth indicator. I'm glad. It's important here to generate new knowledge, but it's very important to make use of the knowledge that we already have. We want to use the available knowledge from several disciplines in the completion of a model to measure lice loads on wild populations. Until the system is implemented, the research environment will have optimised the model, in line with the wishes of the nutrition committee. I am therefore confident that the model will be a good tool to assess whether there is room for growth when we arrive at the end of 2016/2017. There is also agreement that escape is less suitable as an indicator of growth. But that doesn't mean we're leaving the null vision of escape. On the contrary, we are taking this challenge very seriously. By «Rule on joint responsibility for defrosting, etc.» by escaped farmed fish’, the Government has ensured an obliging agreement with the industry on the financing of the catchment of listed farmed fish. The agreement will be an important instrument for better control of the challenges of escape, but it does not mean that we are in target. Escape can still happen – as in the case of extreme weather in the last winter. The review by the Directorate of Fisheries of the many escape incidents has shown that mooring failures were the main cause of the hurricane’s severe consequences. I am now waiting for the report and conclusions of the Directorate and, if necessary, ready to launch new measures to prevent escape. Therefore, as the Committee asks, I would like to start work but a strategy against escape, including: the experience of the storm in the last winter will be included in the work. I am pleased that the Economic and Social Committee agrees that an area charge should not be imposed on the aquaculture industry. Municipality-Norway gets a lot left to be the hosts of the aquaculture industry. They receive jobs and tax income, and not just from the aquaculture industry itself. For each job in the aquaculture industry, four jobs are created in other establishments. It is government policy that municipalities should receive much of the remuneration for the award of growth. The Committee now proposes that a record proportion of the remuneration, 80 pst., will be allocated to the municipal sector. The Government, as requested by the Committee, will now start work on the creation of a Maritime Fund and develop allocation keys to ensure a fair distribution of the remuneration revenue, based on the ability and willingness of municipalities to be good promoters of the aquaculture industry. The Norwegian economy needs more growth industries. We need like never before more legs to stand on. There are good reasons why aquaculture should be one of the major industries we're going to live on in the future. Sustainable food production is perhaps one of the most sensible things we can use the Norwegian coast for. A predictable capacity adjustment system in Norwegian salmon farming will contribute to a bright future for an industry with a high growth potential. This forecast is a clear invitation for the farming industry to invest more in greener technology. The industry can effectively influence its own growth potential. A five-fold increase in farming by 2050 is both about making the industry greener where it is today, and about stimulating technological development, so that the industry can use new land both on land and beyond at sea over the next decades. In Norway, we have world-leading knowledge environments and ambitious business actors, and thus the very best prerequisites for success. Thus, small Norway can play an increasingly important role in delivering healthy food to the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1157	On Friday 12 June, we were able to read in a press release that the Minister for Fisheries is proposing changes in the growth of aquaculture and is sending a proposal to that effect. In other words, it is between the committee's work on aquaculture growth and the mainstreaming of aquaculture growth. How will the Minister for Fisheries explain this, which must be seen as a total lack of respect for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1164	I find it difficult to understand the question or the accusation made here by the representative of Ingrid Heggø. The new tools to ensure the further development of this industry have been called for from many of the big business representatives, from many environments. So we have sent to the hearing what is going to be the proposal for a new tool, which these research permits are currently unable to respond to, when this industry wants to develop with greater technology leaps and with more emphasis on green. I cannot, therefore, understand with my best will anything but that a total increase, even now that this has been sent to the hearing, should agree that it is important for the authorities to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1169	Content is not affected. Respect for the needs of the Biggest – growth in the aquaculture industry is at stake. We are in the middle of the committee's handling and Stortinget's handling when the minister is so busy that she can't wait two days. It's alarming to have a minority government that ignores the Storting. My question is: can we be sure that the Minister will take it on board, and can she guarantee that what the Storting has come with proposals for this message will be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1176	I believe that I would not do my job as a councillor if I was not fully engaged in facilitating an industry that an overall committee says it is important to further develop. We have sent to the hearing a proposal for amendments to a regulation, such as the Council of State and the Ministry. I have read the setting and I am very pleased with the great degree of consensus that lies there, and we will of course follow up what it says, but I read the setting so that what we have now sent to the hearing is a strongly wanted development from a total expansion. I still cannot understand how to criticise finding the new instruments to help us develop Norwegian aquaculture in a greener and more competitive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1182	The point is that the Storting had not dealt with this before the Minister for Fisheries sent it out on a hearing. It's, no matter how we turn around and turn it around, it's alarming that one didn't have time to wait for the collapse management, but found out that one had to take it in between. So I ask again: can the Minister for Fisheries guarantee that the proposals that a joint committee is making here today will be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1189	I see no difference between what is in the setting here, and the fact that we are now making provision for new tools in the toolbox to further develop the industry. I find that many parties here at Stortinget, including Ingrid Heggø's own party, have requested just the grips that are proposed. This is a regulation to be laid down by the Council of State and the Ministry. And I still can't understand anything other than that it's my job, my duty, to help organize the industry. And I find that all the business organisations and a number of single actors have been out saying, "Yes, this is the kind of new tool we need if Norwegian aquaculture industry is to develop further, and if the supplier industry is to develop further. And it is particularly important at a time when we see that it is in contrast to other sectors, and where the expertise available on the technology and engineering side can be taken over and benefited from the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1196	The representative Knag Fylkesnes was concerned that the aquaculture industry had to have real sustainability if it were to grow. He gave praise to the government when it came to setting tough demands, but was probably a little more uncertain when it came to research and development in this sector. The Committee has visited two sites, including: in Florø. There we met Karstensen's Fish Farm and Marø Havbruk. We were looking at the windshield, we were looking at salmonnus, we were looking at the production of spoonfish, and we were hearing about the well boat order that some medium-sized breeders had gone over, to get a hold of it. What is the impression of the Council of State on research and development in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1203	It's a very important topic that the representative Hemdal addresses. It's my clear impression that the industry is using more and more resources, but I wish the industry had taken even greater interest. It is still important that the authorities do what we can, but it is also important that the industry now sees, on the basis of this Communication, that with the facility given to the future growth system, any krone more than they invest in the development of new technologies and more sustainable operating modes will help to give them even greater probability of growth in the new system. That's how I think it's going to be very exciting. There are very good relations now between the knowledge and competence environments and the research institutes in this field. The Government also organises the Arena programme, the NCE and the GCE. It does a lot, but the industry can definitely do even more itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1210	I would like to challenge you a little bit about land taxes, or farm funds, which became the child's name. It was supposed to replace a bingo system, which one has today, where the municipal share is 50 pst, respectively. and 60 pst. either in the case of growth on existing concessions or new concessions. Now this is going to go up to 80 pst. It is also very good that this goes through a fund and is distributed both to those who have bred from before, and to new ones. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State guarantee that from 1 January 2016, all revenues from new concessions and growth on existing concessions will be allocated on the basis of a key of 80 pst. for municipalities and counties, and 20 pst. to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1222	I am very pleased with the majority in the Grand Duchy who have now pointed out that it is the income from the remuneration that is to enter a fund and that is then to be paid to municipalities that are good host municipalities and facilitate this industry. I've got what I see as a clear marshall from Stortinget, and I signaled in my post that we will immediately start working on developing the new system, establishing this fund, and also making suggestions for these distribution keys. This, I think, is pretty important to think through so that we get some incentives that make us get to the good organization in the future. Because if this industry is to grow bigger, we're dependent on getting more municipalities that are benevolent and that make their job of facilitating new areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1227	I think I agree more with the minister than the representative, Mr Hemdal, when it comes to the view of R & D in the industry. I've also come to realize that there is a real need for a higher stake here, and I hope that the minister whispers this in his ear to his party traps. SV has a proposal in the Chamber today, which should aim to increase the R & D share both in public authorities and in the private sector. What I want to ask you is salmonnus. I'm completely in agreement with the fact that the leprous is a very important indicator, but it's not the only indicator that's important. In the message and in the committee settings, it points to the need for more indicators to give a real picture of the detection. How will the government continue to work on this, and there will be indicators on, for example: emissions, which is a good indicator at the level of production?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1236	What is important with the indicators to be in the future system is that there are indicators that obviously affect the environment around them. We have established the status and said that as of today, lice is the most obvious indicator. The system is dynamic, so it is possible to add indicators and adjust indicators. We have also pointed out that the size of the industry today does not mean that we need emissions here and now as an indicator, but if the industry is to grow and become five times as large, we have to take that into account. That is why we are already going to start work on developing such an emission indicator. The size has asked for the evaluation of indicators for fish health and disappearance. And of course we're going to do that, but it's going to be a little bit further in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1246	Here were a few articles that require some brief comments. The representative Pollestad says we have to be aware that growth has been delivered in the past. I fully agree with that. But when it has been important for us to point out that there should be predictable growth, and that there should be objective criteria, it has its background in particular. that the two allocation rounds under the red-green regime have not yet come out of the courtroom – they have not actually been clarified yet. The award rounds are held in court today. That's what's a bit of the idea behind this with objective award criteria. It shall be easier, and there shall be a clear moment of competition, in order to increase the predictability of the industry and thus to increase its resources in research and development. That's the one. Then to the line from the representative, Ingrid Heggø. I have to tell you, I have a lot of problems with understanding at all. In this setting, the Committee says - and it is therefore a unanimous committee, and I do not remember that the Labour Party had any reservations at all when this was the case: ‘The Committee shares the government’s view that it is necessary to increase both public and private R & D efforts. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the government is more open than the current research permits for development purposes. The Committee supports this. The Committee considers that a number of R & D concessions must contribute to industrial technology commitments and that they should be given a time perspective that can better defend large investments.’.» This is what the committee says unanimously in the setting. So it's sent out to the hearing a regulatory change that satisfies this. It is quite strange that the Workers' Party can believe that this is going against the Storting, and that the timing is bad. The timing cannot be better, if it is not the case that the Workers' Party believes that this must be waited for – all positive developments must be waited for. It's the only motivation I can find for something like this. We've worked a lot to figure out what kind of way the lines could come. This shot they so that I almost sat disturbed again. Here we get clear comments, a clear attitude from the Committee and a clear recommendation that we should focus more on research and development. The Council of State almost delivers verbatim – and then the timing is too bad. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1269	The point of the line that I had doesn't go into the content. I have not said that the Labour Party is opposed to something that has been sent out on the phone – but it is going on in the process. The size has not treated growth in the aquaculture industry. When one is so eager that a middle between committee management and Storting's handling sends out on the phone, I think it's a serious warning about what we're waiting for. The government didn't answer to why it wouldn't wait for the potion to process it. That's two days from now. It can't be that hard to get things out until the Stortinget has given its opinion on the matter. The size is, regardless of whether the representative Bakke-Jensen thinks so or not, overseeing the government. I'm worried about missing answers from the Council of State. I'm worried when one can't give the guarantee I asked for three times, that the Storting's will is to be carried out. I have not yet received an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1278	Let me start by saying to the representative Ingrid Hegø that in my last reply to her I pointed out that I have read the position carefully, I have noticed all the recommendations that have come from the committee, I have noticed the proposals that are there, and it is of course the government's task to follow up what is the will of the committee and the Stortinge in this matter. But there aren't many weeks since I got a sharp question from Trond Giske, the representative, about where it was of the possibilities to realize, for example. this offshore mermaid that SalMar has on the drawing board, and where NTNU and the professional environments in Trondheim are heavy inside. Then I sent it to the hearing now on Friday – after the committee had given a unanimous position asking for the same thing, and the impatience has been great among many representatives here and from the industry – and so it must be wrong. I understand that the Workers' Party is struggling with their opposition and perhaps they would like to be the sender of the wise suggestions themselves, but I still believe that it is my job to facilitate that we can use the tools we have in the R & D area. We are in a situation where the dynamics in the aquaculture industry have been such that it has grown past and out of the tool portfolios we had to take the big technological rites. Doing this at a time when oil and gas industries are struggling, where we have free engineers, where we have free technologists – the timing could probably not have been better. This is really taking action to get to the transition and to position Norwegian aquaculture industry and Norwegian supplier industry in the lead, so that also other countries say ‘Look to Norway’, come to Norway and want to learn from us, get to technology transfer and buy what we can do to produce, and it helps us to develop the farming industry in a greener direction. So once again I just have to say: I wonder at the criticism I get here, but I notice that the representative Hegø is a lonely swallow, and that everyone else who has commented on the proposal has actually accepted it and almost gave it applause.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1293	I think it is quite remarkable that an industry with such growth power – and in particular with some challenges – has gone through the Storting with so much consensus as this, and that the Workers' Party chooses to use three lines on a purely formalism and perhaps, as the Council of State said, wanted to be the sender of these things itself. To Pollestad, who said it was not too good a message: I think there is a lot of evidence that it is a brilliant message. Governments have great ambitions, including in relation to the environment. I think the industry should be very happy about that, because it's clear that there's one thing that can be a challenge for the farming industry, it's the environmental issue. That the Council of State has greater ambitions than the majority of the Grand Council, I think one should be very pleased with. I really think the line change here showed just what we've had a sense of: that the Workers' Party really wants to be the proposer and to be the driver behind a lot of this itself, and is working intensely to put some obstacles in the way of a government council that has very big ambitions on behalf of the industry. I think the coast should be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1302	First, when it comes to the hearing, I'm not going to use the big words. But one could have waited the two days until the Storting has dealt with the matter, which is happening today. I will no longer hold the debate on it. But it was Gunnar Gundersen's contribution that made me go up here, because it must come out in the debate that I have rarely experienced such strong reactions in some industry because of a communication, as has come from the aquaculture industry in this matter. There have been strong words, and it has also – I believe – been a broad consensus that the scheme that was originally in the message would be a scheme that would lead to a short-term decline. The strong response was expressed both at the Committee’s inspections, at the hearing and in the public vocabulary. But then I believe that the Committee, and also the Right and Advance Party, have contributed constructively to the discussions we have had, so that we have now received a message and an attitude to which the industry has found the basis for giving commendation. That's good, and that was my point in my first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1311	The representative, Ingrid Heggo, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1314	For the last time today at least: it's not the proposal The Labour Party itself is against – I think I've pointed very many times – but it's the process I've seen a big question mark by. A minister must actually stick to the Storting and not to a committee position, and I am very concerned about the lack of respect for what the Storing stands for, and for the further follow-up of a great majority. So I think that the committee has contributed to the fact that the message that was on the table, which was very poorly received by the industry itself, has gone completely wrong. I also think we have found a right balance between the wild fish interests and the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1321	The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1324	I just want to clarify about most of the harsh criticism that came from the industry when the message came. It came from them in the industry who believe that there is no connection between the lice impact on farmed salmon and wild salmon. There I am very pleased that the committee is quite clear. This relationship is seen, and insofar as there is doubt about it, it is said that the precautionary principle should apply, so that makes the message very good. There can be no impression that there was a message from the Council of State that the whole industry was opposed to. Large parts of the strong voices believe that that connection does not exist. We might find out that it's true sometime, but we don't have that knowledge right now. Therefore, the notification has taken place in relation to the knowledge acquisition and models.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1329	Thank you for this debate. I think until some point we have managed to raise the focus and have the right visions and views for this industry. It is true that, through this attitude, we have found a balance point in the nutrition committee, and that is what it is about, to find a balance point that is forward-looking for the aquaculture industry. We've found the balance point where wild fish friends are satisfied, and where those who feed themselves are satisfied, and then we give some challenges to research to get even better where we don't have enough knowledge. The Committee adopts a precautionary principle. We assume that there must be sustainable growth, and then the industry must have control of lice, control of escape, etc. We have a natural assumption in our country through the Gulf Stream, and it tells the Committee that we're going to use. Networks of fjord and coastal municipalities are pleased with the fund that the Committee came up to give resources back to the municipalities – they are disappointed that it was not an area tax that they had pointed to, but they are, after all, very happy that a fund was set up – so we have managed to give more funds to municipalities and county municipalities, and we have found a better balance point for this industry, where we focus the environment on something.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1338	I want to thank the Committee for its great commitment to this matter. This is a hugely important industry, and I think the commitment shown by the Committee also reflects the importance of the industry. I think it was the representative of Knag Fylkesnes who said that for some of these coastal communities that currently live from farming, the option might have been that there had been few left, and the last one was going to turn off the light. So the importance of the industry for the coast and Norway can't be in doubt. Then I also want to say that it is quite right that there have been critical voices from the industry. But it's a political responsibility to think completely, and the Law of Natural Diversity tells us to think completely. We can't just look at one and one company, one and one company, but I see that the business operators like to see things from such a perspective. But it is our responsibility to take full responsibility, and I believe that the committee has done very well, and I believe that we have endorsed what is the main thrust of the communication. Then we have a way to go in the further process, where we're going to process, where we're going to put models, where we're going to acquire knowledge from multiple disciplines, and where we're going to make sure that the system we end up with becomes a good and forward-looking system for the industry. But I remember that when we did the last big grab in Norwegian aquaculture, in 2005, when we introduced the MTB regime, the industry was very skeptical about it at the time. Today you embrace that system, and no one wants to go back to feeding quotas and what was kind of the regime before that. Similarly, I think that yes, that's a challenge and a transition now, but I believe that as important as this industry is, and when we see it in a 35-year perspective up to 2050, we are now putting in place a system that is viable in response to what is ambition, that we are going to be able to fifth-fold production in the Norwegian marine industry. I would also venture the claim that no government has, before this government, submitted a message with such strong incentives to the industry even to develop new technology and to develop new forms of operation that will help us to become the best in the world even in the future in the production of food through the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1347	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1361	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1368	With regard to king crab management, it is an introduced species that has been commercially managed since the early 2000s in Norway. The management model is such that it has a commercial zone from the Russian border and east to North Cape. West of that border you have a disembarkation zone, or a zone where you're going to fish as much as you can. In many ways the administration of the king crab is a success story. One is concerned when a new species is introduced, this about how it should affect the areas, the biology and how to keep it under control. In the commercial zone, one has worked for 15 years with a brand project where there have been skilled fishermen and buyers who have found that they are selling the king crab – Norwegian king crab – exclusively, under the brand Varanger. This has meant that they have created significant values, and this has enabled us to build up a fleet of market competence in this area of fishing. In the past, they fished crabs, frozen them, and sold clusters, i.e. claws. So far, for a large part, you fish the crab, take it on land, and export it to the living. The paradox is that skilled practitioners fish the crab that comes walking from the Russian side, and deliver it back to Moscow for a little over 450 kroner per kilogram. It has to be called a good shop in the middle of it, which is really a bit of a sad story about an introduced species that shouldn't be there. The Communication goes on with the principles of administration that have been very much. One retains the two areas, but in order to professionalise the fishing a little bit more and fulfill what has been the intention both in the previous Royal Cancer Message and in this, the fishing and the values must go to those who have lost other fisheries when the crab came. You make a lot of demands. First, you set requirements for the size of a boat. Other fishing activities are also required in order to be allocated quota in royal crab fish. All of these have been well received in virtually all fishing environments, and there are interventions to promote a more professional and better fishing. You also change the quota year so that you can stretch the season and have available crabs all year round. It increases the value of consumers, and it increases the value of value creation. In this case, Mrs Sametinget has been consulted, and in those consultations there has been a great deal of agreement in most areas. It is largely just the discussion about the size of the boat that there has been a disagreement about. The argument from the government and in the message is that a boat over six meters makes you capable of caring for the crab in a proper way. There is also a safety aspect with regard to these fisheries. A crab seine is quite big to deal with, and you shouldn't be doing that kind of fishing with for small boats. There is broad agreement on everything in the committee. There is a minority proposal in a slightly special case. It has been discussed over a number of years whether fishermen in the municipality of Másøy can get a quota of their own. Mashøy is a border municipality of Porsanger, where the border goes. Thus, the municipality of Másøy is outside the commercial area and it has been discussed whether the Másøy fishermen can obtain a quota in the commercial area. Four-five years ago this was highly topical, because then the value of commercial fishing was so great that it actually meant a good deal to a fisherman who wanted to participate. The municipality of Másø experienced, among others: that people moved east from the municipality, took the boats with them and established themselves instead in East Finland to participate in this fishing. Things have changed today. First of all, there's a much larger disembarkation fish in the west. Secondly, you now have a purchase that makes you make the same amount of money on the crab you fish in the west as you earn on the one you fish in the east. So the big economic advantage of having an allowance in the commercial area is no longer there, and so the government says you have to have the zones and the breakdown that they've been. There's also a reason for controlling and managing the zone that makes it easier if you're absolutely sure you have a limit. That is why the Communication has said no to that, and the majority in the Committee also said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1389	As the case-speaker did well, there is agreement that the model for the administration of royal crabs has our special success. One has actually managed to develop commercial fishing in the east with the two-part administration regime, while one has the ability to keep the stock under control of west deterrent fishing. The working party also agrees to introduce requirements for placing on the market in other fisheries in order to be allocated quota in royal crab fish, for which the coordinator also did well. In this context, the working party would also point out that some traditional fisheries are difficult to deal with because of the royal crab, e.g. fjord fishing for rays and flies - so that one to some extent may be adversely affected by the king crab even if one has not been caught. We also show that the difference between fishers on pages A and B with the relative half and the whole quota is over. Therefore, we ask that the upper and lower limit of the proposed model be carefully monitored and evaluated after some time. We have been aware of the importance of environmental monitoring, and we also point out that the system of tailings is still an important measure to limit the spread of royal crabs. There are two areas of intrusion in the Committee. The one is about those with boats less than six meters to get involved in crab fishing, the other about the fishermen in the municipality of Måsøy to participate. First about boats under six meters: the main reason for giving quotas to king crabcatchers was that those who were the most plagued by the royal crab coming in, and who for that reason lost access to fishing, were the ones who were going to get quotas. This will also apply to those with boats less than six meters. With activity requirements and allowance allocation table, the quota to vessels of less than 6 metres will be very limited. The major additional control measures should not be triggered. In addition, there is a questionable argument from the government when everyone is to be punished because a few cheats. We would like to point out that strict requirements must also be imposed on those with boats less than six metres which ensure good animal welfare by the fact that the ship has a deck space for the crab on board and as a means of preserving the safety and execution of the fishing. When we do not make any proposals for this, it has a clear connection with the fact that in the committee it is only the Labour Party and the Center Party that share this view. The entire Committee is busy and aware that fishermen from the municipality of Måsøy have called for the possibility of participating in commercial fishing. Mashøy is a border municipality, and the municipality has also pointed out the dilemma that one with nets and line fishing is having problems with the king crab fishing taking on old fish fields and thus hindering traditional fishing. One might argue, of course, that there will always be a border municipality, but the main principle of getting a crab quota is that those who are the most plagued by the entry of the king crab are the ones who should have a quota. The presence of crabs, caused by the fishers from Måsøy, both by the fact that crabs may be a barrier to traditional fishing and indirectly through border problems against the commercial catchment area. It should be possible to create an arrangement where those who want to do so may seek to obtain allowances in the commercial area, but they will then be cut off from disembarking during the period they operate the commercial fishing – this to meet the control aspect. A boat that is looking to participate in the commercial fishing must give up the period to be fished, for example. January or February. Once the quota in the commercial fish has been set up, you can fish again in the demersal area. In the same way, it must be allowed for boats that have quota, and whether one is busied east of Nordkap – the border of the commercial area – to have disembarkation fishing driven after the commercial quota has been set up. It is desirable that most of the fishers in Måsøy should be fished with desimation. By providing them with access to commercial fishing, they will receive a safer income so that they can invest in crab fishing equipment. The working party is concerned that one must also include a mandatory and concrete design of activity requirements in the desimation fisheries, for example. in the form of supplied quantum disinfestation crabs, in order to obtain a quota in the commercial areas. I would like to stress from the Labour Party that it is important to consult the Sameting before any changes are made. I hereby accept the submission from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1417	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1420	Once we've got an unwanted species into our country, it's lucky that it tastes very good and that it's very willing to pay for it. With regard to the main features of the Committee's position on the management of king-fishing, I support it as the representative of Bakke-Jensen, as rapporteur of the case, and also the representative of Heggø until now has said. I would like to draw attention to the question of the participation of Másøy fishermen in commercial fishing. It is right that disembarkation fishing, or free fishing, has gained a significant amount, but I also get a signal from our rapporteur in Måsøy that it is important for the settlement in Måsøy that one also has the opportunity to participate in commercial fishing. It provides more predictable and stable revenues than participation in free fishing. I have also registered – I cannot prove it – that the case rapporteur, Bakke-Jensen, in the election campaign had a slightly different view of the matter when he visited Måsøy, than what is expressed in the vote today. I would like to stress that the proposal presented by the Labour Party and the Central Party is a cautious proposal. We're saying that we want a limited participation. That is to say, the assessments made in the proposal, of the impact of opening up to the fishers of the Sea of Mushrooms in commercial fishing, on those already involved in that fishing, are significantly overestimated. So I hope you can get a majority to ask the government to look at this and consider whether the Másøy fishermen will have an opportunity to participate in commercial fishing. And it's important to stress that in terms of the limit, it's not the proposed move. That's what we want to go there today. It is only a matter of whether a few fishermen from Måsøy should also be able to participate in commercial fishing. It will strengthen the Mashøy community, it will hopefully also increase participation in the disembarkation fisheries and contribute overall to an even better management of the royal crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1429	It has been an intention that king crab fishing in the quotad area of East Finland should be reserved for those most affected by by by-catch problems with king crabs in other fisheries, i.e. those which have partially destroyed their traditional fisheries and lost income after the entry of the king crab. At the same time, there has been an objective to limit the spread westwards. That's why we've had a free fishing and a grant scheme west of the quota area. This management model was endorsed by Stortinget in 2008, and this notification reviews the experience of that regulatory regime. But we also look forward to the future. The two-part administration continues, but we want to facilitate that the harvest of the eastern Finland population can bring even greater value to society. We have managed to limit the spread of royal crab further westwards in Norwegian waters, while maintaining and managing the stock in a quotad area. This provides the basis for the income of fishermen who have been given reduced income opportunities in traditional fisheries following the entry of the king crab. I am pleased that the changes we have proposed to participate in fisheries and link to activity in other fisheries by quota allocation are supported by a majority in the Committee. A lower ship's boundary is about safety and proper raw material treatment. The new allocation model will contribute to greater activity in other fisheries and will thus also help to maintain reception stations and infrastructure on the land side, including in particular. The whole thing has been very busy. But the most important thing about the model is that those who are most negatively affected by king crabs as by-catch in other fisheries, also become those who get the largest king crab quota. This model does not exclude any king crabs. You can fish 10 pst. by an entire king crab quota without being placed on the market from other fisheries, if the conditions for participation in the fishing activities are otherwise fulfilled. We harvest natural resources, and we want professional players in our commercial fisheries. We deliver a commodity, and we deliver a brand. We believe that we will achieve the highest value creation by facilitating professional fishermen – those who are best placed to carry out rational fishing and manage the catches as best they can. New markets have been opening up in recent years for the export of living king crabs, with high demand and very good prices. This has contributed to increased value creation and is a further argument for developing more professional actors. It is gratifying that the majority of the committee also supports the government on this point. Másøy Municipality is close to the quota area, but the west border goes further east, about the middle of Nordkap Municipality, so Måsøy is not a direct border municipality to the quota area. While it can be argued that vessels from Måsøy have also lost traditional fishing grounds after the entry of the king crab, it must nevertheless be said that vessels resident in Måsøy municipality are not as directly affected as fishermen in East Finland. West of North Cape we have a free king crab fishing and a subsidy scheme from which several vessels from the municipality of Måsøy have good income. This must be considered as compensation for the disadvantages of the royal crab in this area. I will finally mention that the royal crab has also become part of the experience tourism in Finnmark. The royal crab can thus contribute to value creation even outside the marine food industry itself. We aim to simplify the process of granting tourist fishing permits to tourism businesses, so that we can also make the best use of the king crab in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1459	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1462	Case rapporteur Frank Bakke-Jensen said that the administration is a success story. Does the Council agree that it is a success story for the Másøy fishermen as well, all the time we have experienced fishermen moving from Måsøy municipality and east to get the highly sought after quota? They don't because they want to leave their municipality. They do it because it's an unreasonable administration, and it has great consequences for the municipality. I am registering that the party of the Council of State in Måsøy City Council also does not agree with the Supreme Court's assessments of this. My question is then: why does the government not want to correct this unfairness, or does it perhaps not do anything that the Mashø fish leave Mashøy and move to the east?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1469	Of course, it's a shame if a municipality in Finnmark, like Másøy, loses its inhabitants, and people move on. If we go to catch statistics and look at catch values, it has evolved so that those who drive and fish outside the quotad area can get more income from disembarkation than they have in the quotad area. That's because there's been so many there that it's gone beyond the quota size. Then I think you're in a situation where you have to make some choices. We are concerned that we should have a fish that should be interesting to operate in the quota area, and therefore we have come to the conclusion that today, as it has evolved, it is actually in favour of those who are operating and fishing in the area that is unregulated and that have disembarkation fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1476	Does the Council of State consider that there are no unreasonable differences between the Mashøy fishermen and those holding allowances in this quota area? I want an answer, a very clear answer to whether the Council of State considers it unreasonable, or whether she believes it is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1482	We have listened to the advice we have received. We've looked at catch statistics. We've looked at the value of the catch of crabs that fishermen catch on land, when you compare what's happening in the quota area, and what's happening in disembarkation fishing. Now we see that those who participate in the disembarkation fishing, as Mashøy fishermen can do, are left with larger values because there are so many who fish in the quota area that the allowances have become small per fish. As I said, we have listened to the advice we have received. We build on the two-part management system from 2008, and we have concluded that, in order to be attractive to operate in the quota area, it is not advisable for more people to enter that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1487	Although the fish disembarkation provides good income at present, it must be clear that something is different, for example. in relation to the use of these revenues as a basis for the financing of a new boat. The holding of allowances in the regulated fisheries is safer. The reason I took a reply was that the Council of State said that it was no longer relevant to make changes. Then my question is: will the Council of State consider this in the future, and, if conditions change, be open so that the Mashøy fishermen too can participate to a limited extent in the ordinary king-fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1494	With the quota sizes we have today, we've been busy with one thing: we have to be able to have such a good fish on the crab in the quota area that it actually provides the basis for having reception stations, and that we can get the fishers and the fisheries to work with the disadvantages that the crab has entered that area. Now, as of today, with the allowances that are on the crab, it's not advisable to divide those allowances into more. I'm busy listening to what, among other things. The merger has said in this context, where one has been busy not helping to engulf the allowance system in the quota area in such a way that we might actually kick our legs under everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1499	I record that in the calculations you have made in the notification, there is a huge amount of participation from the Másøy fishermen if it is opened up, and then the consequences of it have been assessed. I agree with that, and that is why the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have used the term 'limited scope' in their proposal. But my question back again, and which I did not get the answer to in the first line, is: When the Council of State uses the term ‘per today’, can it then be opened for the assessments to be made later to be different?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1506	It can never be ruled out that the assumptions can change, which means that you can come to a different conclusion at a later stage. But as I say, per today, with the quota size we have in the commercial area, it's not advisable and sustainable to let in more to fish on those quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1511	The Minister referred to catch statistics, and it is striking that there are surprising large catches all the way west of South Island. The crab scratches both inwards in the fjords and further westwards in Finnmark. Isn't it just a matter of time before you start expanding today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1518	We carefully monitor how the crab crab crabs, and about the dissertation fish that is, is effective enough for us to manage to stop it at the limit set. We're concerned that this is an introduced species, and it's not desirable for it to spread further. It is clear from the announcement that a research effort must be made to control and ensure that we constantly take into account the consequences of the arrival of the king crab. Then you have to see if there is a need to take further action if it is to be discovered that it is spreading further, and that the disinfestation fish is not enough as it is organised today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1523	Desimation fishing is good, but at the same time we know that prices relate to, for example. damage crabs and stuff like that is completely different. Therefore, it is important to have good support arrangements for desimation fishing, so that it works according to the intention. With the increase one is likely to see wandering westwards, does the Minister think one has a good enough framework for disembarkation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1528	We're going to follow this carefully, and we're going to do it in the future as well. Then we will come back if we believe there is a need to put in place further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1533	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1538	There is no doubt that the royal crab is a valuable resource for those who live off and will have their income from the sea. The fishermen have been plagued by king crabs, and where it has forced other fishing, it has to get quotas compensated for it. The limits of commercial fishing, mentioned here, happen to go between the municipality of Nordkapp and Måsøy. If you were living in North Cape when the borders were drawn, you would get the valuable king crab quota. But if they lived on the neighbouring island of Måsøy, or in the municipality of Måsøy, they only got scratches. This is a coincidence – an arbitrary boundary that is set, and it affects the Másøy community. And to show another example of how unreasonable this is, I can show that fishermen who fished in East Finland when the quotas were allocated also got quota. So they come, for example. from Northern Ireland, passing Másøy and can go and pick up its valuable quota in East Finland. This is an unreasonable system. Now we have had a golden opportunity to do something about this unfair and unfair system, and it's a mystery that the government parties won't do anything about it. And as Finnmark's representative, I also need to be in consultation with the Sameting, and I am very disappointed with the point that stands there, where I feel that they are actively countering the Måsøy fishermen. But there are several people working against it. The rapporteur of the case, Frank Bakke-Jensen, promised in the media, boldly and freely that if the Right came into position at the last big shot, he would fix the way for the Måsø fish. He would do so again lightly. Now we can read what case rapporteur Frank Bakke-Jensen says: ‘supports, however, the government’s view whereby the Måsø fish are not allowed to fish in the commercial zone on the grounds that any loss of income is compensated for by crab fisheries in the free zone; [[...]] [[...]] The fact that Frank Bakke-Jensen is leaving his promises in the media is not the first time, but that he even suggests that it is the Másøy fishermen who will trigger control problems, as stated in the comment in the setting, is nothing less than frank. Juks in the royal crab fish are well known in Finnmark. That's what's going on in the quota fisheries, and there's control measures to be put in place. The double communication that case rapporteur Frank Bakke-Jensen has been on his way from Finnmark to Stortinget is almost at Progress Party level, but I believe that it actually qualifies to apologize to the Måsøy fishermen, for it was promised that this would be resolved if they came into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1557	First of all, with the Másøy fishermen. It is not true that the limit has been set arbitrarily. There is a reason why the limit is set where it is set, and that is that there is continental shelf narrowest. Nature has given us a point where it is easy to set a limit and operate control. The base is narrowest there, and it goes out to the depths for the first time. That's the reason for it. So to what was said in the election campaign. I have to ask the representative Olsen to document from the media that I promised that quota to the Másøy fishermen. This is a matter that we have been working on for quite many years, and which I started with in my article. Six years ago, the picture looked a little different. The commercial fishing was so much more valuable than what you could earn from disembarkation fishing. Then the representative Olsen in Stortinget put his own party in government. Written questions were sent from the undersigned to the Minister for Fisheries Lisbeth Berg-Hansen as to whether she could assess the situation to the Måsø fishermen. The working party explained quite well that there was no reason for the Måsøy fishermen to have a share in the commercial quota. We promised that we'd take it up, and we've taken it up. The working party did not provide any new king crab management – this government has assessed it. We have our own chapter where we deal with the situation of the Másøy fishermen. It's also true that you can't just talk about the Másøy fishermen. There are several border municipalities. The fishermen in Kvalsund must also be entitled to such a quota in order to change the current management. Finally, today's disembarkation fishing is much more valuable than it was six years ago. I'm going to repeat what's the reason for that. First, there are more crabs available. Secondly, you now have a purchase in West Finland in line with what you have in East Finland. You buy live king crabs and now you fly it out of West Finland, so that the fishermen who are involved in the disembarkation fishing are doing the same valuable work as they are doing in the east. So for the example: in the disembarkation fish today, we feel that you come up with day catches of up to 2,000 kg of crab. So one day you're going to fish just as much in the west as you can get on a whole quota in commercial fishing. I think that's a good idea that the big difference in earnings as it was six years ago, it's actually not there today. Then it's important that you have a administration that's right. As far as check-ups are concerned, I have not said that it will increase if the Mashøy fishermen take part in this. But I have said that a traffic to and from and above the border has been a problem when it comes to cheating earlier. It'll also be a problem if you're going to have such a regime in the west.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1572	The case rapporteur, Frank Bakke-Jensen, should clarify whether he denies that he has spoken to the media and to fishermen in Måsøy that the Right would change this if they came into government. So to the Labour Party's position on this. That state councillor, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, sent out a message before the election that there would be a royal crab report, where she also pointed out that the situation of Måsøy was to be addressed. The proposal by the Workers' Party and the Central Party that exists here today to allow the Måsøy fishermen to participate on a limited scale is a step in the right direction to correct the disadvantages of the Måsøy fishermen. I believe that this shows that there has been a good job in the Workers' Party with this problem. In the case of fraud and where one says something about where the fraud is, it states in the preamble that the reason why one says no to Másøy is that ‘any loss of income is compensated by crab fishing in the open zone and that there would be major problems in controlling a cross-border fishing should be allowed’. It must be reasonable to assume that this problem would be greater if the Mashøy boats came in. It is very easy to interpret it as that it is a joke that is disputed by Másøy boats, and I think that is very unreasonable. I would like Frank Bakke-Jensen, as rapporteur on the matter, to clarify whether he has promised that the Right – if they joined the government – would change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1585	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1599	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1606	The notification to the Stortinget on Norway’s fisheries agreements is usually widely agreed during the proceedings of the Economic and Social Committee. This was also the case this time when the Committee examined the notification by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries of the fisheries agreements for 2015 and the fisheries implemented under the agreements in 2013 and 2014. It is an overall committee that is behind the position we are now discussing, and I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee for that. Norway splits up to 90pst. of the marine resources we harvest, with other countries. This means that it is very important to conclude good, forward-looking agreements. The Committee points out that the fisheries agreements are based on long-term administrative cooperation, which provides a basis for us today to reap from strong fish stocks and engage in economic activity in our marine areas and which also has a good impact on land. International cooperation is essential for successful and sustainable fisheries management and for combating, inter alia: fishing crime. The Committee also points out that Norway’s good reputation as a manager of large fish stocks gives us an advantage in other meetings and negotiations with nations with which we work. This position must be pursued by Norway in the future, and good resource control is an important element in this. There is reason to highlight Norway's work in international control cooperation, a cooperation between officials and industry, working together against illegal and unreported fishing. For my part, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Fisheries for the way it is worked. Another example of Norway’s good work is the participation of the Institute of Marine Research in the International Council for Marine Research, where the Institute of Marine Research contributes to both stock assessments and advice. Norway has significant scientific advantages and competences, contributing to a better use of resources — which in turn benefits both Norway and the countries with which Norway cooperates through different types of fisheries agreements. While it is important to have agreed agreements on populations we share with other countries, it is very important to be tough in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, and the Committee believes that the main focus is Norwegian interests. The relationship with Russia is challenging in various areas at the moment, and it is particularly positive that good, bilateral fisheries agreements have been negotiated with Russia in 2014 and now in 2015. With regard to the EU, the Committee has pointed out that Norway needs to continue cooperation with the EU with a view to the best management of the common stocks. Finally, a Joint Liaison Committee underlines the continuing need and importance of high priority for stock research. In such a priority, Norway will have a more precise basis for determining allowances and improving resource use. Increased stock research will also be able to generate growth and value added for industry in the future. I would therefore also like to point out that the State budget for 2015 was set at 10 million. extra to the Marine Research Institute to strengthen population research. An overall committee says that higher priorities are needed for stock research. Otherwise, reference is made to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1637	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that the Committee is highlighting the importance of good resource control. Promoting the sustainable management of living marine resources is one of the three overall objectives underlying Norway's participation in international forums. I am all the more happy to inform Stortinget that we have put in place both a new landing and closing note regulation and a new registration scheme for the smallest fleet. The special notification system, which operates electronically, is a modern solution and one of several tools to meet the need for good resource control over the years to come. The Committee promotes international control cooperation, where we also achieve results. Norway and Russia agree to continue their control cooperation, including: on a Joint Analysis Group, but also with measures to reduce discards of fish and projects to contribute to common guidelines for the conduct of inspections. The International Conference on Fishing Crime, which we organised in Tromsø last autumn, has received very good feedback, including from international participants, and is something we are planning to repeat. The objectives that I mention here are all contributing to our being able to achieve one of the other of our overall objectives: to ensure satisfactory control and enforcement in fisheries. The work being done in regional fisheries organisations and in the United Nations has an impact on our fisheries management at home. I therefore support the Committee’s view on the importance of Norway’s participation in this work. NEAFC extended the scope of port State control in 2014. Port State control is now fully in line with the International Port State Agreement negotiated under the FAO, which is yet another step in the right direction in terms of international control work. Another effect of our international work is that in 2014, Norway was able to resume fishing for mackerel in Norwegian waters after many years. Good stock research is important, and it is uplifting that the Committee also wishes to give high priority to this. Despite the fact that the current stock situation is good for several species, we have monitoring and research challenges related to increased population prevalence and increased activity along our coast. The government therefore strengthened the Marine Research Institute’s efforts to handle marine data of 10 million. kr in the 2015 budget, and in the treatment, Stortinget further strengthened its efforts by 10 million. kr for stock research. I have also created a new advisory panel where the aim is to get good input from the industry on research and stock monitoring. In addition, the government is committed to ensuring that society gets the most out of the resources used for marine research and monitoring. The marine research institute is in the process of assessing the future needs of marine data collection infrastructure, i.e. vessels, buoys, etc. Even I'm working on a master plan for marine research. There we will further develop the marine research policy and specify the marine research priorities. Both of these works will be completed during the coming harvest. I started by saying something about one of the main objectives underlying Norway's participation in international negotiations. I want to round off with the third and last main objective – which is to ensure Norway a fair share in the quota regulation of common regulated stocks. After many and long negotiations we finally got a tripartite agreement on mackerel, which is very positive. We will continue to work to ensure that all coastal states adhere to the agreement in the long term. There are also some challenges that remain in the negotiations on coal and herring agreements, where our negotiators are working to achieve goals. In recent years, there has been a process to change the framework for the Skagerrak agreement so that it becomes more in line with modern marine law. This has now resulted in a new agreement on Norwegian, Danish and Swedish fishing in Skagerrak, which was signed on 15 January this year. For the first time, there is now agreement with the Russians to introduce quota flexibility on cod and hake. At the same time, for the first time, we have reached agreement with Russia on the common total quota and the allocation of ugar in the Barents Sea. Both are important milestones in our long-term cooperation with Russia. There can be no doubt whatsoever that it is important for us to conclude agreed agreements. At the same time, we cannot conclude agreements at any price – in addition to being good agreements for Norway as a fishing nation, they must also be sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1665	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1679	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to up to three lines of reply following submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response following contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1690	Report. St. 25 for 2014–2015 On the right track, new tools are being put in place to achieve more coherent and efficient road development in our country. The three main elements of the notification to achieve this are the creation of a new road carrier, the framework for public–private cooperation and a toll reform which facilitates the transition from many to a few toll companies. Improved accessibility contributes to increased value creation and connects states and parts of countries in a new way. Good quality and good maintenance of roads are essential for both business and population throughout the country. The Committee is therefore concerned that more, better and safer roads need to be set up both in the districts and between regions and cities. It is interesting to recall that when the action rule was introduced in 2001, it was assumed that the increased scope of action provided for oil revenues would be used to strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, including: through infrastructure investments. For an overall committee, it is important to stress the need for greater predictability of development projects over time. Interruption is not very effective. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that a road reform as proposed by the government in the Communication will contribute to a more comprehensive road development with predictable funding. The same majority are pleased that a funding system is now in place in which planned and started projects can be implemented in the context. New funding opportunities and alternative forms of organisation create more predictability while increasing the rate of investment. Together, a newly created road carrier, predictable financing and use of OPS will be key elements in the renewal of Norwegian road policy. Because we are now seeing a renewal of Norwegian road policy, thanks to a new and offensive political majority. The red-green areas also recognize the need for change. But I am amazed that the country's largest opposition party has no new ideas to present for the future organisation of this sector. A Joint Committee is committed to stress that a good road network together with a well-developed and maintained railway is the very lifeblood of the terrestrial transport system. The carrier is proposed to be organised as a public limited-liability company. Development shall take place within the TEN-T road network, the largest European roads in Norway. The State Road Service shall continue to be responsible for the remainder of the national road network. It is through the roll-out of the NTP that the development portfolio of the company is determined. The majority of the Committee, the four cooperation parties, emphasise that the establishment of the road carrier facilitates cost-effective and rapid deployment. A more comprehensive and coherent development of the main road network is being achieved in Norway, while reducing planning time, providing predictable funding and establishing a road transport company with a pluralised profile in order to rig a more efficient European road development in Norway. The new strategic approaches help to strengthen value creation in our country and improve accessibility and safer roads for our citizens. Therefore, the establishment of the new road carrier provides added value in addition to traditional construction. The company’s portfolio is based on projects that were prioritised in NTP 2014-2023, with the addition of some intermediate road sections. In order to achieve a more comprehensive and coherent development, the majority consider it appropriate to include the intermediate road sections already at the start of the company. It is assumed that the portfolio will be gradually expanded and that the company can be given stronger financial muscles so that the company can gradually be given responsibility for several projects. It is important to stress that there must be consistency between the tasks entrusted to the company and the financial resources made available to the company. The road projects included in the start-up portfolio have been selected on professional premises and are at the same time a clear expression of taking seriously the objective of coherence and overallity. In order to achieve effective and targeted deployment, the majority support the company's expected end date for the start-up portfolio of 20 years after the company's establishment. Development will be financed through State resources and tolls. The company shall also be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the road it has built. The majority note that the government will continue to work on a comprehensive approach to the company's responsibilities for operation and maintenance, including funding. I record that the minority, the Workers' Party and the Centre, fear of professional fragmentation through the establishment of road companies and believe that the solution should be a separate project organisation within Vegvesenet, with commitments over several years for a selection of projects. Well, they almost have to go closer to this. The majority, the four cooperation parties, clearly state that the state road system will continue to be naved in Norwegian road development, responsible for the development of most roads to be built in the future. The carrier and the State Road Service will be two equivalent parties responsible for different road development tasks. It is important that one finds good border crossings, so that the total resources are used as best as possible. The majority are concerned that, through the establishment of the new road carrier, a good management of the human resources, which can ensure good competence both in the new company and in the state road system. Public-private cooperation, OPS, has proved to be a very useful form of development in terms of achieving a shorter extension period compared to the usual way. The criticism of OPS has been the way in which developers have had to finance the projects. Therefore, the majority are very satisfied that one is now adding to an adjusted OPS model by providing state guarantees for the expansion company’s borrowing. Using the country's creditworthiness lowers a borrowing rate. The majority support that the government considers using the same model for development also in the railway sector. The minority, the Working Party and the Centre Party express scepticism for the OPS model. The government is proposing a new toll reform aimed at reducing the number of toll companies. Furthermore, the issuer’s role must be separated purely organisationally and the government proposes the establishment of an interest-rate compensation scheme. An overall committee considers that there is an untapped potential for improving the efficiency of the toll sector and is concerned that a sheep for schemes that minimise the collection of car drivers’ payments is at the collection costs and is as feasible. The National Audit Office has also pointed out that there are economies of scale that have not been exploited well enough in the established toll management. The Committee supports the launch of efforts to create a system of fewer toll companies, a reorganisation that can contribute to increased professionalism in terms of collection and management. The Committee refers to the National Audit Office’s finding that the non-use of tolls has led to significant costs, which, according to the National Audit Office’s recommendation, should indicate that several road users are using tolls. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left, believe that toll bar should be optional, but nevertheless emphasise that there are administrative simplifications in the use of toll bar, which should provide different incentives for more drivers to make use of it. However, the majority believe that the requirement of mandatory toll bar would be detrimental to many. The minority, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, believe that the introduction of mandatory toll blocks for all vehicles above 3,5 tonnes is a step in the right direction, and believe that this should also be introduced for lighter vehicles to ensure that maximum tolls can be used. The majority, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left, are also concerned with giving the piece extended use, which could be an incentive to get more people to put it into use. The same majority supports the separation of the issuer role from the toll companies in order to contribute to more efficient operation and lower costs. The Committee has noted that the government is proposing an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans for established and new toll projects forming part of one of the new toll companies. Toll projects are covered by national roads, county roads and municipal roads. The compensation is intended as a scheme designed as an annual grant for the projects concerned for up to 15 years. The Committee refers to the response of the Council of State, where it appears that there is uncertainty relating to the calculation of the amount of the annual amount of this scheme. A rough estimate for the national road network amounts to about 2016. 600 million. kr. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party are pleased that the government is committed to a toll reform that can contribute to the more efficient organisation and operation of the toll collection. These look at the interest-rate compensation scheme as an incentive for established toll companies to enter the new companies. The members of the Workers' Party and the Centre are sceptical about the interest-rate compensation scheme, as it will not contribute to the development of the road. The members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Left do not take a position in principle on any interest-rate compensation scheme, as the appropriations for this purpose must be assessed in relation to the annual government budgets. Roads must be built faster and better. A new political majority translates the electoral will into concrete action. A new approach is now being taken to transport policy. I am pleased that the new bulk of the population has a completely different level of ambition for the transport sector, so that we can now bring about a comprehensive renewal of the sector. The political framework for road construction in Norway is now changing. It's about time. Without significant reforms, we are not creating a modern and traffic-proof road network. In 1962, Minister for Transport Bratteli presented the motorway plan, a plan for the construction of approx. 800 kilometers of four-field road, motorway, in South Norway by 1980. Similar plans were presented at the same time in Sweden. In Sweden the four fields were built, in Norway we built two fields. Safe and efficient roads contribute to growth that ensures the well-being of the future. It is investment in security and future value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1750	The government has presented a road reform in which the Christian People's Party and the Left support the main content, including: the establishment of a road carrier, including the use of OPS as a implementation and contract strategy, as stated in the notification, and some measures to improve the efficiency of toll collection. Many of them have already been mentioned in the adopted national transport plan, to which the rapporteur made a good presentation. During the examination of the national transport plan in 2013, the Right and Christian People's Party supported a proposal to transform the entire state road system into a road company. Now there is one road company on the side of the state road network the majority is in favour of, and my question to the representative Gruvan is: Do you want a split of the professional environments on the road that exist, and do you think this leads to more or less bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1757	We believe that by setting up a road company, we are creating a company with a very high profile towards the development of the main road network that we have missed in our country. In addition, we give this company some muscles other than what we have given earlier through that kind of expansion, by guaranteeing a predictable economy over several years. If we see how they have made clear road development abroad, not least in Austria, we see that predictability in terms of economics, as well as continuous expansion, has been one of the driving forces that have given them relatively much more road development than in Norway. We think that's the recipe as well when it comes to a bet on the way in our own country. That's why we think that kind of tip gives better results and that way also contributes to more value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1762	Now the Count did not answer my question. Because the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to transform the entire state road system, it's for the undersigned to believe that you want a different model than what you're with and get a majority for today. I repeat my question: does it seem appropriate to split up the professional environments that are building a road in Norway today, further, and does the representative Gruvan believe that there is more administration with the new model, or does he think that there will be less administration with the new model?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1767	Once we have agreed to this, it is precisely because we believe that this will be a more effective form of development, and – as I mentioned – we have examples from abroad that one has succeeded in this in a good way. The state road service will continue to be an important player. In this context, there has never been a discussion about turning the entire state road system into a road company. We think there is a need for both. There are two equivalent parties, and they get a clear dividing line as to what they are responsible for, and I think two professional environments – state owned, both of them – will be a positive growth in getting more speed on road development. I really think we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1774	I registered that the representative Gruvan did not want to talk about bureaucracy very much. We also see this in the position when we have asked about the costs associated with the establishment of the company – for both establishment, administration, pay and operation – that you are not willing to answer that question. I hope that the representative of Gruvan may be a little more clear when he is challenged if this does not increase bureaucracy, because that is due to a double establishment and that one splits up environments that already do not have too many competitors, to say the least, in the case of employees – whether they are engineers or planners. Does not the representative think that this is going to go beyond the initiative and that we are going to split up an environment, which means more bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1779	What I think you need to measure the results of a reorganization, as we've done here, with the creation of a separate road company, is how much new road we'll get in the future. Here I think we have very good examples and experiences from several other countries in Europe, where a separate company manages one type of road development, namely the road network. I refer again to Austria. I think the bureaucracy here will prove to be on the right level. You're not going to add up to a company with a lot of parallel functions. We have a good environment in the state road system. Here we want to establish a development company to handle development contracts and some detail planning. Here I think we can borrow from each other – the state road system and the new company – and I think the result will clearly show that here we get more built-up road and not more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1786	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1790	For the Workers' Party, road policy is one of the bones on which transport policy is based. Together with railways, maritime transport, public transport, corridors and bicycles, this constitutes the whole of it. Our national road network is the hearth of the national transport system that connects cities and parts of the country and connects Norway to neighbouring countries. This is part of the country's assets and a fully integrated part of a competitive business and employment. The relationship between mobility and economic development is not disputed. One thing is that the goods are going to the markets, but today, 87 pst is still happening. of the carriage of passengers by road. In our view, this transport is to be done with as few injuries as possible. The government has put forward a reform with something new and something old. The new is the road company and that the Progress Party is committed to the use of road tolls for the financing of roads and binds up the toll collection many decades ahead of time and over several collapse choices. The working party is concerned that the road sector is organised in such a way that the community gets the most out of the money. We want new and smart models to build a road, so we get more efficient road construction. We therefore look with a little wonder at the grip of establishing a new state road company. The proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party in the treatment of the National Transport Plan was to transform the entire state's roadway into a limited liability company. Now a company is to be set up on the side, which is to do exactly the same as the State Road Service already does, but on a limited selection of routes. In addition, they are not given the heavy authority tasks performed by the State Road Administration, nor are they required to address the major urban problems, as reported in the Communication. It provides increased administration and binds up more resources, resources that could instead be used to build more roads. We cannot see that there are any advantages in breaking up responsibility for the national road between two actors, nor can we see that there are good, professional arguments for this in the big news. The working party believes that there is a need to implement the development, operation and maintenance of the national road network even more effectively, but it is important to carry out proper analysis before making the changes. The government itself writes in the notice that the State Road Administration is an effective implementation organisation. Therefore, unlike the government, the Workers' Party would rather strengthen the State Road Service, which already has competence and experience in implementing large-scale road development. The Workers' Party will therefore ensure that the State Road Service can govern the development of national road projects in the same way as the proposed road company, so that it does not create a new, duplicated company, split up the professional environment and compete for limited road skills, engineers and planners. We believe that these are good arguments for more portfolio-driven progress on large projects, such as: on the free E39, the largest and most continuous road project in our time. Another element of the government’s road reform is greater commitment to public–private cooperation, referred to as OPS, in the field of road development. Traditionally, OPS contracts have been such that the State pays private companies over 20-30 years to finance, build and maintain public roads or construction. It has been described as a ‘heel in hat’ by a former State Secretary, so that the magnification representative again. Of course, the working party wishes to welcome new and smarter models for building and maintaining roads, so that we get more efficient development, but we are sceptical to traditional OPS deployment and believe that OPS projects are not a forward-looking, modern way of financing transport projects. The Labour Party believes that private debt financing of the road is poor management of the Community's money and that private financing of public road facilities provides greater financial costs, which ultimately have to be paid by the Community. We want new forms of contract that make it more possible for innovative solutions and better interaction between the state as a builder and the contractors, who are given the task of carrying out the investments. The third element of the government's road reform is a so-called toll reform. The Workers' Party supports the use of tolls, not because we want to plague people, but because there is a gap between those who use the road, and the authorities, which allows the community to expand more roads faster. The working party is concerned that it should be as effective as possible when we charge tolls, so that the drivers get the most way back for each crown they pay when passing the toll stations. We therefore welcome the government's commitment to measures to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the tolling sector and the follow-up of the decisions taken by the Government on this subject from the national transport plan. Here, the key elements for improving the efficiency of this sector are the merging of toll companies and the coordination of tariff and discount systems, which will reduce administrative costs and improve the efficiency of operation. That's very good. But the Workers' Party believes that here the government could have gone even further in improving the efficiency of the toll collection. Compulsory tolling is the measure itself which results in the greatest reduction in collection costs. We also read a small desperate attempt from the Progress Party to decorate the fact that they are in government for tolls and tie up the toll collection for many decades and generations to come with this message. The government is proposing an interest compensation scheme for toll loans, which the Christian People's Party and the Left have, interestingly enough, chosen to be outside. The working party is very sceptical about the government's proposal for the interest compensation scheme. Unfortunately, it is just another and far more bureaucratic method of granting money. But no further path will be built for the means that the government grants to this scheme. In fact, the interest-rate compensation scheme implies that there will be less total funding for the construction of new and important roads for the community, at least if the government is to abide by the rule of action, which they carry out in the notification. Summary: The Labour Party has many thoughts about improving the road sector, but not as the rapporteur describes the Workers' Party's thoughts about what is happening on our roads. We want to organise the road sector in such a way that the community gets the most out of the money. We say no to solutions that cost and create more administration. The working party says yes to new and smarter models to build a road, so that we get more efficient road construction and more money. We say no to OPS as financing solution. We in the Workers' Party will strengthen the State Road Service, which already has competence and experience in implementing large-scale road development, and we will ensure that the State Road Service can manage portfolio development of national road projects through specific priority projects, for example, if it continues as a budgetary option in the future. We say no to establishing a road company, to shared responsibility, new borders and increased administration. The working party will have the most effective collection of tolls, so that the drivers get the best possible way for each crown. So we also say no to the government's interest compensation scheme, which means that there will be less money to build a new road, and not what we want: roads across the whole country, which connects our cities, the parts of the country, and connects us to neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1820	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1823	In 2011, Mr Navarsete, Minister of Transport of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV, said: ‘We need a system reform’. When we took over in 2013, nothing had yet happened. We saw no new and smart ideas – as Kjerkol pointed out from the pulpit. The Norwegian model was complex development and unincorporated financing. This also seemed to be an eel’s opinion, and BT’s leader on 16 April said: ‘A new company can solve some of the major challenges in Norwegian road construction’. And the Minister of Transport shows strong willingness to reform a rather rigid and old-fashioned sector. Can the representative Kjerkol share the opinion on the need for reform – a system reform for an over-ripe road sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1832	The red-green government did a lot on the way. It made it pleasant for a new regime to come in and take over the baton and be as ambitious as the previous one, when they said they wanted to comply with the NTP adopted by the Storting in June 2013. Some new ways were also put in place to finance infrastructure projects, road projects and railway projects, including through: schemes with priority projects providing predictable funding, in the sense that the Storting makes its own decisions, it is its own organisations, and it has seen greater predictability and commits at a certain level the Storting up to repeat the allocation the following year. These are ways of financing what the government has put into its reform now, so it's a little strange to me that the representative Eidsheim characterises it as poor thoughts and little innovation. The carrier follows the same logic as for priority projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1841	The representative of Kjerkol mentioned several times that she wanted the best way for the money. It was built in 2006 10.7 km of motorway in Norway. In 2013, despite the fact that the red-green government increased the appropriations for road purposes, only 10.6 km of motorway was built. One of the reasons for this is that the costs have been incurred, and we have heard from contractors that as much as 1/3 of the costs of the road projects have been incurred in the installation, rigging and dismantling of equipment, because they have not had long enough distances or predictable funding. The working party obviously believes that if the medicine doesn't work, you just have to increase the dosage. Increased appropriations and continuing as before is the answer, and they refuse to look at the organisation. How will the Workers' Party reduce the costs of road construction by continuing on the same track, which provides for more than a doubling of costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1848	The costs of road projects have increased, and they will probably also increase in the time to come. The State of Norway is a very predictable customer in this market. We plan for 10 years at a time, and it is very well known in the market what to do – if you assume that the government will keep it. The previous government was very clear on a few things. We were going to build more coherently, and we were going to plan more coherently. Among other things, in my home country, the road and path between Trondheim and Steinkjer were explored continuously, properly enough with different funding on the road and track, but a complete expansion. What is now happening to the government's establishment of the state road company is that road section is breaking up. Part of it is left to the road company, while the state road service is given the task of expanding what is not priority, and as such it becomes less complete and more pieceful and divided.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1855	I have a little trouble getting to grips with what kind of renewal of the transport sector in terms of road development, the Workers' Party here is turning into spokespersons for. The previous period, in the context of NTP, the concept of ‘special priority projects’ was introduced. That term I see is also used in the notes this time. What it all turned out to be was that they were entered in the budget with their own entry, and then it was called project funding – no other means, one is still dependent on annual budgetary decisions. Is this what the representative of Kjerkol believes is the renewal that the Workers' Party wants to contribute to in the development of the tribal road development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1862	Unlike the representative of Gruvan, I will do him the honour of answering the questions. His reservations against priority projects I must say amaze me a little, because it was actually a unanimous transport committee that pointed to projects that were suitable for this type of organization and funding, and that pustility on the progress of it – and the Christian People's Party was one of the parties that was involved in it. In addition, we say that the State Road Service can operate the same type of portfolio management as the majority have intended for the road company to do. There's nothing wrong with that. We have, like the majority, sympathy for that way of driving the projects forward. We believe that if the State Road Administration could have negotiated with government and big business, for example. The progress of the E39 could have optimised the ways in which we both rig the investments and also operate and maintain them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1871	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1874	Let me first start by thanking the rapporteur for a clean and good job in the work on the message and the settings. I would also like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, although we obviously do not agree on all parts of this message. Report. St. 25 for 2014–2015, On the right track, represents a milestone in Norwegian transport policy. For the first time in many years, substantial efforts are being made to reduce planning time and build faster. Looking at developments in Norwegian road construction, we can establish the following: we have too long planning time. It takes on average approx. ten years to plan a road project. Secondly, we have a lack of predictability. Projects are structured in pieces and divided rather than in a coherent and comprehensive way, and there is a lack of predictability in funding. It's not an effective way to plan and build a road. Thirdly, we have a neglected maintenance. The maintenance run on the road network is formidable and has increased every year until now. I think there is a relatively large consensus that these are key challenges in Norwegian road construction. The opposition, which until October 2013 had government responsibility, also appears in its comments to recognise that these are challenges and ‘are open to, and want to welcome, new and smarter models for road construction’. [[...]] But there is a stop to the constructive approach. Rather than making concrete suggestions on how to build the road faster, the Workers' Party and the Centre are only concerned with criticising the solutions proposed by the government. They therefore agree with the diagnosis, but lack their own solutions. Increased investment on the road often ends in a discussion of how much money we spend for different purposes. It's important. Without adequate appropriations, there is not enough road to be built either. In its budgets for 2014 and 2015, the government has pledged both on the road and on the road. This escalation means that we are in front of the form to overfill the NTP, both in dollars and in the number of projects. In addition, we have raised the commitment to maintenance, which means that for the first time in several decades we reduce the maintenance run, both on the highway and on the railway. Where the decay increased under the red-green regime and we actually had a real decline in the funds available for maintenance, we now see a positive development and a reduced lag. Increased appropriations, however, are not enough. We also need to make sure that we get as much money back as possible by reducing the planning time – a halve is the goal – and building faster and smarter. And that's what this message is essentially about. How can we best use the means we use for transportation purposes? The previous government boasted that it was spending more money than they promised, building less roads than they promised. This government is going to measure how much we're building, not just how much money we're using. The message defines three main actions — firstly the establishment of a road development company, secondly the increased use of public–private cooperation, OPS, and thirdly a toll reform. The establishment of a development company is an important step in creating greater predictability and achieving more holistic, coherent and rational development. The company is being financed with a share of the road tax and public budget appropriations. In addition, the company may use tolls in the financing basis. The company will also have a limited loan facility, which could help to ensure steady progress during the construction period. The development company will have a start-up portfolio that mainly includes important transport corridors in and between our most populous areas and where there is mainly a basis for four-field roads. It means important distances on both E18, E39 and E6. The portfolio is approx. 130 B.C.E. kr measured in today's value and to be expanded within a 20-year perspective, or preferably faster. Prioritisation of the routes to be allocated to the company will take place in the NTP process. Thus, the road carrier will be seen in conjunction with the overall priorities of the national transport plan, and we will ensure a good balance, for the benefit of the whole country. Since the company will be responsible for longer and continuous sections, it will be up to the company itself to define the order of development. The policy will focus on the overall priorities that professionals are building on. It is also important that the company has total responsibility. It will stimulate smart choice of solutions, providing a good economy in a life-cycle perspective. I record that the opposition is concerned that the establishment of a road company will lead to a fragmentation of the trade unions. I don't think there's any reason for that. We'll have two qualitatively good trade unions building roads that will challenge each other in a positive way and stimulate innovation. And then it's important that these professional environments also cooperate where it's natural. The opposition is also concerned about increasing red tape. But why would that be? After all, the number of employees has to be scaled up according to the tasks to be undertaken and the portfolio of employees in the company at all times, while the choice of contract form will also have an impact on the number of employees the company will need. There should also be no parallel organisations. When the Road Service gives up responsibility for a stretch, they don't have to have anyone working on it. When the company is given responsibility for complete and coherent sections, it will be easier to dispose of its own resources efficiently compared to the piece-by-part thinking for which the red-greens have been exponents for many years. Public-private cooperation, or OPS, has proved to be an effective implementation strategy. Seeing planning, implementation and maintenance in conjunction over a 25-year period will stimulate smarter investment solutions from a life-cycle perspective. We have a good example of this from the construction of the route between Klett and Orkanger, where the contractor was early in choosing LED lighting, simply because it gave a better operating economy. This is not a big deal, but it illustrates the point. OPS is an implementation strategy. By outsourcing road sections to a private operator that is also responsible for operation and maintenance, the risk of overruns is transferred to the private operator and the State will have a predictable standard on the road during the contract period. This also means that the company will have strong incentives to implement the project as quickly as possible. I record again that the opposition still refers to the disadvantages of private financing for road development, and that the state pays down above, for example. 25 years. So either the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre have not read the big message, or they will not understand it. The model to which the government now submits is to cultivate OPS as an implementation strategy by paying the principal weight of the contract amount early in the contract period, after completion of the road. In this way, the disadvantage is reduced by private financing more expensive than the state, while at the same time taking out all the benefits of OPS as an effective implementation strategy – that is, the best from two worlds. We have the tradition of establishing one toll company per road project. This has led to the fact that today it is approx. 60 toll companies in Norway. We want to reduce the number of toll companies to approx. three to five incorporated companies. The aim is to facilitate increased professionalisation, reduce administrative and financing costs and facilitate increased user-friendliness for the drivers. Once we have chosen to use tolls as an important element in the financing of road projects, it is only fair and reasonable that we also facilitate that the drivers experience the scheme as fair and easy to deal with. An important step to achieve this is to separate the issuer role from the toll company and to facilitate more commercial issuers. Here you can find a variety of solutions that will make everyday life easier for the drivers. The government also has an ambition to establish an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. It is a tool to reduce fares or reduce the amount of depreciation to the benefit of the drivers. It will also be an important element to stimulate the pooling of toll companies, as it is a condition for accessing the scheme. I record that we were not able to clarify all the principal aspects of it now, but we are going to take it back in the context of the 2016 state budget. Finally, it is unnatural to talk about a road reform without getting into the hub of Norwegian road construction. The state road system is naved in the road construction today and will be in the future as well. Even if we establish a road company, the main gravity of the NTP projects will still be implemented by the State Road Administration. That's why it's important to clarify that this means that we're still going to have a strong state road service. Instead of having a professional environment dedicated to road construction, we will now have two professional environments, which complement and challenge each other, and which will cooperate where appropriate. The sum of the grips presented in this message, along with the good professional environment we have in the State Road Service, will in the years to come help us use our travel money smarter. This is not a magic formula for more money, but it's a good grip to build a more effective road than we do today, and it's not one day too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1918	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1922	In this case there are several things, one being OPS. The representative was inside in his post, and was a little abandoned because the Workers' Party did not get what you really mean. Then the representative will have the opportunity to elaborate on it, so that we can understand it a little bit better. At least we know very well both the Advance Party and the Right previous view of OPS, which has been very different. In this case, it says that you want to use OPS as an implementation strategy, but then you write on in the same note: «The majority consider it important to use instruments to reduce the financing costs of OPS companies.» And then it's said that you're going to grab hold of it so it's going to be shorter periods where you borrow. I'm still in doubt. Is that how you want to initiate OPS with or without funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1934	I think what's in the big news is the policy we're making for future OPS projects. What is important for us to point out and make a model for now in this process is that OPS should be an implementation strategy. OPS has many positive aspects to reduce costs and foreseeable maintenance, and one actually achieves to realize many projects more quickly. Getting these elements embedded in Norwegian transport policy I think is a good way to work. And then that's the question of funding. The way we put it into this big message and in future OPS project means that most of the settlement related to investments will come relatively soon after the completion of the project, nor will there be a large loan need for 25 years, e.g., as was the case with the previous OPS project. The model that is now being used reduces the financial burden that may lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1941	We have then understood correctly that you must have a model of funding, but with shorter funding time, so the Progress Party has also moved in this matter – we note it. The question is then if you do not want a funding model: it is under test now a so-called development contract that was signed last week on Helgeland, where the funding bit has been taken out, as far as the Progress Party was concerned earlier, and as we believe in this case, too – and then I wonder what is the big difference between a development contract and the OPS model to which you refer, because if you do not want to have the OPS model that was previously agreed, which was very expensive for all parties, it must be reasonable to look at something that is more reasonable. So I'm a little curious about how to describe the difference between the model we're now trying out with development contracts and the new OPS model that you want to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1948	The attempt we are now making with development contracts is an exciting attempt, simply because it can be a forward-looking and good way to think about looking at longer distances collectively and seeing investment, operation and maintenance in the context. It has many common features with what we find in a OPS model. But at the same time, in an OPS model, you involve a private operator in this contract, and the private operator will take risks. What we see in a lot of contexts is that it's actually a good thing for the state as well. The company concerned will face risks for development, operation and maintenance, e.g.: during a 25-year period. This risk transfer means that the contractor in question, the actor, will have a large incentive both to implement projects more quickly and to provide smarter solutions. I think that the most important difference between these two models is probably the risk transfer we see in that private taking risks to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1953	I want to go back to the establishment of the road company. We now see that you land and beach around to get the location, and you have great views of how many employees there are in the company, hundreds of employees. It has to cost, and it has to be demanding to have two parallel environments. I would like to ask the local representative directly: How many employees should this company have? Is it true, as you say, that you're speculating in 200-300 employees and more, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1960	Had I known the answer to that, I would have applied for jobs and perhaps tried to get me another job, but I should not. What's important here is that when we create a road company, it's because we want to build more efficiently, and we're making it easier to build more efficiently. We create greater predictability both economically and also by thinking about longer continuous distances and creating greater predictability within a larger deployment portfolio. It does – I am quite convinced – that we will be able to build projects more efficiently, and a more effective both planning, construction, operation and maintenance will mean that we need fewer people, not more people. So this company is not just going to come as an addition to the State Road Service, it's going to be a supplement to the State Road Service, and that will mean that the number of employees will have to follow the projects, that's the most important thing. We won't be able to employ more people in these companies than the projects need to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1967	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e1970	The Progress Party promoted proposals on its own road carrier in 2007. The proposal was slaughtered by both opposition, position and then Minister of Transport and was supported only by representatives of the Progress Party. On this basis, on behalf of the party, I am very proud that the government has now presented several different actions to make the development of the road network faster and more efficient. One of the grips presented in the notification is the establishment of a separate road development company. Through more comprehensive, coherent development, combined with more long-term and predictable funding, the development company will be able to deploy the main road network more quickly. I mentioned earlier that there are three main areas that are left in our communication effort. One is maintenance. The next one is planning. The third point is reform work – the reason we are here today. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to give some praise to the red-green people that they in their reign also invested in transportation. The increased appropriations for road purposes — from 12 billion. NOK 21 billion in 2006 to be proposed. kr in 2014. It is good, and it has shown that they have also had the will to invest more in transportation. But even though the will has been there, it has obviously lacked some ability. What were the actual results of this initiative? That's what has to be interesting, and not just that you can boast that you've spent more money. It's like coming home after shopping at the store and boasting that you have spent all the money, but have not brought all the goods home. I don't think that's much to brag about. There is much to be found in the annual reports to the State Road Administration, and in 2006 we can read that it opened the 10.7 km quadruple motorway. However, with almost doubling of the appropriations for road purposes, no more than 10.6 km of quadruple motorway was opened in 2013. This should have caused the warning lights of the red-greens to blink, but it has obviously not worried them. In 2006 it cost NOK 125 000 per running meter of four-field motorway, while in 2014 it cost NOK 275000 per running meter of four-field motorway. This includes, inter alia: a result of long road construction in Norway, the need for contractors to deal with annual appropriations and the fact that most road sections are split into small sections. It's obvious that changes are necessary, and we can't solve everything just by providing increased appropriations. We also need to grab hold of how we organize ourselves. We have to think new when it comes to planning, when it comes to design, and when it comes to implementation. A road development company with a more predictable, sufficient and long-term funding base will ensure that we get more weight for each krona being invested. In the start-up portfolio of the development company, the government has committed to a faster expansion for more of the projects than foreseen in NTP 2014-2023, while at the same time we have committed several projects that were not in the NTP but that are naturally linked. Better roads ensure that electricians, carpenters, goods and commuters arrive faster, which is both socially profitable and better for the climate. From a climate point of view, it is not about not building a road, it is primarily about what is going on up the road, and about how the road is designed. We're not going to stop building roads. On the contrary – we need to build more, better and smarter. The next generation of vehicles is going to be nearly zero-emission, and then it makes no sense not to invest any more in infrastructure. The average car on Norwegian roads is currently a 2004 model, which emits 180 grams of CO2 per km. The average emissions for new cars sold in 2015 are slightly above 90 grams of CO2 per km, i.e. about half of the emissions. When we renewed the car fleet in 2025 so that the average car is a 2015 model and not a 2004 model, it will have a major impact on local emissions. If we are able to combine this with better roads that lead to fewer traffic accidents, better traffic flows, less driving and fewer local emissions, we will have a better functioning society. Before, the most important thing has been to put in place a new bridge or tunnel or to upgrade a few kilometres of the motorway from two fields to maybe three fields, then lead the main road back into towns and cities, where the road has always gone. We are engaged in directing the heavy goods vehicles and transit traffic away from local traffic, away from playgrounds, kindergartens and schools, and on highways without roundabouts and mass traffic. This will provide better traffic flows and lower local emissions. If we're going to do that, however, we need to start thinking new, taking new grips and planning to build bigger and more holistically. Another important point to be adopted today is a toll reform. 90 new toll stations and 97 billion. Tolls – that’s what the red-green government adopted in the National Transport Plan in the summer of 2013, just before it went off. Some of the toll projects would have incurred operating costs of more than DKK 10 per pass-by. For the last four years under red-green rule, the toll debt has doubled to over 35 billion. kr. It says a little about a toll usage out of control. In the government, the Progress Party has already had the advantage of removing some of the bomb projects, we have reduced the rates in about 20, and with today's decisions more are in progress. A result of our fight to reduce tolls is extra good at the E18 in Vestfold, where there was initially a tariff of NOK 112, while it is now at NOK 57 per pass. The progress party went to the elections to cut tolls. With today's mass numbers, where you don't get a majority to remove all the tolls, we have to negotiate and compromise. And in that situation, we can reduce tolls and cut operating costs. It makes no sense to have 50-60 toll companies, when their only task is to collect tolls. With today's decisions, we want to stimulate a sharp reduction in the number of bomb companies, so that operating, administrative and financing costs will be reduced. This reduction will benefit drivers, either in the form of small tolls, shorter downtime or higher discounts for those who choose to use bombs. I record that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party point out that they also want a toll reform, and that they have addressed this in the NTP. That's true, but the differences are significant. They wanted a county reform, with 19 bomb companies, while not having a single solution to ensure that companies actually want to participate in the toll reform. They have not promoted a single proposal to stimulate bombers to participate voluntarily in the toll reform, while we have proposed an interest-rate compensation scheme. We want it to give an incentive to the bomb companies by allowing the state to pay some of the bomb companies' borrowing costs if they choose to become part of the reform. For many companies, this can be a huge saving. Earlier this year, VG could show that you can get up to 30 pst. a discount on some projects with government proposals. Rogfast, a tunnel project in Rogaland and part of the ferry-free E39, would get a bomb fare of nearly 350 kroner with red-green assumptions. With the toll reform and the full interest compensation scheme, the fare can fall below NOK 200. So the red-greens have no proposals, and their toll reform would break – if that was what we were going to adopt today. If you want well-functioning and efficient bombers to join others, it has to be because it's a carrot for them – a small bonus. In 1962 we had, as the rapporteur mentioned, something called the National Motorway Plan. Former governments have put this in a drawer. We bring it forward as part of the forthcoming national transport plan, and the road company will become an important instrument for us in achieving the objective of an efficient high-speed motorway network for Norway. With the Progress Party in government, we will now have a road development company in place to ensure more comprehensive planning and development of major road projects and more efficient use of taxpayers' money, and we will see that the toll burden goes slowly, but surely in a better direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2020	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2023	In the past, the Progress Party was very opposed to tolls. They spoke against it, and they voted against it every time they had a chance to do so, both in local and regional political bodies – and not least here in the Chamber. After we got a government with the Progress Party in, and who also has a Minister of Transport from the Progress Party, the representatives of the party vote for tolls. But the Progress Party is still talking about ending the use of tolls to finance road construction. My question to the representative will then be: The new road company will have 20 years to build these projects, and the tolls will have to be by 2050. What time does the Progress Party think that tolls will end here in the country – or highway robbery, as they have also called it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2032	The Progress Party has been very offensive in building more roads, and it is no secret that if the Progress Party had managed this country alone, the representative would have seen even more money going on, even more money for rail – and no toll – simply because as a party we believe that we should save a little less in oil wealth and a little more in real estate in Norway. So it's like we're sitting and negotiating and agreeing with three other parties, and then we've got a far bigger movement than the red-green, and we've got a toll percentage that's lower than the red-green added. With today's case, with road companies and toll reform, we're going to build more roads than the red-green plans, and we're going to have a lower toll share. Then I think it's better to sit in the position and be with and influence things in the right direction rather than sitting in the opposition – as the Progress Party did for 40 years – without getting through a single toll project and just seeing that the toll cost for Norwegian drivers grew sky high under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2042	I have not asked an extra question, because I expect that I could ask the first question again, because I did not think I would get an answer. So I ask again, what time does the Progress Party mean that we're going to end tolls here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2049	There is no doubt that we in the Progress Party believe that tolls are a little effective way to finance our infrastructure efforts. But we note that this is a solution that an overwhelming majority of people will have. Then it is, I think, at least happy that we can be in position, and that through the big message that has been promoted today, we have a number of measures, such as the interest compensation scheme, such as toll reform, as a new road company, which will ensure that the toll share in road projects will be reduced. More money will go to work, and then of course we will run a new election campaign in 2017 to reduce the amount of toll. As I mentioned in my post, VG said we could get up to 30 pst. reduction of tolls under this scheme. If the Progress Party with 16.3 pst. is capable of getting 30 pst in digestion. reduction in tolls, it's just the imagination that sets limits on what we can do in the next choice if we get bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2056	I record that the Progress Party has given up the fight against tolls. Now it's more about smarter ways to charge tolls. But I'm going to repeat the question from the previous replicator: When will it end with tolls with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2061	I am very pleased that the Centre Party has now been occupied with tolls. We're very concerned about it, because we think it's about respect for taxpayers' money. With today's government, the appropriations are up-to-date. We've invested more in transportation, and we've reduced tolls. In 2013, the majority of the population adopted an NTP adding up to an increase of 97 billion. kr in tolls for the next ten years – such an increase that the centre party had to ask questions about how much toll they had actually decided for the next ten years, because they had no control. With the Advance Party in government, we're not going to get rid of all the tolls in this period, but we're going to make a difference. We'll reduce the toll to Norwegian drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2068	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2071	The centre party will develop a modern and forward-looking transport system in which traffic disruption becomes simpler, faster and safer. It will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of industry, shrinking distances between parts of the country and contributing to regional enlargement and improving the urban environment. For the Central Party, transport and business policies are closely linked. With good transport investment, the basis for value creation along the coast, within the country and in all parts of the country is laid. Industry, fisheries, aquaculture, food production, tourism, mining and petroleum are all industries located around the country and many have a long way to the markets. These industries are important for the economy of Norway and create local jobs. By investing in a transport system that makes the flow of goods better interconnected, a system that gets more goods on the keel and track, we contribute to economic development, road safety and good climate policies. The centre party is concerned that the road sector should be organised in such a way as to give the Community the best possible means of money and with minimum red tape. As the National Transport Plan 2014–2023 put forward, the Senterpartiet wants new and smarter models to build roads, so that we get an efficient development. Several of the measures that the government is now calling reforms of different kinds are solutions that we presented in the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023: streamline planning processes, toll collection and facilities to ensure predictable financing and rational implementation of large infrastructure projects by establishing a mechanism for specific priority projects reducing the number of toll companies to achieve a more coherent deployment of longer distances, so as to improve resource efficiency through coordination, which will in turn result in more efficient use of resources through overall planning and implementation of timely coordinated actions; The big difference is that the blue-blue splits up and establishes companies, while we believe that this could have been solved through existing companies. Here it tastes of the emperor's new clothes! We look at the solution that the government has chosen with amazement. The launch was a national road company, but is a road company for a few parts of the country and for the TEN-T network. It is based on weak professional assessments that will duplicate many of the tasks of the State Road Service, increase bureaucracy and bind up resources that should instead have been used to build more roads. It is critical that the government cannot explain how many employees the new development company should have and what administrative costs it incurs for the establishment, remuneration and operation of the company. The Central Party recalls that today’s highway is financed by government budget appropriations, tolls and loans. The government’s road reform does not change that, but determines that budgetary policy is based on the rule of action for the use of oil money. We believe that instead of establishing a new company, breaking up the trade union environment and competing for limited road skills, engineers and planners, the State Road Service should be strengthened and given the same conditions and opportunities as the planned road company. Let the State Road Administration have portfolio management and grant funds over several years. The Centre Party and the Red-Green Government adopted the system of specific priority road projects in the current National Transport Plan, with their own Roman Numeral Decision, their own project organisations and commitments over several years. It considers that the Centre Party would provide good predictability in terms of road development. The centre batch considers that it is unclear how operations and maintenance are to be carried out and that there is a risk that this piece will be picked up and carried out in a less complete manner. The lot of the centre assumes that the projects within the national transport plan will receive appropriations in line with the plan and that appropriations for new projects other than NTP will be added. We again point out that this is not a national road carrier – until it is the geographical bias of the road carrier’s portfolio and has not been through normal democratic treatment. The Central Party believes that the State should have overall responsibility for the development of roads in Norway. Loans financed by state-owned road projects should therefore be guaranteed by the State, and I am making proposals in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2113	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2118	The centre party had the three previous transport ministers before Solvik-Olsen when they were in government from 2005 to October 2013. What characterized the transport policy in these years was that the planning time was long, we've expanded piece by piece and divided, and we've seen that the maintenance run has increased. My question to the centre party is: is the centre party satisfied with this development since they only criticize what we are proposing, and do they have their own solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2123	The last national transport plan provided for a simplification of planning processes through several interventions, following a sample set down by the then Minister of Transport, Meltveit Kleppa. There was a great deal of agreement that there was a need to do so, and it was followed up by decisions in the handling of the transport plan in 2013. We also thought that there was a need to improve the efficiency of development, to look at longer distances and to add new forms of contract and also to arrangements for specific priority projects. So I think the measures we put into the national transport plan were good and should have been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2128	Since it's become a habit here to ask the same question several times, so maybe I can also try: is the Center Party satisfied with the developments they saw when they were in government? Because we still have a situation, after the legacy they delivered, with long planning time, piece by piece and divided development and maintenance kits increasing. I do not think the answers given by the representative of Nordås are very satisfactory, because it is only a small one in relation to the national transport plan. What action did the Center Party take when they were sitting in the government offices – and perhaps still in the drawer? What major action would they make to lift the transport sector into a completely different – call it – division, or get a real change of pace? I have some problems getting my eye on it, but I would like to receive a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2135	You might read what you want to read. Because I believe that what is contained in the national transport plan is quite a grip, with which we wanted to improve the sector, among other things. to reduce planning time and to improve overall development. We specifically promoted the project as a single operation, new forms of contract as another operation, and there are several types of measures that we thought were the right measures to come along with – in addition to overfilling two national transport plans, which were a requirement of many. There was a steady escalation, which the contractors wanted us to have, and it has now led us to see a lot going on around the country, both in the road sector, in the railway sector, in ports and in aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2141	We've talked a lot about NTP. NTP is just a plan, and that means that as NTP has been treated up to now, when a new government came in, one had to fight to get funds from year to year. I record the state road service's view of building up and building up, that one of the reasons it was just that you didn't know if you got money in the budget next year to keep going. The central party was placed at the power of the department for eight years. The Progress Party has always been for long-term budgeting just to avoid building up and building up and building up and building down, climbing, 2 kilometers, etc. Is the Central Party now on the right track thinking about long-term budgeting, just to be able to build more holistically, as the representative said here in the previous row?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2148	The first thing that is important here is the specific projects on which one could have one's own organisation and follow-up through annual appropriations, ensuring that the needs of the projects were followed up. It was a grip that I believe was right, and that should have been developed further. So I also believe that it would have been important to have a little more long-term funding over several years. It suggested the Center Party, but it didn't have a majority for it. However, we see that the road company established with the portfolio is not a national road company. Nor has it been phased in in such a way that appropriate funding is provided for the projects within the portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2155	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2158	I would like to begin by thanking the case rapporteur for a good and thorough work on the position and for the fact that we have managed to gather a majority around what I believe is a smarter and faster and more reasonable way of building a road. We have to do that. We need to build a path that is smarter, faster and fairer. These reforms that we are about to adopt now, I think I agree to ensure this. We get more tools in the box when we're going to expand infrastructure. It's positive. It is also very positive that we have more professional environments, so that we can increase the level of innovation in the areas of technology, planning and implementation of road projects. It'll pay off financially. It will also pay off professionally, I guess, because several professional environments think better than one. The last time we were in government, Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm started working to modernise and organise road development in Norway, so that we could get more money. The left, together with the other three civil parties, has been working since 2005 to follow this up and find new solutions for financing, planning and road development. One of the solutions is public–private cooperation. OPS may be a wise way to build, operate and maintain roads. We think we can get more money that way. The OPS strategy is an important element of road reform. One of the other solutions is the establishment of a road company that is responsible for the development of individual national road sections. We think it's a right move to build faster, smarter and fairer. At the same time, as mentioned, we get a new professional environment. It is absolutely necessary to increase creativity and competition in the road sector. It is also positive that multi-annual funding is provided to the road carrier. It is also given to infrastructure companies that we establish in the context of the railway reform. I also need to stress that the reform we are making in the road sector is not intended to shift the relationship between investment and public money use between public transport and rail on the one hand and road on the other. This relationship has to be determined in the national transport plan, and the majority of the Grand Duchy wants climate objectives to be the leader in this work. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important that we build a road. It is particularly important for the creation of value throughout the country. Road reform helps to support this. I also need to go into the details of a case, and that is that parts of the committee want to make the toll bar mandatory on vehicles below 3500 kg. We're sceptical about this and we're in the majority who want this to be optional. Many people do not travel very often through a bomb, and in addition, privacy and surveillance questions can be asked. We agree that mandatory bombing will lead to lower collection costs, but other considerations are now more important. On behalf of the Left, I would like to inform you that we are making a proposal on the subject of privacy in the transport sector. We are concerned that privacy is being properly protected. It has to be balanced against the need we have for monitoring to avoid unwanted events. The left is, as you know, something skeptical about the interest compensation scheme. We want the money to be used directly to build infrastructure, not through a scheme where the government has to pay for expensive loans. However, the left does not take a position in principle on this at this stage. We believe that this must be done in the context of concrete negotiations on the state budget. Finally, the left is pleased that we are renewing and improving the road sector. We are involved in taking responsibility for spending the money better and organizing the sector smarter. There's reason to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2181	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2184	We hear the speakers of the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about how much new motorway is to be built – finally, there is to be progress in the plans. Later today, we're going to discuss E18. The left has a proposal that the E18 should be planned in line with the climate agreement. My question to the representative Raja is: how have the new road projects, which we are now hearing to be built faster than before, been assessed against the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2191	In a non-profit world, we would have high-speed trains in Norway across the country, so the need for car use would be greatly reduced. But, unfortunately, there is no political majority to do so. The committee was traveling in Japan, where we saw that they had this high-speed track – and had it for 40–50 years. You get a little envious in other countries, which have good solutions. But people depend on the car as well, and it's good that we build safe roads. New, safe roads also reduce road mortality. At the same time, we need to work in many other ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Another way to do this is to continue to facilitate an increasingly renewable car park. This is where the left has gone in front. We started this when we ourselves had the minister in the Ministry of Transport. I am pleased that the bulk of the population still wants us to keep the commitment we have had to zero emissions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2200	When I heard Raja talk for a minute, I thought of the poem that – it's well done by Haldi's Moren Vesaas – is called the "Tung Time Speech," because this was certainly not easy to understand. I understand this is difficult for Raja, and I interpret it as not being planned on the basis of the climate agreement. As the previous question was obviously a little difficult, I should like to ask a simpler question: what has been done to the Left in the matter we are now dealing with, about road reform? What had looked different in the matter we now have to deal with, without Left's involvement in the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2207	The second line here from the representative Myrli seems like such a rehearsed thing, that you thought that no matter what the representative on the other side answers, that's what I'm going to say – anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2212	There was no answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2217	I tried – now it is actually my turn. Is that it, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2223	Raja, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2226	As far as I have noted the question, it was about how it is supposed to achieve the climate objectives and the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. I mean, I addressed that question in a pretty all right way within the one minute that I had the opportunity to do it. As far as the second question is concerned, what the left has contributed to: all of this is something that we're behind. It's not a matter of unravelling one thing and saying that this is our thing, when we're all together behind this. I have no problem standing behind the majority that we make up. We're very proud of what we deliver here. This will be a smarter, faster and fairer way of building a road. I see what the Workers' Party itself did when they put in government – there has been no particular reason to be proud of it. And then it's very easy to stand on the other side and grumble that this government and the cooperation parties are trying to implement new ideas and new solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2235	I have a slightly open question to the representative Abid Raja, and that's the following: Comparing the two reforms presented today, a road reform and a rail reform, the road reform is filled with both priority of projects, earmarking money through fees and increasing operating credits to the company – a clear priority where a good deal of transport projects are taken away from politicians and say that these should be projects where this investment company, the new road company, will itself be given priority according to what is socially viable. If we compare it to the railway package, it's much less ambitious. It's another kind of reorganization. We are not going to take that debate now. My question is quite simply: is the representative Raja concerned that we are seeing an increase in investment on the road – especially around the big cities – with the road package that is coming now, which is going to cost the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2246	I very much agree with some of the considerations that the representative makes. I don't think building more road around the big cities is going to contribute to e.g.. That we get queues, corks and chaos that we have on the roads. All the studies that have been carried out on this show that the highway is being built out, it will only help to increase traffic growth. It won't reduce the queues. What is important is to include in the overall calculation that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås brings in, is that through the last budgets we have helped to reduce the backlog on the railway, which increased under the red-green government by about. 1 billion. kr per year. For the first time, this goes down. It is true that reorganisation in the railway sector itself will not immediately bring with it fresh money, as is the case in these projects. But this reorganization is meant to be effective in using the money. As I said in my post, what lies as a fixed key between the government parties and the cooperation parties, is that here you have to have a roughly equal distribution, so that as you increase your investment on the road, there should also be a corresponding increase in the railway sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2257	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2260	Let me just, since SV is not in the committee, start by saying that we are essentially joining the comments of the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Let me draw out two positive sides that I see at the package that is here today. One is that we are positive about implementing a toll reform. I think it's right to think, how can we reduce the number of toll companies? If you have landed on the magic number with what is presented here, I am not right to say – I cannot say that it is neither right nor wrong – but I think it is positive to implement a toll reform. On the other hand, I am negative to the interest compensation scheme that is in the arrangement. I think that will lead to further centralisation, because it will make it even cheaper to invest in ways where there are many people who are able to pay, and I also believe that for local politicians who will choose – should we bet on the road, or should we bet on more public transport – this will be an extra carrot to choose the road ahead of public transport. I record that both the Christian People's Party and the Left are comfortable with this. Usually they have had a different input to that particular question. The second is that I am glad that the package is cut off from financing public–private cooperation through private capital lending. I think it's good that it's cut off. I think it is positive that these contracts, the OPS agreements that are concluded, bear more impact on being development contracts that can contribute to innovation towards business, as the industry has asked for, and that it is very clearly defined that this money that comes in this way – i.e. those that are here, both in OPS agreements and in other forms of agreements – is brought up against the rule of action in the same way as other things. So to the third that I'm going to get into, and now I'm starting at the main criticism of what's in the reform: I perceive that this is a bureaucratic reform, and I'm going to ask the Council of State in his paper to explain why he thinks it's not. What you do is you create a state road company, with a lot of people from the state road system, who are going to do exactly what parts of the state road system do today, exactly what they do, drive projects and implement them. Setting up two state road services in a country with 4.5 million people in this way, I cannot understand is the sensible use of society's resources, and I demand that the Council of State in the annual budgets return to the Storting and give clear notice of the development of bureaucracy and the cost of bureaucracy, whether they are lightened on private companies or located in the road company or in the state road system – that this is clearly evident, for this is what I am concerned about. I fully agree with the Labour Party and the Center Party, which clearly says that much of the positive things you want to achieve through the road company would be achieved if you had implemented Roman number decisions and had your own project planning organisations that carried out the road projects. I agree. The fourth point is what I see as a disdain for democratic decisions, which emerged when the road map was presented, where it is very clear that some projects should be removed from political influence, and then you have to run according to what is socio-economic profitable. Well, people who are naive may think that socio-economic profitability is an exact science. With all due respect, it really isn't. Everyone knows that a project can go from being profitable to being unprofitable and vice versa by just changing on some small assumptions. It is therefore so important that socio-economic analyses are supporting wheels for political decision-making and not being elevated to a religion that is almost self-determined as to whether a project is sensible or not. I find it fascinating that the Progress Party, which has spent the entire life of its party criticising tailor-made economists in the Ministry of Finance, is now raising socio-economic analysis almost to a religion to control what kind of projects to carry out or not. The second part of the reason I'm worried about this is that the places and the projects that are most socio-economically profitable are often the places where there are most people, where there's most money to save – but there are also the places around the cities where we're interested in investing collectively instead. We're losing that opportunity with the scheme that's been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2287	I tried to listen to the post of the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and –
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2292	That was nice!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2297	I always try to follow when Holmås speaks! The point is that I tried to perceive what is SV's policy for faster, better and more correct organisation of road construction. Throughout the article, I only experienced a criticism of what the government is proposing. But I thought I would give Eidsvoll Holmås 1 minute extra speaking time to explain: What is SV's policy for a more efficient organisation of road construction, insofar as they are at all interested in building a road?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2305	We're interested in building a road, but we're interested in prioritizing public transport where that makes sense. The scheme that now lies, where you put all the road projects into your own organization and say that those that are the most socio-economically profitable are going to implement your own road company, without any further political treatment and prioritisation towards other things, we think is a bad idea. In addition, it is nice to hear that the representative listened to my post. But he obviously lost the point where I just described the answer to the question he asked. He asks the question: How does SV want to implement road projects faster? I must say that I agree with the Labour Party and the Central Party that a good way to do this is through Roman number decisions, with a clear possibility of prioritising budgetary resources in addition to the budget of the year itself. Project organisation has been tested e.g. in the Bjørvika tunnel in Oslo, it's being tested on routes and elsewhere, and I think it's a reasonable way to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2312	Just a brief follow-up to it: the answer to the question is that the representative really does not have any new ideas or new ideas about changing the organisation or changing the way we work with the road sector. The representative will only continue as before. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2317	That was a terrible defensive way of thinking about it. It's about how to plan overall on the road, but it's also about how many of these types of projects you want to put in place and have as a Roman number decision to implement that kind of project organisation. One of the things that's a crossroads of these political decisions, whether it's going on the railways, or it's going on the road, is that a lot of politicians need to report home and tell us to see here, we've got and started our road project here and our road project there. We also see evidence of this in the budgets adopted by the government parties and the supporting parties. I believe that overall planning – ensuring that when you put something into it, you implement the projects and give enough budget space for it – is a good way to prioritise, a good way, where we also have an advantage of disciplining ourselves better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2324	SV has often been skeptical about building four-field roads. Four-field and non-meeting roads reduce the number of fatal accidents by 80 pst. A report from SINTEF shows that replacing a heavily trafficked two-field road by a four-field can reduce CO2 emissions by 26 pst, despite the expected increase in traffic. In many parts of Norway, there is a dependence on the passenger car, and the need will only increase in the future. When we know that better roads reduce the number of fatal accidents and contribute to better traffic flows and lower emissions, I wonder why SV will not take the necessary steps to ensure faster development, so that we get lower emissions and safer roads for those who do not have an alternative to driving a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2334	There were a lot of claims here. But if I take into account what was the main point of the representative, namely that four-field and non-meeting roads reduce the number of fatal accidents by 85 p.m., I fully agree. I am a strong supporter of building meeting-free roads. I think it makes sense to develop middle parts. I think it makes sense to build wooden roads where there is a possibility of passing by, in places where it is relevant. But with all due respect, it's not that the places where the Progress Party pushes the most for motorways are the places where you depend on a car. Not many motorways are being built in the districts. It is especially around the largest cities you get the major motorway projects, and there I believe that the big money instead should have been spent on the railways and other collective solutions, such as. on the E18, which we are going to discuss later here today. And then it would have been great if you had also been involved in supporting average speed measurements, which also have a proven impact on the number of deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2344	This is a good day. We must both adopt a road reform and, later on, adopt a rail reform. This shows that, in almost 20 months, we have made a great deal of difference in terms of increased appropriations for the road and rail sectors, but also in terms of system changes – system changes that have been called for for a long time, perhaps not from red-green politicians, I notice, but from people who work in the road sector, and from people who work in the railway sector. In the evening post – both before and after the big shot – there were many news items where people who worked in the road sector were out and pointed out that it takes an unnecessary amount of time to plan things. Once we've run E6, E10, E18 and even E105, we've met a lot of people who work in the Road Administration. They've basically had the same story: things get broken and divided, and it's unforeseeable. It wasn't criticism of your own organization, but criticism of the way we, as politicians, have organized them. Therefore, it has been important to make changes. I note that some of the red-green politicians here today believe that things were really pretty good. It's kind of interesting to read, for example. The evening post from November last year, when the representative Rommetveit of the Workers' Party admitted that it had gone too far under the previous government. They had not been tough enough, they had not taken proper hold. Then it's a little strange that we in the hall today hear: no, it was actually done the grips that were needed. Project financing was the solution. When we know that that solution means that each road project gets its own entry in the budget, and that one, if one is going to make a single change, has to go back to the Stortinge to move money from one post to another, it says itself that it does not increase progress in projects. Other options have not been proposed. So we have a road reform without a single alternative proposal for the roll-out. I really take it as a good sign when one is dissatisfied with that things happen, but not quite able to put his finger on how one believes things should have been done differently. Making good roads, having good infrastructure, building good railways, and good cycling and walking paths help to give us mobility in everyday life. It helps to give people the opportunity to travel to and from work, to and from kindergarten, school and cultural services in a good way. Building good housing and work regions is important for the development of communities. For business, this means that they are given greater access to labour within a certain travel distance. Having good roads and good railways means that business is getting lower transport costs. They get more flexibility, and it gives us more competitiveness. This has been some of the important things that we've been focusing on when we've looked at how we can change the way we build and maintain the road in this country. A number of steps have already been taken: in the 2015 state budget, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have made sure that the maintenance run on the road is reduced for the first time in many decades. Maintaining what we already have is a very important factor for us. Because when we travel around the country and meet people, many people say they want a better E6 and a better E18. But if the access routes to the highways are also poor, full of holes and winter fences, it won't help to save a few minutes on the highways if one spends half an hour more than necessary on the side roads. So doing a grip on maintenance is part of the big bet. Someone has said that it would have been better to cut strings than to maintain what we have. Yeah, it's probably a culture that's lived for a long time, but with today's majority, it's a culture that's now changing. Then we ask ourselves at the same time: when we are going to build new roads – because it gives us either better road safety, faster accessibility or a mix of both – how are we going to make sure that it happens in a better way? A few years ago, a Technical Weekly saw that it often takes ten years to plan new road projects. People in the Road Service believe that this can be halved by the way you organize it. I think that's an exciting challenge. Just after the government change, we traveled to Westfold to look at the E18, which had been mentioned for many years before the government change. in the evening post in 2012, where it was said that the road project between Sandefjord and Tønsberg could be completed more quickly. The contractors confirmed it, the Road Service confirmed it, but no one really had the authority to go in and grant extra money to get it started. That money came with today's majority, and the road was completed almost half a year before time – in time for the summer vacation. It was also an important road safety project, for during the construction period there were over 100 outpatient outpatients for that road section, and there had been three deaths. By getting finished in the past, and not least before the big summer traffic arrived, someone did something about it. We've been to the E18 and we've talked to project managers there about how the sections of the road were broken up into eight or nine parcels, and about how one put a mass surplus on one parcel and knew it would be necessary to have it on the next parcel, but they didn't have the authority to put it into use. That's a little bit of the problems we've been trying to solve. It's a little bit of the things that make us see that when we have annual appropriations in the state budget of the Vegvesen, when the Stortinget sits and decides how much money to go to planning, how much to go to maintenance, how much to go to investment, and we have to go back to Stortinget when we're going to make changes to this, we want to give bigger powers to those who are actually going to do the job. That's where road companies are part of the solution. Someone says that this could be arranged by just changing the Storting's budgetary system. Yes, we could, but how long would it have taken if you were to change the whole system of the Storting? Some say that these powers already have the Road Service. It's a little weird in that case. Then why did we end up like we did with the E18 in Westfold? We think the changes we're making are reasonable, natural enough. Some say that here there's bureaucracy, because you're going to have parallel organisations in the Road Administration and in the road company. No, of course you don't want parallel organizations. When a person transfers responsibility for E18 to the road company, the Road Administration does not have its own organisation to monitor what the road company does. Then one has moved the tasks and responsibility, and then one also moves the need for people. That means there are fewer people in the Road Service to that task, and then a people in the road company have instead. Then there are some people who give the impression that this road company will have many hundreds of employees – 500 employees, I hear from someone. Yes, if that was the case with that portfolio, I would also be a little worried. But I notice that there are mostly red-green politicians who see a lot of local jobs. The road company that their wholesale representatives oppose, nevertheless hopes to get the red-green politicians in place locally. I think they realize that this will be a permanent company, which will not be closed down by government change once in the future. That's good. But the board of directors sees a two-digit number of employees, not three-digit. I think that is a very good attitude, because it testifies to a government that sees that one here should have a food set, slim and efficient organization – not a booming bureaucracy. We have said that we should make changes in the way we charge tolls. Yes, I know there are many here who are looking to take the Advance Party, and as FrPs I would more than like to get rid of the tolls, but there is no Stortinget per day. Then it's about getting to the second best, and it's about making sure that the fares go down as much as possible, because we run the bomb companies more efficiently and get the financing costs down. It's not the first time you're talking about a bomb reform. The red-green government talked about it in 2013, and they also talked about it in 2009, but it never materialized. Now, after 20 months, it has been submitted to the Stortinget, ready for decision. But what is alarming is that the Workers' Party and the Centre are against the most important instrument that will provide lower tariffs. On Wednesday I get a visit from a former member of the Labour Party, Tom Tvedt from Rogaland. He has one claim when he meets me, and there is a lower rate of Rogfast. By the way, he has two demands: he should also have a lower rate of E39. No, by the way, I think he should also have a lower rate on the Nord-Jären package. He will have lower tariffs everywhere, but his deposit representatives are today expressing a negative opinion about a reform that provides lower toll tariffs. There should be a link between what the parties promise locally and what they promise nationally – it is now missing from the red-green side. There has been a discussion about OPS. OPS is an implementation strategy and is put into service. There is no new implementation strategy, some of which gives the impression in this debate. It's a strategy that's been used many times around the world. It might be new for some parties that it's being discussed again, but it's actually a strategy that's been used in many places, and mostly with good experience. Then there's been a discussion about whether it makes sense that we're borrowing money into a project when the state has so much capital already. In the OPS strategy that we have, these OPS carriers shall not borrow money for a long time. But I think it's a little weird when some people think that when an OPS project borrows money from the state, it's expensive for the state. But the same implementation strategy selects the same batches when one has other toll projects and the drivers have to pay the entire bill. Then all of a sudden, it doesn't matter that there's a precious way to finance it. That's fine. When others take the bill, it's not a problem, but when the government gets the bill, it's a huge problem. There's no logic here. And I'm recording that the Workers' Party says they're against financing the way, but they've established 60-70 bomb companies, just to finance the way. Now let's make a change. We put this together in a few companies, we make changes in the way it's organized, we get down the cost of how it's financed, and so we can also get lower rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2389	The Progress Party promised an infrastructure fund of 500 billion. kr, and the Right and Christian People's Party promised to convert the State Roadway into a limited liability company. Today we have agreed on a In the debate in the media – and also as late as today, from the pulpit – the Council of State claims that we, who believe that the state road system could do the same, are wrong. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: why can't the State Road Agency have the same framework conditions as the road company, so that they could have done the job and you wouldn't have set up a new company, with the degree of administration that it brings with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2396	It is a bit interesting to experience the Workers' Party in this debate, because while the representative Kjerkol tries to give the impression that this road reform is a puzzling affair – there were a lot of suggestions about the first day it was presented – about ten days later in the Class struggle saw the fractional leader of the Workers' Party in the Transport Committee being out warning against a roadbonanza. So that's the exact opposite of the message, that there could be so much new way here that it was a problem for the Kingdom. Then I think the Workers' Party should decide: Is this frail stuff and puzzled stuff, or are these frail things and difficult things? There's no relationship between that. The Road Service is an establishment dependent on annual budgets. The carrier is a limited liability company with a board of directors, where we enter into a long-term agreement with long-term financing. I would like to see more than that we could develop more agencies to have a long-term approach, but I note that with the way we have set up the start and budgets today, it will be difficult. I'm concerned that we're going to show results, that we're going to get started, and then I've chosen this approach as the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2405	So the answer is that the Council of State has chosen this approach as the best. So it's nice to be dosed in what's a place, and what's a company -- it's the government council when he gets permission to do it, so we'll take that to ourselves. But I don't think the Council of State responds to what the barriers are to give the State Road Service the same powers to exercise the flexibility that the Council of State is talking about hot for the company to get, a flexibility that – I think he has the whole Stortinget behind him – you want to give to those who are responsible for building a road in this country. It's also a point that the council had, and that's the point of Tom Tvedt and Rogaland. Tom Tvedt and Rogaland have to decide for themselves what they want to use the efficiency gain of the toll reform for. The Council of State has said that it should only go to reduced rates. There's the difference between us. But I ask again for an answer as to what it takes for the State Road Administration to have the same authority as the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2415	This concerns, among other things: on the debate on multiannual budgets. That's what the Progress Party in opposition has been very eager for, and we've gone to the elections on it. But there is not a majority in this Chamber to have multiannual budgets. I think it is very interesting when the Labour Party now gives the impression that they will support everything about this, but the Labour Party has therefore said no to multiannual budgets. Then we've said that the way we can solve this is to have a long-term approach is to have a company where we enter into a contract between state and company to get long-term funding for this – if we had transformed the Storting's budgetary system to have multiannual budgets, more than usual. The other important thing here is to get an organisation that is targeted and tailored for a type of road project – European road projects, mostly four fields, mostly in areas where it is not politically complicated, in the sense that there is not much other public infrastructure. A lot stays in virgin areas, but it makes you get an effective organization that can carry out in a good and nice way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2424	It is not my intention to dare either the Council of State or the Assembly, but we have in Norway today both state agencies and our own levels of government that are governed and that have great freedom in how they carry out their tasks. It is a little strange that there is no technical justification for this when a big message is presented that is intended to influence policy in this area, and that you also respond as the Council of State does here. A new follow-up question on my part: What powers are granted to the company that does not receive the State Road Service, and if it is very important that the company is given these powers in order to succeed in the development effectively, as the Council of State describes, why is it not important that the State Road Service be given the same powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2431	If the Workers' Party signals, it's a willingness to change the way the Storting budgets money, to have long-term or multi-annual budgets, I think it's a very interesting notion that the Workers' Party is now making. On the other hand, as part of the road debate, I'm a little surprised at what the Workers' Party really wants. We have put forward a proposal, we have made it visible that a person gets a long-term look at what is being done, a person gathers responsibility for funding by saying that they will receive a given sum per year – in addition to an opportunity to borrow money, as well as that they will receive tolls, as long as tolls are spent. So they themselves will be able to do many more priorities of how the money is spent. When does a money spend on planning, when does a money spend on investment, when does a money spend on maintenance? That freedom does not have the Vegvesen today. If one wanted, we could turn everything into a bag post, multi-annual budgets. If the Labour Party believes that we are going to start budgeting like that in the Storting, with multiannual budgets, I look forward to it. But right now I feel that the Workers' Party is more on the track where one person says one thing, another person says something else, and then it's really just to be critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2440	When the Committee consulted on the road reform, several of those at the hearing were involved in the financing of the road company. There were several who indicated that funding was almost a bit puzzling in relation to the need, in order to establish it first. The point was that when a company was established, money was to be phased in in line with the progress of the projects. Several of those who were in the hearing thought that it would not be possible to do so, as it had been put up for now. Why has a system not been set up to phase in money in line with the progress of the projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2447	The company will have a predictability far greater than that of the Road Service today. It is not like today that the Road Service automatically receives money if they build more roads than what was planned, rather on the contrary. When the red-green parties in here talk about overfilling the national transport plan, they owe it to say that some 20 road projects were somehow delayed during the same national transport plan. Many of these delays were simply due to the fact that there was no money. The center party is trying to give the impression that money came automatically, which is not the case. We have said that we should prioritise more money for the road sector than is planned in the national transport plan, but we have also said that we need to spend the money more efficiently. Success in infrastructure construction is not about how much money you spend, but about how much you get built. This is where this road company will have a number of powers and opportunities to spend the money and prioritise projects on the basis of a professional justification – instead of a fragmented development. The road service itself has told us that in most of the road projects they have, they could save between 5 and 20 pst. by organising the projects more comprehensively, as we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2456	I registered that the Council of State would not respond to what I asked for. The point was that if you first established a road company, you had to make sure that the appropriations were phased in in such a way that you followed the escalation of the project. Why didn't you choose such a model?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2461	The company gets a portfolio. We have a cost estimate of the portfolio – we say how much money they will receive every year. They have the opportunity to borrow money, and they have the opportunity to borrow tolls as well. This means that the company will have a strong influence on how they implement the projects. Although we have said that there is a 20-year implementation period, for my part, they need to do it more quickly than that. But it is important for us that there is predictability here, and especially considering that all the parties here in the Storting, perhaps with the exception of the Advance Party, believe that the rule of action is God's gift to the Storing, one should be concerned with predictability precisely in terms of money use. The progress party as a party has said that one wants to invest more of the oil wealth in the road sector, but we see that the other parties say that the rule of action here is to rule and hold back. The four parties that present this reform have found a good balance, which means that we have predictability in terms of money use, while at the same time giving the company a dynamic in how they implement the projects, and that is a good way. But I am not surprised that the Center Party is critical, because the Center Party believes that this puts Norwegian road construction ten years back in time, according to Geir Pollestad. Then we just disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2468	I was actually going to ask about bureaucracy, but I think this debate that has now taken place between the various representatives is so interesting that I would like to follow it further up – and I feel that we are not getting a proper answer to the questions asked by the Workers' Party. The road transport company will now have a great deal of freedom to give priority to money. Everyone understands that if you have more money, you get more. If you have more money, you will get more money, and then you will have the opportunity to complete road projects more quickly. Therefore, I would like to ask the following questions: In the choice between launching more road projects – and thus in a situation where the road company may have to ask the Minister for Transport and the Stortinget if more money can be allocated than what has actually been allocated – will the clear message of the Minister for Transport be that projects should be set in motion so few that one is absolutely sure that the budget framework and the space for action given will not be blown up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2475	We're very busy getting more money, not just discussing how to allocate more money. One of the things that have worried not only me but also very many of those who are concerned about good social economy and not least good infrastructure construction is the enormous cost growth that has been. Many would say that, among other things, is about too much project fragmentation, or you've spent too much time planning – all the things that cost more than laying stones and asphalt. Our clear approach is that we've told the road company that when it's a portfolio – 5 billion. kr in the year – is to give the Governing Board predictability. Then there is a steering signal to which the steering system must relate. So this can be changed in the national transport plan, and that can be changed by decisions in the Stortinget. But there are no powers there to allow me, as the Council of State, to start adding extra money to this company. That's what makes us think that we can find the balance by being offensive and building a lot more way than the red-green plan, while there's an approach here from the company to spending the money so that they get the most way for the appropriations they get.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2482	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2485	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his presentation and for releasing the committee through this slightly jagged, narrow road until today. We are in a good way to build this country, also by better and safer roads. The adopted national transport plan for the current period, from 2014 to 2023, is a very ambitious plan, not least before the road area. Fortunately, the sitting government has confirmed that this agreed plan must be followed, even within the road area. So far we are not only in the right way, but also in the right way, which is the main title of this message. When it comes to the rest of the headline, reforms in the road sector, much of what has been launched is also a direct follow-up and implementation of what was presented in the NTP, which is also a red-green policy. When the Council of State in its contribution gives me the honour to site something I should have said to the evening post last year, that things were going a little late, then it might have something to do with the fact that with the new grips that came into the national transport plan that was signed at the end of June – but where the government had to go off and be replaced with a new short time afterwards – there was a good deal of work, both in the NTP and in what was done in the department, which was clear, and that it was therefore rather low-hanging, easily plucky red-green fruits that the new government could then put forward as if it were their action and their work that now turned out again. In some important fields, this message differs from what is the Workers' Party's perception of what is the right way to go, even when it relates to structural reforms within the sector. A new road development company, outside the state road system, seems unnecessary bureaucratic. Here it could have been achieved within the framework of the existing road system. And even though the projects that are notified in this message are called startup portfolios, the geographical distribution is such that it is at least so difficult to call this a national road transport company. Nor did I find it so strange that, during the committee hearing, Hordaland County, submitted a question saying that they would have both the E39 project Hordfast and the joint project by road and track on the E16 between Arna and Voss into the new company's portfolio. While we are here now to discuss the matter and sometimes have some glee on our phone, we who are representatives and members of the Committee on Transport and Communications have received an e-mail from the office to the spokesman in Kristiansand, where it is also at a PowerPoint that I have not had time to look at yet, but the whole thing is advertising that one has to put the new road company to Kristiansand. Both there and in a number of other cities around, they seem to have very large and many offices to live in, so the expectations that this will come both here and there, and that it will be a big company, are at least pretty big. Before this collapse came together in 2013, OPS was a hot election theme of the transport policy, and the impending transport policy figure of the Progress Party, Bård Hoksrud, characterised Right's OPS financing of road construction as 'heavy in the hat'. On another side, the same Hoksrud stood out as the guarantor against road toll financing. Now, it is not the Right Party or the Progress Party's electoral program that applies most longer, but rather the Government statement, and we see in this message that tolls must be an important part of road financing for many decades to come, at least until 2050, that OPS as a method of financing has faded, and that there is now more to OPS as an implementation strategy. And let it be said again: the Labour Party will, even in the future, use private companies both to build and to operate road installations, but I believe that private financing of public road installations will involve greater financial costs, which at last have to be paid by the Billistan and the community. The warning toll reform is a long way off following the current NTP, and in this way the government is right, even though the changes to fewer toll companies could have come earlier. And it's not true, as the representative Roy Steffensen claimed in his post, that the Workers' Party wanted 19 toll companies. We thought that this with a few is just right, while the Progress Party, when this was discussed in the NTP context, wouldn't be in the discussion because they wanted zero companies. We want company. The progress game would have zero because they want zero tolls. It must be a clear objective that the maximum amount of tolls will be used to finance road construction and that at least the minimum amount will be used for collection costs and back-up administration. But even if the message adds to simplifications, there is a significant deficiency in one point when it comes to tolls. In a report, the National Audit Office pointed out that the lack of use of the piece entailed considerable costs for the toll collection. This, together with the large loss of claims resulting from the fact that road users do not pay for their passages, means that the mandatory piece will be the single measure that will give the most effect. The introduction of a mandatory piece for a motor vehicle over 3500 kg has been a step in the right direction, but mandatory pieces should also be inserted on lighter vehicles, precisely to ensure that the tolls are as high as possible, and that the minimum of the tolls should go to collection and toll management. In its comments, the Government Parties and the Left will not be involved in the introduction of a mandatory piece. In previous rounds where this has been a topic, these parties have used privacy as an argument for not introducing a mandatory piece. In another case from the Transport Committee, which is to be discussed here in the Chamber now on Thursday, the Left has commented that the party was previously opposed to the section-ATK in terms of privacy: ‘This member now considers that this argument has lapsed and indicates that the Privacy Policy concluded in 2011 that the Route ATK does not conflict with the Data Protection Act.’ I think the same data protection assessment has to be based on tag usage, and the government party and the left here make a loss. I am very pleased that the Grave stressed this in its article. The Christian People's Party has understood this. What is now the argument from the Government Party and the Left in an annotation form is that one thinks: ‘ mandatory bombing will be a disadvantage to many. [[...]] There are very many motorists who today live ten miles from the nearest toll station, and who rarely or never drive through a toll station, who with the requirement of mandatory bombing will risk fines if they do not have a chip in the car they normally only drive in their community.» Then I have a question to the Right, the Progress Party and the Left: if you add up a system that is such that one can run without a piece if one runs only tens of miles away from where there are toll stations, but that if one is to run through a toll station, one must have a piece - is there a system that these parties could have been in? Because here I feel like a slide when it comes to the argument. What is also an advantage with a mandatory piece is that it will actually be able to function as an electronic vehicle card. One can pay from time to time, depending on where, and one can have environmental differentiation based on emissions. I think it would have been a good thing if the government party and the left could have clarified this, because then one might have come to a solution where one could have put this in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2534	For several years, there has been a need for radical changes before Norwegian road construction. Now it's become a reality, and we're going to make sure that we keep what we've promised. We need more holistic construction, more efficient organisation and not least more roads for each krona. Well-functioning infrastructure is essential in order to meet the expectations of citizens and businesses that we should ensure a competitive Norway – a Norway that is ready for transition, where new jobs will be created and business will be strengthened. Road reform is the foundation for faster implementation of long-term infrastructure. The red-green government did not take the necessary renewal measures. There was a small amount of the alleged solutions to which Mr Rommetveit referred in his article. The Norwegian model was long planning time, clumsy expansions and uninhabitable financing. It wasn't much to be proud of. Today's political plurality called for, and suggested, a funding system in which planned and launched projects could be implemented more in context, but we were discouraged by the red-green time and time again. Now we are presenting a reform – a whole new tool and a whole new way of planning and building roads in Norway – with road companies, OPS and toll reform. When it comes to the road company, I would just like to make a brief observation that it is an important principle that the company is responsible for important main roads. Gradually, the company should also extend responsibility to the entire TEN-T network in Norway. The next grip that was made in the road reform is OPS. For the treatment of Prop. 97 S for 2013–2014 asked the Stortinget to develop a strategy for the use of public–private cooperation in the development of infrastructure actions. It is very gratifying that the OPS strategy has now become part of the road reform and that it is already agreed to initiate the planning of three projects to be implemented as OPS. The following projects are: E10 / rv. 85 in Nordland and Troms, rv. 3 / rv. 25 in Hedmark and Rv. 555 Sotra compound in Hordaland. OPS is selected as an implementation strategy to provide added value in the projects. Permits shall be made in line with the activity of each project and most of the investment costs shall be paid shortly after the project is opened. Early payment of the investment costs will reduce the financing costs. So for the toll reform: Tolls have been part of Norwegian road financing for many years. Payments for use of the road network, bridges and ferries were actually made several hundred years ago. Norway has made itself dependent on user funding as a significant contribution to achieving planned road development in Norway, but the development and organisation of effective enforcement has not been a political priority. Now we are also taking action in this sector, to facilitate better management to ensure more money. It is added to fewer companies, and in that process it is important that the counties ensure that the regions become appropriate and large enough. In addition, there is a basis for transferring some tasks from the State Road Service, and for cultivating the roles and tasks that one has, so as to provide a good basis for cooperation, for efficiency and not least for modernisation. We have pointed out that the State Road Service should focus on its administrative function and strengthen it. They should also withdraw from operations where possible. AutoPASS is a well-functioning national system for customers, with a unintended collection solution all over Norway. We're going to keep this. Regional solutions to customers may only be counterproductive. It is important that good incentives for increased use of chips are provided and it should be considered whether to open competition to the tasks of the issuer. The issue of tiles is, in our opinion, not optimized today. Here one should give more opportunity to create new businesses, including Norwegian enterprises. There should be no basis for monopolising the issuer role. Competition can provide better service and new services in the long term. Therefore, it is good that the government now in the road reform signals further work, and that it is a priority task to find good customer-adapted solutions. Introducing a mandatory piece would solve some challenges, especially related to loss of demands – i.e. money from those who do not pay will never be demanded – but it would also create new challenges when conditions are not right for it. Therefore, we do not want to introduce a mandatory piece at this time. We are more concerned about finding the good incentives to actually choose to use a piece than demanding everyone to have a piece in their car. It is also superior here that we should facilitate effective road development, and we must ensure the proper functioning of infrastructure for a competitive Norway. We are now taking action through road reform because we are overestimated that this will give us better use of the resources we use for road construction. And we need each heads well invested.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2564	First of all, what determines whether you can build more roads is that you give more money to go. It's a matter of course. And then, of course, you can spend the money in smarter or less smarter ways, but more money gives more way. After Bondevik II's deleterious movement bet, the Workers' Party decided that more traffic would be built, more money would be allocated. In that election campaign, the Christian People’s Party and the Right called it “empty promises” and “air billions”. That part of the story seems to be forgotten now. It also seems to be forgotten that when Erna Solberg was really going to hit and promise a transport bet in 2009, her promise was that we would spend 60 billion dollars. kr more than the zero proposal from the State Road Administration. The fasitite became the Workers' Party's proposal, with 100 billion dollars. kr more. Then a transport plan was to be adopted in the summer of 2013. The clock of damage was to the Right and the Advance Party would really turn on the big drum. The problem with that drum was that it cracked as soon as the parties got power the following autumn, and it was the level of the Workers' Party's plan that was continued. So it's this level that the rapporteur in his first post refers to as completely different ambitions than the red-green ones. It is especially that there is one from the Christian People's Party standing up here with the kind of claims, especially in view of that party's connections to the ten commandments. The working party wants the best way for the money. Then it is foolish to set up a company that will have many of the same tasks as the State Road Service, and thus make money that could have been spent on the road more red tape. Unfortunately, it is not new that this government chooses solutions that lead to more bureaucracy. TV 2 could tell that more than twice as many bureaucrats are hired each day with this government as under the previous one. And we've seen that this government is a master at introducing new arrangements that make it incur increased red tape costs. In the RNB we have a number of examples that the government did not see the consequences of its own decisions: classified parental benefit in kindergarten, red tape costs incurred 41.7 million. changes in the nursery allowance, red tape costs incurred 24.2 million. the transfer of excise duties from the customs and tax haven, estimated new operating costs of 25 million. preparing for reform in the tax haven, not seen in the autumn, 120 million. kr Total of RNB red tape costs of 210 million. kr. So when the government stands here and says that this reform won't lead to any more red tape costs, we're talking about a government that strictly doesn't know what it's talking about. The working party believes that road construction should take place more comprehensively and without these ideological curvatures that favour the process. In the government, we proposed a scheme with a specific priority road project, which was also described in the NTP, with its own project organisations and commitments over several years. It worked well in, for example, Bjørvika. This solution would provide predictability and efficiency in road development without additional red tape costs, to which this government provides in the transport sector, but also in a number of other sectors, such as health and school. Although the Labour Party believes it is positive that the government is now following up its efforts to streamline the toll collection, it is with some wonder that we record that the Minister of Transport is making up toll financing in the foreseeable future. The guarantor of no toll – the guarantor himself, Bård Hoksrud, is also sitting in the hall – has now demanded the most toll in history. In his first two years, Ketil Solvik-Olsen will have demanded 17.5 billion. kr in tolls. The argument that we have heard here earlier today that the Progress Party does not have a majority alone does not hold. All other parts of this house measure up against what they promise, and what they actually deliver. It will be interesting to see whether the Advance Party before the 2017 elections will reconcile its promises to the voters with the new reality they have discovered here on the Stortinget and in government. Tolls until 2017 are too many an eternity perspective. The Progress Party should be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2601	To put it straight: the working party is concerned with the best possible way and the best possible way for the money. Therefore, the Labour Party will organise the road sector in such a way that the community gets the most out of the money. We say no to solutions that cost and create more bureaucracy, which we believe this road company will provide. The position calls for what the opposition wants, and I noticed that the minister was a little in doubt about what the Workers' Party really meant. It was a little special to hear it from a Progress Party – the concerns that the Workers' Party had more messages. I can at least say it like this: we've registered it from other parties in other cases. The Labour Party will strengthen the State Road Service – we have sometimes said that from the pulpit today, and I can repeat that again – which we believe has the competence and experience to implement large-scale road development. And we're going to make sure that the State Road Service can control the portfolio development of national road projects through specific priority projects. That the minister has not managed to bring it with him, I am sorry, but it has been repeated by several of our representatives today. A new road haulage company that is just going to do the same thing as the state road transport company already does, we believe that it will increase bureaucracy and bind up resources. These are resources that should have been used to build more roads. We can't see that there's any big advantage in breaking up responsibility for highways between two actors. We believe this gives more bureaucracy. And as the government itself writes in its communication, the Swedish Road Administration has an effective implementation organisation today. The need for new instruments to be used in order to increase the speed and efficiency of their development, we agree to this, but the instruments must be targeted at the main obstacles to the faster and more efficient implementation of the projects, which are essentially things that we agree on, i.e.: predictable financing and more efficient planning processes. It is not just by breaking up the company. There is one difference, and there is the difference between the State Road Service and the new company related to the complexity of the project portfolio, for the new road company should be based only on regions with a low level of conflict, as it says, and not on complex urban areas either. The state road service is still going to do the complicated jobs, you say. So you choose to take out eight sections of a new bureaucratic extension company instead of solving it within the state road system. We think that's strange. So you choose to make a mini-way service on the side of today's organization. At the hearing in the committee, we heard from a number of people that they were concerned about the employees and that they were concerned about adequate skills in the future. They were also concerned that the new company would take responsibility from the State Road Administration. The struggle of competence is there no matter what we do, but at least we don't think it's getting better by splitting this up. In the proposal for a road carrier and portfolio of 130 billion. SEK to eight sections, which are proposed, there is no investment in North Norway. It's not a single project north of Trøndelag. In addition, only 40 pst. of the projects taken from the NTP. That means that over 60 pst. of the And it's not like it's just North Norway that's left out. No, we see that there's a very clear geographical bias in the portfolio. I noticed the comment made by Committee Chairman Linda C. Hofstad Helleland at the press conference, on the reason for a new road company, which would provide more predictability and coherence in the development. We do not disagree with that, but this must be done without creating a new bureaucratic company. Furthermore, she said that now they got a company with a portfolio without the constant presence of rapporteurs who wanted to mean something and ‘hang on the neck’. I think that describes well that you actually add up to a limited involvement in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2620	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2623	In the debate there has been a lot of complaint about the history of the Red-Greens, especially the Workers' Party, but throughout the last big-scale period and in the election campaign we heard among others. This from the Progress Party: It was zero problem to send the mule out of the country. That would happen as soon as they came to power, within a hundred days, if I don't remember completely wrong. He's still in the country. The fuel charges were to be cut immediately. Today, a gallon of gasoline costs about $16. Enough about it -- I never thought they'd be able to fulfill the promise. All the bombs had to be demolished. To me, it was amazing that someone could believe it – that was, of course, totally unrealistic. And this is just a little bit of promises that were given, and that it was immediately to be cleaned up. I could have done the list much longer – everything from complaining about too high food prices to the NRK's license fee. We should have seen our last – it's still there. When they were confronted with this, we were told that we did not know what we were talking about, we were rude, and from a slightly offended Progress Party we were told that we were only out to paint black. Well, now they've been in government for two years, and as I said, I could do the list a lot longer than the promises they haven't even shown the clue to be able to fulfill. But there were two things I actually believed in the Progress Party, and one was that bureaucracy should be slimmed down. Because we heard a lot about what they described as this great, useless bureaucracy, that there were too many employees in the public sector, especially in the state, and at that time it was never about distinguishing between government employees in production, state employees as case handlers, and those who worked in the central administration. Well, we've never had more bureaucrats than we do today, and the decision that the majority now understands means that bureaucracy will increase even more. The other thing I believed them in was their no to OPS. As previously stated in the debate, the OPS by the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud was referred to as ‘heel in the hat’. In the previous period, the main thing was the Right-yes to OPS, and they also agreed to pay tolls. I understand that they are very pleased today. The main part of the progress batch was no tolls and no to OPS. Today, the majority in this Chamber – with the votes of the Advance Party – will vote for the creation of a separate company to work on OPS. We take more money into bomb charges than ever before, and it is announced 90 – ninety – new toll stations, and not enough with it; it will be tied up for decades to come. So when the Progress Party today stands and boasts of its own toll policy, it's almost not to believe! There is only one conclusion to this, and there is leverage in credibility. I see that the reform is called ‘on the right track’, but when it is presented as being built much more than what was adopted in this Chamber in June 2013, we have problems seeing that this is the case. The creation of a new company, the State Roadway for Competence, the creation of a payroll spiral and the increase in red tape, is, to put it mildly, alarming. That, in addition, monopoly on operating contracts over many, many years is also a strange blue-blue policy. Suddenly you're not in competition here, which is very important in all other cases. So here it has to be a monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2636	The President will show that 'heavy hat' is an unparliamentary expression, and now it's been used enough times.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2639	Investment in infrastructure is one of the most important activities a society can do to facilitate a good framework for business and population. It is also an investment for future generations. Just as we today have the joy of using roads, tunnels and bridges that generations before us have lifted up and built, generations that come after us will enjoy the investments and promises that we make, among other things. in the case under consideration today. The road reform marks a shift, a willingness to think new and to try new structures, both to reduce the planning time and to get away from this piece by piece and piece development practice, which has been discussed earlier in this debate, both in terms of planning and in terms of funding. This government has ambitions to build the country. We have committed ourselves in the government platform to over-comply with the national transport plan, and we have committed ourselves to establishing a separate road company to help achieve a more comprehensive and coherent development of the main road network in Norway. This road carrier shall also contribute to greater cost-effectiveness in these deployments. The company will have all the possibilities for long-term planning and overall implementation of projects through the 20-year time-frame for the start-up portfolio adopted by the Stortinget today. This government is committed to the organisation of infrastructure that will link larger areas of residence and work together. In this way, as a society, we are able to exploit a greater potential for the creation of value added and the efficient exploitation of society’s growth potential, and this is also emphasised in the context of the starting-up portfolio selected. Therefore, I am pleased that the route between Kristiansand and Stavanger is within the starting portfolio of the road company. The Kristiansand and Stavanger regions are two growth areas that have a lot of industry and business activities. Shorter travel time will strengthen the cooperation and exploitation of the competence of strong business clusters. The labour market is given greater access to labour when travel time is reduced and efficient roads reduce transport costs and businesses become more competitive. Areas between these two cities will also benefit greatly from a more efficient road link and shorter travel time. This increases the picture of opportunities, both for new business start-ups and for job choices. The government is working for increased road safety, and unfortunately there are too many accidents along this heavily trafficked route. I therefore look forward to the realization and hope and believe that this route will be among the priorities, even in time, within the 20-year horizon set for the implementation of the new road company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2654	The ostriches stick their heads in the sand every time they get scared – and hope it goes over. And that's how I've felt that it's been for eight years with the red-greens in government, too – you didn't want to do any of the world's things when it came to reorganization. I had perhaps hoped that they had lifted their heads off the sand and started to see – and perhaps made an alternative to the government's proposal. But the only thing I've heard in today's debate from the workers' party representatives is that they're busy with new, smart models -- new, smart ways to do things. What's the concrete thing? Well, the only concrete thing is that over the past eight years, we've got a government budget entry, and that's the government budget entry that was supposed to save the projects. We also know that a government budget line is something you can change every year, and it happened. The posts on this state budget were moved up and down as you wanted to spend money or not spend money on it. The consequence of having an entry on the State budget was that projects that did not have an entry on the State budget, but which were important, were downgraded if there was no money to implement the entries on the State budget in the priority projects. This government is doing something completely different. In fact, we are making sure that a state road company is set up that receives predictable funding, which means that it is not as dependent on the annual government budgets as it is on today's way of financing road construction. If one assumes that when the company is in place, it should come in approx. 5 B.C.E. kr annually, as the company knows they get, which allows them to stop building cluttered and divided, but can actually start building larger and more holistically. So when you stop planning things six times through a state like Vestfold, less than five miles, and plan it one time instead, you actually save bureaucracy, because then you just do it once instead of doing the same job six times, as you did in Vestfold, because you did it with a lot of chatter and sharing. That's what this is all about. That's what this road reform is all about -- actually making sure that we do things more holistic, and that we do it once instead of doing it many times. It's okay to know, because it's interesting to listen to the debate when I hear a worker party representative say that yes, they'll build a lot more way, but we see that on the E39 it was 'bonanza', it was dangerous to build a four-field road between Kristiansand and Stavanger. We think it's good if we can put in place a four-field road between Kristiansand and Stavanger. I'm happy today. In 2007, this would not be a reality – then we were voted down for the first time. So there's something about tolls and the kind of things that the Progress Party is still against, and with 29 of 169 we don't have a majority, but we've got a lot more than the number of representatives that we're looking for, and that means we have a lot of exciting in the future, with greater excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2665	For many, many years, the Progress Party has been talking about us wanting to set up a road company. Today we are dealing with the matter, and the road company will become a reality. I am proud to be part of this, a work that the Progress Party also worked with in the previous period, when I was on the Transport Committee, in opposition. The goal is to get a complete road development, with more money. Under the red-green roads were built piece by piece and divided, which we have known all year round to excite the projects. With the road carrier in place, there will be an efficient and comprehensive road development, including the operation and maintenance of future road-safe roads. Funding will become more predictable and the road network will be developed more rapidly. Projects that have been implemented are, for example: the project between E18 and E39 from Oslo to Stavanger. This includes pottery-ready projects that have become fully ready for construction in the last two years, such as: E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand. E18 and E39 between Oslo and Stavanger are the same route that in its time would be prioritised when it was about the red-green lightning strike. The southern runway was the first track to get lightning trains, if it had become relevant. The arguments were that there would be the strongest growth in those areas and on the Oslo–Stavanger route – mostly. This also applies to road construction. With regard to tolls and the form of payment we have today, we know that an incredible amount of money goes to administration and collection, and when you first have to pay tolls – which I am totally opposed to – most of the money should at least go for the purpose they are intended to. Toll collection surplus shall not enter into the operation of e.g.: Kristiansand Municipality, as we've heard, collect millions of dollars from Agder Bomb drift. It's a mockery of the drivers. When we go from 60 toll companies to three to five toll companies, it will release funds that will go to the money that was intended. It's a pleasure today, and today we are one step closer to a faster development of important roads for people and businesses that depend on a safe and safe road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2682	This has been a bit of a strange debate, where, as usual, we have received various kinds of criticism from the Labour Party. The representative of Kjerkol mentioned among others: that she was pleased that much of what we're doing is in the NTP. Magne Rommetveit followed up immediately, while the representative Kjell-Idar Juvik criticises us for that 60 pst. by the portfolio is outside NTP. I cannot take the criticism from the opposition very seriously, as the criticism clearly bears the mark of the foot with which you have stood up first, or of the workers' party representative who speaks. The opposition, as the minister mentioned, has called our commitment a «roadbonanza». At the same time, a year ago, they demanded a quick review of NTP, because they thought we were doing too much. Today, they certainly believe that we stick to their plans, while at the same time lifting out 60 pst. I think there would have been better debates in the big room about the opposition found an argument that they could agree on, not as it is today, where they criticize the majority of the population to do too little, while at the same time criticising us for doing too much. Unfortunately, there will be an inexhaustible debate. A concrete example is that the claim that Kjerkol made that we only follow NTP is wrong, that the road company should work with, among other things. four fields between Kristiansand and Stavanger. In the NTP there is, in fact, funds for the route Søgne–Lwigtal and Ålgård–Hove, but there is not a single penny for Lwigal–Ålgård. Here the Labour Party's transport policy figure has said that she is startled by the initiative we have launched and that at least they do not want four fields. So this project was not part of the NTP, and it's a clear commitment where the government and the red-green separation layers. Kjerkol also mentioned in the reply that a new road company would lead to an even more pieceful and divided construction. This indicates to me that it is obvious that the opposition has not read the message that is here. That's also proof of when a person reads the notes. It is clear that they point to the fact that the message says ‘words that hope, believe and mean’ in several places. A simple search in the document shows, on the contrary, that it does not read "hope" or "believe" a single time. When we see that it's not a single concrete suggestion from the opposition, I think we can sum up that after the government change, it's quite clear that the position has become much better. It's a shame we can't say the same thing about the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2695	The new road company could have been a good idea, but unfortunately it is organised in a way that gives it great weaknesses. As the government is now putting this forward, and the majority are going in favour, there are first and foremost new boxes in an organization map, which involves more bureaucracy, and it poses a real risk of jerk-and-trap expansion, which we had in Norway a few decades ago. When the Council of State heard about this matter the day before Stortinget was at NRK and showed how this was to be financed, he indicated that 5 billion would be granted. kr annually to this company. What was not said, as one was read in the message the next day, when the flashlight had gone down, was that no, in 2016 and 2017, it is not within 5 billion. kr. Similarly, it was claimed that the appropriation would amount to 100 billion. So twenty years times five billion. kr, but when that money disappears in 2016 and 2017, it's not talking about 100 billion. kr. It's weakness number one. Should the road company have been a good idea, a more flexible financing model should have allowed this company to expand these roads as soon as possible. The loan scheme that is in place is weak and will require one to portion the projects over all the 20 years, and one will go back to a situation where it is the money that controls the progress, not the progress that directs the money for the project. It'll give us jerk-and-nap expansion. Many places in the country are cheering one for this road company. The rapporteur has a great commitment to the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger. I share that commitment. But is the road company good news e.g. for the route Lwigal-Ålgård? It's black and white that one should give priority to the most profitable road sections first. The KVU for Ålgård-Sagne, with four-field standard, shows that Lgågal-Ålgård, with its between 4500 and 8000 in ÅDT, comes out poorly. So here one cheers for a road that is most likely to be finished in the year 2036. I want to do it faster. In addition, one today shall take the greatest toll decision of the time. We don't know how big that bill is - 30-40 billion. Toll money? It's still undecided. Roy Steffensen compares this plan to eight remaining years in the NTP. It is wrong to compare an eight-year plan with a twenty-year plan. We have to venture to think new, but it's not like every new idea is good. We must ensure predictable funding, but then the answer must not be less predictable financing and roll-and-drop development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2709	There has been a debate on the communication submitted. I have listened to the representative Hoksrud, who complained about having his head in the sand for eight years with a red-green regime. It might be good to remember that you have to take some oxygen in between, because it was like that when it was a government shift last time, ten years ago, both traffic and not least road construction got a real stomach stroke and a rhythm shift. It shows the appropriations, and it shows the projects. We want more money in the Workers' Party, and then we believe that we need to organise the road sector for that purpose. Once again, a message is presented with partly poor professional assessments, with little experience and little research. If this is a good move, if you want to set up a road company and split up the building owner's skills, you'll only know in quite a few years. We in the Workers' Party believe in a knowledge-based policy where we analyze correctly first, and then organize in a way that makes us have some indications in advance that say whether you succeed or not. The government has not presented this in what is being dealt with today. Just doing something isn't enough, you have to do what's right: more holistic, not less holistic, and have good contract strategies that provide innovation, and that also meet the maintenance needs after the expansion, and not least an effective toll collection, where the most effective approach is to introduce mandatory pieces, as the representative Hoksrud continues to argue that he doesn't want in his car. The Party of Progress is committed to this message and to the treatment that the Storting ends today, in fact raising the toll collection for many decades, over several generations, and not least over several accumulation choices. Then you can't rely on the same authority to be against this way of financing the way. When presenting policies that take action to develop this as a financing tool, you have weak credibility towards the voters you meet face to face before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2722	I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Cooperation Committee for this important reform, although we have separated layers on some key points. I record that there is a great deal of agreement on getting the best possible way for the money, that's good. We're talking about shorter and more efficient planning. We agree on a more efficient and, not least, coherent road development. We agree on the toll reform; getting fewer toll companies is a good organization. And we also agree on the new approaches to financing OPS projects. I think that's good. One thing is that not everyone applauds all the proposals made by this road reform, one must understand that. What I don't understand is that those who have run this country by a purely majority for eight years, who say that they now want the most way for the money, were unable to make any changes in the way Norwegian road development was going to take place over these years. I feel that the debate today is not able to come up with any new proposals either. Then I register that the representative of Wickholm is very satisfied with his own government's appropriations for transport, I think he must be allowed to be, but what is a fact is that in that period – despite strong increases in appropriations for transport – the national highways increased every year. Only in 2015 did this slow down. Where, then, are the grips that you want to get to follow up your intentions if you want the best way for the money? So the representative Pollestad E39 specifically mentions -- that this will be a way to organize the way that will take a very long time to implement the different routes. Yeah, it'll take time. We're going to deal with the rule of action, we've said that, and it's added up to a certain amount of money at the starting point. So a big one can choose to change it along the way. But especially in the distance he mentions, two growth centres are joined together, which not only enable you to count ÅDT and use it as a concept, but also create new values through an enlarged housing and labour market. Now a new company is being established with a targeted and well-grained profile for pedigree development. Through multiannual budgeting, together with the OPS and the tolling operation, which we are going to continue with, I am convinced that this will result in faster and more coherent and efficient road development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2737	We are approaching the end of this debate. There's been an interesting debate in many ways. I start to wonder sometimes, when both the mulla Krekar and the ten bids are drawn into the debate, whether there might be a lack of arguments. But not for that – if everyone could have lived after the ten commandments, we would have done well. Then there's a great need to tell the story – to tell your own story. I'm recording that there may be some limitations to the ability of innovation. When we launch the different ideas on how to streamline the road sector in Norway, we want to set up a road company. Why do we want that? Well, we want to make the road construction more efficient, more rational and make sure we get more money. We want to look at ways we can organise the planning, implementation and operation and maintenance of road projects, so that we actually get more for each of the heads we put into this sector. That's the ambition. That's exactly the same ambition we have when we're talking about OPS. Now we're talking about OPS as an implementation strategy. Sometimes I wonder whether the representatives from the Workers' Party are reading from an old election poster, or whether you have actually read the message. What's in the message is that we have to cultivate OPS as an implementation strategy. That means we remove the disadvantage that lies in the project being paid down equal amounts over 25 years. So we're moving the down payment of the project a lot closer to the final date for the work. This means that we eliminate the funding constraints that have to lie here, but at the same time we take with us all the good aspects of OPS, that it often gives faster implementation of projects, we see investment, operations and maintenance in the context, we get smarter solutions and increased innovation power. This is innovation. OPS itself is nothing new, but it has, in a way, been in the drawer a little too long – now is the time to bring it up. We also want to reduce the number of toll companies, and there is a broad majority for that in the Stortinget. That's something we agree on. What are the means by which it can be achieved? That's why we're proposing this interest-rate compensation scheme as an incentive for fewer toll companies, while also implying lower fares, shorter downtime and a better solution, from the driver's point of view, and fulfilling the obligations we've had, by reducing the amount of toll. There's been an interesting debate in many ways. I just miss a little bit more self-search, a little bit more ability to think new, to be able to put the story behind and look forward, to see if there can't be a lot of ideas in the message that's on the table -- we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2752	I think I'll just take a couple of clarifications. First to the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, who was involved in this with socio-economic profitability. He pointed out that it was in the big cities that this was often the problem — that they became socially profitable. Then I just want to point out that one of the least socio-economically profitable projects is the Opera Tunnel, and there's probably not so many places where there's more cars going through the clock, so it's not that simple. It's actually about time, which is often what matters in terms of socio-economic profitability. So to the representative of Sønsterud, who was concerned that the undersigned was now suddenly in favour of OPS. We've been to OPS as a deployment method, but we've been very opposed to OPS as a funding method. We've been pointing that out all along, and that's exactly what we've been getting through here, and what's good about what's in the proposal here. Then it's privacy. I know that the Workers' Party is not so concerned about privacy, and privacy is often weakened – and it has been weakened many times in recent years. You try to present it as if the Data Protection Authority thinks this is very good, the Data Protection Authority is quite sceptical about private matters. They were much more positive to the mandatory piece in the case of a heavy car and that kind of thing, because then it goes like a business. But they are very critical of what the minority now wants to do, namely to introduce the mandatory piece also in the passenger car. It's okay to bring it. Then the representative Kjerkol was aware that the ostrich had been breathing for the eight years – the Workers' Party, that is, they did, but they definitely couldn't take it again, and it's now for the first time been repeated, and we're now in the process of reducing the decay of the road network. We are very pleased about that. Otherwise, the debate today is full of evidence that everything that is new and a little exciting is for some very scary, and you can't dry out. But the representative of Kjerkol said that this would not be seen in many years' time, and that does mean that one has not intended to reverse this reform. Then it will be implemented, and it will be very exciting. Then we'll make sure that the Progress Party gets the most possible, so there'll be the least possible toll in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2765	First to the representative Hoksrud, who said he had not intended to reverse it. It was early to decide what is going to happen after the 2017 elections – but I hope he is right. So a little bit to the history of what has been, because in today's debate it's almost made as if nothing happened for eight years. It's been a repetition. I believe that the most important steps taken by the previous government were to raise the level of investment – in the appropriations for transport. Then you have a lot of examples of taking new ones. Its own item is mentioned. It was an instrument. The holgeland package is an arrangement for seeing operations, maintenance and investment in the context. One has the joint project along Mjösa, which some parties chose to oppose when it was being treated in Stortinget, but which is definitely a success. And perhaps most importantly, it is a proposal when the national transport plan was considered, namely that the Storting should make a decision on the principle of one road project and thus ensure that funding was put in place. That list could have been made longer. One tested new models. Now I think one is about to try out a model that has great weaknesses. Then I want to go back to the route E39 Sägne–Ålgård, because it's right as the case-rapporteur says, that it's not just the ÅDT that determines the profitability. The Communication states that a priority should be given to the companies with high socio-economic profitability in front of them with a low level of profitability. When one laid the KVU for Søgne–Ålgård, one calculated on the basis of a four-field alternative on the entire route, and it unfortunately came out in a huge minus. I can't see which other projects in this list will take priority, after E39 between Lwgval and Ålgård. That is regrettable, but I think the representatives must be prepared to tell their voters that the decision you are making today is a new E39 Ålgård–Lwigal in 2036. Then they get to the opening, the ones that want. The center part has greater ambitions for that distance and wants to do it faster. It's a bad idea to create cheers and false hopes today, when one adds up to a model that obviously makes it go many, many years before one sees the realities. If there are any new profitability assessments that make what I have now said wrong, it could have been good to clarify it. But today's decision is not good for the E39 between Ålgård and Lwigal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2780	We have to admit that it's not just to be in opposition – we get to hear that we're too negative, and we also get to hear that we're too positive. Then I just have to say that it's like that with us that we're for what we are for, and then we're against what we're against. And then it turns out that we're not saying that everything is just really bad. We say that something is for us, and that's for us. So some of us are talking about what we're opposed to. That's the way it has to be. If it is that the position is so much better than the position was before, I can say that part of the position that was before the opposition, I experienced very much in that way that one was opposite everything. We're a slightly nuanced opposition. It's between hands that's what we think is okay. A good part of what is at stake – there are several things in it – are also things that were done by the previous government and that were actually ready to be implemented. So a little bit to Hoksrud and this with privacy. I would ask him to look into the comments of the committee. There is a note from the Labour Party and the Centre Party where one points out that ‘the government should have gone even further in improving the efficiency of the toll collection’ and that it is linked to a mandatory piece. We also say in the comment: «These members shall at the same time assume that privacy is safeguarded by such an action.» So the claim – also from the representative Hoksrud – that the Workers' Party does not care about privacy is not true. We have written it quite recently that we care about privacy. There is also a technical and electronic progress that is such that when a registered payment, and one has paid and settled separately, it can be quickly erased. The data protection should not be a problem in this way. What I experience is constantly temporary motifs and changing foundations to avoid mandatory pieces, for some reason. I've asked the three parties if they can join a system where one can be allowed to run on the streets without having such a piece, if one cage several tens of miles from toll stations, but that one, when one runs through toll stations, should have such a piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2798	Nothing of what I have heard today makes me think that road reform is not a bureaucratic reform. We have asked questions – we have really received very little answer. It looks like there's almost inflation in setting up state companies or new directorates. If it's not bureaucratic, I don't understand. The government cannot explain how many employees the new company should have, what administrative costs it will have, nor the costs of setting up, remuneration and operation. The cooperation lots may also not be clear on how operations and maintenance are to be carried out. I think there's a great danger that it'll break up and be done less completely. Then we're called upon to answer what are our solutions. Our solutions were presented in the National Transport Plan, which was discussed in 2013. The previous two national transport plans have been overfilled. It was the most important and the requirement that we clearly got from both business and the population. Then a number of more effective measures and planning processes, a more comprehensive development and new forms of contract were introduced. The measures in NTP are our solutions. There's no reason for us to change that, even if the government makes a proposal today. The majority obviously did not want to follow up on some of the adopted measures contained in the NTP or add the measures to their projects and take credit for them. When we're not positive with the road company, it's simply because we don't think it's a good idea. So finally a few words about the proposal of the Central Party, which was presented today. We believe it is time for the state to assume guarantee liability for the state's own roads. It is not logical that municipalities and county councils should guarantee the roads of the State. We think we have to clean it up. Finally, as the representative Rommetveit was in the Chamber, privacy is important. It's important for the Center Party as well. We said that if we were to go in for a mandatory piece, we had to make sure that it was a solution that provided privacy. We believe that there are possibilities for that. Therefore, there could have been a new efficiency measure for toll collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2815	Yeah, now I've got it. Now there went up a light for me. Why haven't we built out the E39 before? Why has the Kristiansand–Stavanger route not been on the plan in the past? Could it be that the Central Party has been sitting with the Department? Or could it be that the representative Pollestad has been in the department? I have at least realized a little more clearly now the resistance that has been against lifting this distance. Because it has something to do with the way you look at socio-economic profitability. This has been some of what the new government has said it wants to work on: what is socio-economic profitability? Is it just counting the number of cars that pass in a day? No, it's actually not. It's now that time saving is an important thing. Heavy traffic on a stretch, as we know it from Kristiansand to Stavanger, is an important thing. One of four cars running on that road is a trailer. Accident rates and the number of deaths on a road are also linked to socio-economic profitability. The same is true of the environment. In fact, when a road is built so that it goes up and down the valleys, and not with much lower curves that allow lower emissions, it also has something to do with socio-economic profitability. The representative Meling was in these two large growing regions. Yes, it also has something to do with socio-economic profitability. And then back to the ÅDT, the ÅDT for which the Center Party has also been a numerator – that it is made a standard template for what an ÅDT uses when a counter. This does not allow for typical weekend traffic, when Rogaland’s representative Pollestad, for example, is to visit the South. One does not take into account tourist traffic in the summer, nor does one take into account that single sections are far above the standard set for such a route, as is the case for the route between Kristiansand and Stavanger. No, I think, as the new government has strung out the course, that being socially profitable on a stretch actually has far more elements in it than what the representative Pollestad made visible. That's the way to go. We're building Norway. We build a society that actually has this in itself. Finally, I would like to say about maintenance: Had the red-green government continued in 2013, it may look like, after the debate today, that the maintenance company had also continued. What about the costs that we now have for new construction of the road? I would almost have said something unparliamentary: it had gone awry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2842	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2851	On 12 May, the government presented Report. St. 27 for 2014-2015 On the right track – rail sector reform. This is probably an example of good cooperation between the two government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's essentially amazing that one minority government manages to unleash one major reform after another through the Storting. This can only be done when the willingness to change is present with all the partners. If it's not, it's going to be a minimum common multiple. For me as the case rapporteur, it became quite soon clear that the basis for common comments was microscopic – and that was the case. In short, the consensus is limited to who is in the committee and that we are dealing with the same matter. The last thing you can wonder about is if you follow the public debate. However, as the rapporteur, I would like to point out that the opposition uses long observations to mention that the matter is being dealt with in five weeks. This has been assessed by the Committee and also by the Presidency, and the majority has chosen to promote the reform of the Stortinget. The railway reform points out a direction and gives some details about where we want to go, and with what organisation. It has been announced since we joined, that competition in passenger train traffic is coming, so there can be no surprise. Many issues in the reform remain open and need to find their solutions in the further work. The majority therefore believe that it was important and appropriate to deal with the reform before the summer, so that the concrete solutions can be found and the reorganisation started. In the further work, we invite all interested parties to join in and discuss the concrete solutions that are feasible, which are the most effective, and which safeguard the employees of the sector and the competences that are there. In the following, I will use the time to present the majority's comments. There I can rejoice that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together on all the remarks. Why a railway reform? The short version is as follows: In some areas, the division of tasks in the railway sector is unclear and inappropriate. The railway works are both governmental bodies and operate lines on a daily basis. Responsibility for railway property is shared between Rome Eiendom and the Railway Agency in a way that creates problems. The NSB, as one of several commercial actors, is operating route planning against regional authorities. The Ministry of Transport purchases passenger transport services directly from the NSB as its sole provider. Thus, costs cannot be tested on the market. We here in the hall, which grants money for the purchase of transport services to halve the cost of what a train ticket actually costs, don't know if we could get an even better offer for the travellers with others. There are weak incentive mechanisms for the Railway Agency to keep the network open for traffic and for the NSB to drive innovation and efficiency, in relation to whether they had to compete with other train companies. It is too little overall and long-term control, for example. low focus on rail policy objectives related to the transport provision to be provided by the rail system in the short and long term. There is also a lack of focus on whether the measures taken are the most effective to achieve the objectives. There has been too much focus on individual projects, single departures and stations. Everything was not better before – most of it is better now: more trains, more departures and better trains. There has never been more money allocated to the railway than now. However, despite increasing appropriations, delays and operational problems are almost daily. Not everyone is so big that they get media attention, but they are noticed by the travelers. I'm thinking, it has to be possible to do better. Yes, says the department, yes, says the railway manager, and yes, says the group manager of the NSB. That is why we have a rail reform to deal with in Stortinget today. Hopefully, it will help solve both the major challenges and the small ones. How can we get the money that is granted to go a little bit further? How can we make sure that the money goes to the right projects? It's about organizing better, building up artificial barriers and cultivating the distinction between authority, builder and carrier. It is liberating that the Railway Agency and the NSB have seen this and have themselves made useful input into the railway reform. So does the Flytrain. The opponents of the reform spend a lot of energy finding examples of what is not working in other countries. This is actually a derailment, because the communication clearly states that the new reform must be adapted to Norwegian conditions. We have fewer inhabitants, live more widely, and the country is, when true, not specially organized for public transport. Therefore, it is foreseen that the railway should remain a public responsibility and that the public should have ownership of all infrastructure, including train equipment. So how can it be cleaned up in this? The government points to three main elements, which are supported by our partners, the Christian People's Party and the Left: It is necessary to distinguish clearly between controlling and performing entities by the fact that the tasks of authority are grouped together in purely administrative bodies without the provision of services. The reform proposes a new railway directorate responsible for long-term governance through, for example: capacity analysis, development of route models, socio-economic analyses, overall investigation, planning and budgetary work and coordination of resources in the sector and, in addition, the task of purchasing passenger transport services by train, which is currently carried out by the Ministry of Transport and new tasks arising from the reform. This applies, inter alia, to: strengthening the involvement of regional actors in the sector and ensuring contract management in new areas. It is proposed that the infrastructure undertaking responsible for managing existing and building new railway infrastructure should be responsible for traffic management and the management and development of property. The entity shall manage the clear responsibility of the State for the infrastructure and shall have a commercial device. The government will gather and cultivate the environment which will have as its primary task the construction and operation of the railway. Parts of the Railway Station will be continued in a state-owned enterprise. Rome Property is transferred to the State enterprise to collect the property management in one location in the sector. It will provide better opportunities to create more effective nodes. The business organisation of the infrastructure also provides for multi-annual agreements between the country and the infrastructure undertaking, which will increase predictability and overall use of the resources. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will point out that there is a need to improve railway infrastructure. That is why it is part of the reform. It is the main task of the new infrastructure undertaking to expand and maintain the infrastructure. This applies to both rails and other properties. By providing infrastructure managers with appropriate framework conditions, operational freedom and clearly defined tasks to train operators, the infrastructure undertaking will be better able to perform this task. By facilitating competition for passenger trains, as is already the case for freight trains, this will benefit both individuals and businesses through better services. The sum of this will help to better meet the needs of the customer – individuals and businesses – than they do today. The NSB is continued as a combined transport company, all-time owned by the State, consisting of NSB Persontog, CargoNet, Train Company AB, Nettbuss and NSB Gjøvikbanen. But NSB Persontog will eventually meet competition in the same way as CargoNet, the Train Company and Nettbuss do today. Among other things, the Flytrain will be given the opportunity to become an active actor in addition to the accommodation service for the Gardermoen. If you ask those who work in Nettbuss, they know that winning a bidding round implies a time-limited right and obligation to transport passengers on the allocated route. That's not the same thing as having a monopoly on the distance. Reform should have something to go for. In the Storing Message, the government announces its visions for the Norwegian railway system. Firstly, the railway must be at the heart of the solution to the transport challenges. Norway is facing significant transport challenges in the coming years. Population growth, especially around major cities, and the growth of freight transport must be managed in an efficient and environmentally friendly way. Railways must be a central part of the solution to this challenge and, therefore, provision must be made for rail to become an integral part of the development of traffic hubs and urban environments. It is also necessary to facilitate the movement of goods from road to sea and rail. Secondly, the railway service must continue to be a public responsibility. Decisions on where to go and on how often to go should continue to be taken by bodies under political control, which meet the needs of society, users and customers, and which look to more than business-economy assessments. Responsibility for the railway infrastructure shall lie with public owned activities. Thirdly, the customer shall be placed in the centre. Unclear and varying customer focus contributes to the lack of sufficient incentives for the customer to be at the centre of the organisation’s priorities. The railway works have no economic self-interest in keeping train traffic going. Low road tax means that the Railway Agency does not appear to be a supplier with clear obligations towards the rail companies. The NSB, which has delimited monopoly, has a weaker incentive to develop a better product for the customer than if the company competed with others. Fourthly, long-term objectives must guide development. The government proposes to continue today's division of responsibilities model. However, it is important that regional and local authorities and municipalities are more involved than at present in the planning of train traffic. The county authorities are responsible for the majority of public transport in this country, and it is therefore important that the new directorate takes this into account. Fifthly, it must be organised for competition. One of the key steps in the submitted rail reform is to facilitate competition for tracks through the following measures: it seeks to ensure that State-owned companies do not benefit from competitive advantages through special advantages or control over strategic inputs. A solution is outlined in which some defined sections are exposed to competition. The public imposes requirements applicable to Norwegian conditions. Operators may dispose of Norwegian material unless otherwise agreed. No one is questioning the NSB and the competence of its employees. On the contrary, the NSB is a capable carrier, and they should still be. It's interesting that the NSB today, through the Train Company, runs in Sweden after winning competitions there. During these days, the company competes for a contract that has more customers than NSB has in Norway. I think many in the debate have shown a great distrust of the NSB when they think the NSB will lose all assignments and disappear. No one has better conditions than those who run trains in Norway today to win competition. The government is making some important limitations in the reform. The notification does not assess how the railway network should develop in the coming years. The railway reform also does not deal with the development or closure of sections or changes to the offer of trains. These are assessments which have to be made primarily as part of the national transport plan. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left therefore find a frame-up of concrete railway actions to be outside the scope of this case. The same applies to the flight train AS. The debate focuses on the chapters of employee organisations dealing with the possible competitive outsourcing of train sections. As a train passenger, I was given to pilots about how dangerous the reform is. However, the content is strongly coloured by the political position of the organisations and without any real anchoring in the main message. Here are some examples: it is manufactured as if competitive outsourcing would replace public procurement. That's not right. Collective transport will continue to be subsidised independently of the operator. The competition is not about the customer, but about the state's money, it is claimed. The answer to that is that the reform is about how we can achieve the best possible train offer for the money we actually spend. The NSB and the Flytog give the state 900 million. kr in dividends, it was – understood that it is stupid to get rid of the NSB and the Fly train. The reform does not mean getting rid of the NSB and the Flytrain. Both will still be public property. Moreover, the purpose of the reform is not to maximise State profits, but to ensure optimal train provision. The infrastructure is very poor and causes 70 pst. of all train delays. It is quite right that the main challenges on the railways are due to poor infrastructure. The railway has not tolerated the red-green decay to which it was exposed for eight years, where the maintenance seat dredged almost doubled from 9 billion. NOK to nearly 18 billion. kr. But we have ambitions for 100 pst. by the railway. If 30 pst. by rail, better organisation can be achieved, there is indeed good reason to start the reform process. There has been a lot of focus on competitive outsourcing. It's not unexpected, but it's a little strange anyway, because it's quite common in public transport. In our area, there is no resistance to the fact that Router AS has been offering bus routes for seven to eight years. The question is, does it pay off? TØI carried out an en route assessment of the competitive outsourcing of the Gjøvik Railway. The conclusion is interesting: the operating costs are on average 12 pst. lower in the period 2007-2009 compared to the estimated cost in 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2920	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2923	In a statement in VG 4 September last year entitled ‘Go and Drive!’ and ‘Shall crush the NSB monopoly’, the chairman of the Transport Committee, Linda Hofstad Helleland, said: "We shall brush out of the tube so much toothpaste that the Ap does not get to put it back." My question to the representative Igstad is: is this the starting point for the large-scale majority now in favour, and how does the toothpaste taste that is now being squeezed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2933	The first thing that matters is that you wanted to cancel the monopoly, and that's what you were about to do. The NSB has had a monopoly, and we did not want that monopoly. But that doesn't mean you don't see that the NSB has competence to drive trains and has great advantages – that's why they used to bid at Gjøvikbanen in their time, and that's why they are now competing too fully in Sweden. So it's the monopoly that's the main focus of the opinion that the leader made on this. The second point is that we have experience that, with regard to the reforms that the bourgeois governments have done – it has largely been the ones who have done so – the Labour Party, when unfortunately they have come to power immediately afterwards, has not reversed them. We don't think they're going to do that to the reform we're about to implement now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2938	We were all gathered outside the Storting here today, where there was a large-scale selection. The railway staff mobilized heavily, and I understand that when I hear that they have been so little involved as they have been. Then I ask the representative, Mr Igstad, why would the staff not be involved before the reform was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2945	My information is that the employees have been informed along the way, and when we had the hearing in Stortinget, there were different opinions about it among the employees' organisations, because some were actually satisfied with the information they had received. I am a little surprised that you say that you have not been informed, and then you can say how much you have informed. It can also be related to the fact that if you don't get the answers you want, you often feel a little uninformed. But there's going to be a further process, and I said in my post that this is the framework, and now this is going to be implemented, and then there will be processes where the employees get the information they need in relation to the applicable rules, the work environment law, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2950	The representative Igstad has a long experience with Akershus County, which includes: is the owner of parts of Ruter together with the Municipality of Oslo. In Ruter, Akershus and Oslo, it has been chosen not to compete with tram operations, and it has been retained with monopoly precisely because it has been concluded that it is not reasonable to launch competition. Then the question is, why in the world does the giant representative, the former county representative, Istad think that what was not suitable for the Sporvey and for the Router in Oslo, is tremendous to do for the NSB throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2955	I guess that's because, as the county rapporteur in Akershus, I didn't have any power over the tram in Oslo, it's an Oslo company. As a customer, I am very interested that I get the right price on my Router ticket. If you look at the composition of my Router ticket, it's 12 pst. railway, 32 pst. The track, 1 pst. boat and 45 pst. bus. The bus is under competition, but I think Ruter has a challenge when they're going to trade up 55 pst. of its service in a public monopoly without the possibility to compete if that monopoly has the right price. I as a customer would be interested to know about the 1740 kroner I pay for the period card, in fact the price I have to pay, and that the service is the best I can get. It's kind of the monopoly problem that when we deal with 55 pst. in a monopoly, we don't know for sure if the price of the monthly ticket is going to be the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2962	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e2966	Today, thousands of rail people have demonstrated, demonstrated, against the government's privatisation reform. The employees on the railway are happy in the railway and happy in their job. Now they're worried about good reason. Should a prescribe medicine, it's an advantage first to make a diagnosis, but it doesn't want the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party. It reminds me a little bit of him older man in my hometown during my childhood who, no matter what happened to him, swore to Dispril. Dispril helped everything, he meant. For this government, it's privatisation that's medicine, privatisation is right medicine, anyway. I used the term "diagnosis". Rather, let's use a more parliamentary language and say that the challenge on today's rail is not that we have too few traffic companies, but that we have too much old and too much single-track railway. When the travellers today experience delays and settings, this is usually due to track errors. High levels of single track and old technical installations make an attractive train offer difficult in many places. Therefore, the most important railway policy approach is to increase investment for the construction of new tracks while maintaining existing tracks. It does not help what the company is called, or whether the vehicles are red, blue or yellow when the track is not working. In order to ensure rapid deployment and good use of resources, the Railway Agency should be modernised and streamlined. Planning capacity needs to be increased and competences need to be strengthened in key areas. In the view of the Workers' Party, the NSB must also be strengthened as a transport company. Modernisation of train equipment is central to the reinforcement of train operation. Mistakes on trains are the main cause of the delays and settings caused by the NSB itself, and there are more errors on the old trains than on the new trains. Therefore, in the short term, the NSB option on the purchase of an additional 70 Flirt trains must be triggered. It will require state guarantees, and that is what the Workers' Party believes the State must provide. After the Nordlandsbanen was completed in 1962, no new railway sections were built in Norway until the Oslotunnel was completed in 1980, and the Gardermobanen in 1999 – two new 40 year routes. The 1970s and 1980s were the decade of private cars in Norway. As I said, in 1999, the Gardermoban was finished as Norway’s first high-speed rail. The Gardermoban and the Flytrain were an important reason why the red-green government decided in 2005 to start the major reconstruction of the railway. Within a few years, the Railway Agency’s investment budget was doubled, and soon double tracks on the Railway and new double tracks between Lysaker and Asker were opened. An improved train offer was established both on the Sandnes-Stavanger route and on the West Corridor. The number of passengers has increased on both routes and the NSB is now experiencing a heavy passenger growth in Rome after the establishment of the 10-minute Lillestrøm-Asker route and three departures per hour Eidsvoll-Dramen. Small current has become the third largest railway station in Norway measured in number of passengers, and Eidsvoll Works Station has had a passenger growth of 60 pst. in the last few years. The railway effort over the last 10 years has produced results. In recent years, train provision has improved significantly, punctuality has increased, fewer trains have been cancelled, many more trips by train, and customer satisfaction has increased. Why should we make it as difficult as the government is now adding up to? We have to see what has worked: it's building more railways. If you travel to Lillestrøm station today and ask, you will only meet satisfied train passengers. But if you travel to Hauketo or Kolbotn, you encounter dissatisfied train passengers because it is old railway with old technical equipment that results in delays and settings. Why should we make this so complicated? We know that the solution is to build more new railways. We have to increase the appropriations for railway infrastructure, and then we have to have some ambitions for the railway instead of just talking about structure, units, companies and what it might be. What do we really want with the railway? What's the mass mass of the railway going to do? Well, the railway simply needs to be developed to take more parts of the volume of transport for those who use the train for daily work trips. Here the train can play a special role in the East and along the Railway, the Voseban, the Trander Railway and the Salt Pendulum. The railway offer must be extended so that trains can be a real alternative on the Oslo-Trondheim, Oslo-Bergen, Oslo-Stockholm, Oslo-Gøteborg, Oslo-Kristiansand routes and, in the long term, Oslo-Stavanger. After several years of growth in rail freight traffic at the beginning of the 2000s, developments have been negative in recent years. There is a need for an effort to get more goods from road to rail. The government and the bulk of the population require the wrong medicine. The result is a more fragmented railway, with new directorates, new companies and new companies. The working party is not opposed to reorganisations. We reorganised and established the Railway Agency in 1996, but if we are to reorganize, it must be in order to get a better offer and not because of ideological principles, as we now see. The information submitted bears the hallmark that ideological thought goods are being presented. One expects and assumes a number of times, but has very little concrete reference to, for example. experience from other countries, which has made the government and the bulk of the population now share. In fact, in the Storing Communication, there is a chapter called «Quantitative Effects» – I stress: «Quantitative Effects». That chapter doesn't contain a single number, so it's called Quantitative Effects. It would have been a good idea to present something like this. It's all political and it's not professionally justified at all. The railway was reorganized in 1966. If we're going to learn from that reorganisation, it has to be that there's become a lot of different entities and companies on the railroad. Is the solution to split up even more? Is the solution to create even more units and companies? No, it's wrong. We should rather collect instead of split up even more. And why is it that large railway countries such as Germany, Austria, France and Switzerland believe that the coordination of train traffic, infrastructure and route planning is the solution to generate growth for the railways? Research also shows that countries with integrated railways consistently perform better results in terms of traffic growth and better train provision than countries that have split up the railways. Experience from all European countries is that there are not primarily organisational changes, but the willingness to use money on the railways to decide whether the railways are going well or not. The experience of large-scale privatisation, as in the United Kingdom, is not very positive. The railway notification of the Government is packed with plans for privatisation and competitive outsourcing, and it is leading the proposed proposals and measures. It is not possible for the Workers' Party to be involved, even if there are positive individual elements in the message. We want more coordination and therefore promote proposals, together with the Centre Party, to establish an integrated model. The working party wishes to establish that the NSB is to be strengthened and further developed and that the Flytrain is not to be sold, and also proposes it together with the Centre Party. Finally, let me sum up the working party's ten points for a better railway. That's that. build more modern rail offer the travellers several departures buy several new trains strength NSB as a modern transport company have joint responsibility for trains and rail say no to the privatisation of the railway works give the railway works greater authority and executive say no to the sale of the flight train say yes to collecting ownership of stations in the railway works say no to social dumping on the railways Finally, I would like to address the three minority proposals referred to in the vote, from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3023	The representative Sverre Myrli has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3028	The representative Myrli spoke about visions for the railway. Then I thought, what visions did the Workers' Party have in the eight years of their power? They had the opportunity to come up with proposals for reorganisation, because it is clear that they have not been quite satisfied with the state of things either, and they point out that it is necessary to do something both with the railway station and with the NSB. But what they end up with is perhaps the most concrete, is a wide range of proposals for individual actions in the rail sector in Norway, and I wonder: how long will the quite many railway projects they are now setting up be carried out over? Do they have a plan for how to implement it, and at what rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3033	First of all, I don't think I used the term visions, but I talked about ambitions -- to the extent that there's any difference. I think ambitions are more concrete. We did a number of things when we took over the government in 2005. First of all, we stopped the construction of employees at the railway station that the former government had contracted. Fortunately, we got it stopped and got the competence of the Railway Agency strengthened. We doubled the investments to the Railway Agency, we tripled the total budget of the Railway Agency, we gave more money to plan and build more railways. We have opened up project funding, for example: by Follobanen, and we put in place a number of measures to simply get more speed in the development of the railway, build more railways and maintain more railways. And that's what's the point of the Workers' Party: it's not possible to see those things apart. There is a link between train operation and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3040	I want to repeat some of my questions, because I am not really satisfied with the answer. We have heard that the Labour Party is talking about a rail reform, but nothing has been done. We have also had investigations for lightning trains, but nothing was done. Eight years of red-green government did not lead to anything, as I see it. Now the Red-Greens with the Workers' Party at the head have at least for the last ten years to figure out what their railway reform or plans should be like. Eight years in government and two years in opposition – I have not seen anything yet. In other words, it shows that they are not on track. Therefore, my questions will be: When will the Workers' Party's alternative railway reform be on the track? Does the Workers' Party have any plans at all, and when do they get out of the siding?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3045	It is kind of cute that the representative asks with a pre-written question where she opens up saying that she is not satisfied with the answer I gave to the previous line. I can repeat what I said: our approach is that we have to build more railways, more double tracks on the railway, to get a better train running. And when the Voucher says that nothing happened at all, I think she really doesn't mean it when she thinks about it. The budgets were doubled, a lot of double tracks were built – I can mention Lysaker – Asker, Jærbanen, Vestfoldbanen, and then the credit can take a trip up along Mjösa and see the large extension that is now taking place along Mjösa on the Dovrebanen. That's the solution to the future railway. We want to continue this, and then we also want to make certain organizational changes, but they have to go in the opposite direction. We want to gather more and promote proposals to the government to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3050	The Labour Party has presented this reform as if it were about the nearest slaughter of the NSB. In my opinion, it's far from the truth, and I feel that it's on the verge of running horror propaganda. Geir Isaksen says to NTB May 5th this year: «Those travelling by rail today do not receive a good enough offer. The NSB is concerned that the reform will contribute to improving the delivery of trains for customers and the more efficient use of the resources invested in the railway.’» The NSB group manager is completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3062	I have not seen anyone from the Workers' Party use the term ‘slaughtered NSB’, but myself and others have used the term ‘wing cutting’ by NSB. And I mean that, because we want to see an NSB in the future that's just a normal transport company in line with others who had to compete. The notification states that the NSB should not have any specific advantages — yes, in fact, one with what is contained in the material disposition notification is causing the NSB disadvantages in the competitive situation to others who had to submit tenders for what is being tendered. So you're so busy by the majority to get other actors in there that you're willing to cut the NSB -- NSB shouldn't have any special advantages. We want to go the other way, we want to strengthen the NSB, keep the NSB as the dominant and major power company within the railway, feed the NSB more material and further develop it as a strong company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3067	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3070	The government has provided for a significant upgrading of the rail sector through the State budgets over the last two years. The appropriations increase by more than 14 pst. for 2015. There will be more money for investment and planning new projects. We have had several departures on the important passenger train routes, and for the first time in many decades, the maintenance run on the railway is reduced after continuous growth during the previous government. It is a projected lag in the renewal of the rail sector of an estimated 17 billion. kr. In addition, there will be the need to renew the signalling systems. The work on the reduction of maintenance seats is now under way by the government. But we want more than just reduction. We believe that the entire maintenance run needs to be removed. It doesn't help to be good at building new things if you leave what you already have, rust away. That is why, in the context of the work on the new NTP, we have now launched a strategy to phase out the delays in maintenance. Why is this so important in the context of rail reform? Degradation and old infrastructure lead to an unnecessary number of downtimes and delays. Infrastructure deficiencies weaken the competitiveness of the train at a time when we need the opposite. If we're going to be able to get away from the significant transport growth we're going to get around the urban areas, this has to work. The Government shall strengthen the competitiveness of the railway as a transport option for commuters around the major urban areas and not least for freight transport over longer journey distances. That's why we have, among other things, increased the number of take-offs on the main passenger train sections in order to make the offer more flexible. Should the train become the preferred option as everyday transport for more people, it does not just keep with more money. It is also necessary to establish a framework around the railway that ensures that we get enough rail out of all the money being invested. The basic rail challenge is well documented. However, if this is to be effectively resolved, it is necessary to modernise the framework conditions that give clear responsibilities. We must invite all good forces, including in the private sector, to join in shaping the Norwegian rail sector of the future. Today's railway organisation, as it has been, has been stuck since 1996, and we all know what the main challenges are. They are well-known: unclear responsibilities and lack of incentives to address the offer. Despite this, the red-green government chose to face the future backwards – no change in eight consecutive years. We have had a complete drought of reform in the transport sector in those years. Maybe it was because the Senterpartiet, who was in the Ministry of Transport, was afraid that a bet on community services in the cities would have gone beyond districts and roads. Maybe that's why. So it became nada. With a new government, the necessary changes are now coming into a good community between the government and the cooperation parties at Stortinget. We now have both a road reform and a rail reform. We need to expand a lot of new infrastructure in the coming years, and we need to take better care of what we have already built. Then we need a more general and long-term management of the sector than we have today. We keep the authority tasks of the Railway Agency. Today, the Railway Agency has too much tension in its tasks. The Directorate will have a central position in the management and not least in the coordination of the sector, by, for example, being the purchaser of infrastructure and development services as well as the purchaser of train transport. We are setting up something completely new – an infrastructure company. Yeah, that's a heavy word, but this is just a beginning. A wide range of operational tasks will be carried out here. The entity will have a task as a provider of functional railway infrastructure and will provide the building owner with the function of important development projects. The entity shall be granted operational freedom and incentives for efficient operation. In shaping the rail sector of the future, it is important that we include all good forces in society, both public and private. Private suppliers are being used in the railway sector today. This is good, but we believe that the possibility of providing us with more innovative and efficient transport services needs to be exploited more. We do this in most other parts of the transport sector, with good results. The Gjøvik Railway is currently the only passenger train section with which several actors have been invited. Experiences from this route are very good. This is something we want to develop further to other parts of passenger traffic and passenger train network. One of our main reasons for doing this is that we wanted the searchlight to be more focused on the customer's needs. We want a more customized train offer, and experience from other social sectors shows us that getting more service providers into a diversity gives us the best possible service innovation. We want more people living around the big cities to want to use the trains. If this is to be done, we have to make sure that train provision is so flexible and customer-oriented that it fits into people's everyday lives. We believe that the track until several train users do not go through regulation and coercion, but by providing train providers with the best conditions to compete. Then it's up to them to make their offer attractive to most people — including co-operating a ticketing system. Too many people want the car and road to be the only possible practical means of transport in their everyday lives. A more flexible train service that puts customer needs first will lead to far more than today preferring the train to its daily transport, of its own free will. We are betting on carrots and not whips, simply because the train provides the transport services most efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3098	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3102	The Progress Party has a very strong belief in competitive outsourcing. We've seen that in a lot of things. And my question to the representative Michaelsen is really quite specific: what makes the Progress Party think that it is going to succeed in splitting up and correcting the market, such as the railways. Sweden and the United Kingdom have done where they see rather discouraging results so far? And when large countries like Germany and France do the opposite, why does the representative think it's going to be so good in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3107	We mean, first of all, that we don't split up, but re-distributors. We target – we make clear goals to be achieved – and we distinguish not least between the governing body and the executive body. We actually see that competition works. If you take NSB on the route between Oslo and Karlstad and buy a regular ticket, it costs about one way. NOK 490. If you take the other way and buy a ticket with the Värmlandsbanen, which goes in the opposite direction, from Karlstad to Oslo, the same ticket costs NOK 179. Cooperating this, where customers are put in focus and can make a choice, we want much more. Then you have to look at this a little bit like you have in aviation: by being a provider on a route, you can offer a better offer, so you make it attractive for the customer to choose – not so that the state chooses for the customer. Here, the customer shall focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3116	The majority now propose the creation of a new directorate, a new company and more new companies on the railway. Is the Progress Party proud to contribute to such growth in administrative units? And is the representative not afraid that more of the resources are now going to go to bureaucracy, and therefore less to provide rail to passengers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3121	First, I'm really glad that the Workers' Party is as busy as the Advance Party that we're not going to have a bureaucracy that just keeps getting bigger and bigger. I'm very pleased that we're on track to reduce bureaucracy, and we're absolutely doing that. As I also said to the representative who had the first question, we want to redeploy the tasks. Here it's not about splitting up, it's about redistributing. So it can actually be that we can in the long run view this in a much larger context, in a slightly more transport-wide context. Perhaps one in the long term should combine parts of the State Road Service with the new Directorate, for example. It will also give us an opportunity to see socio-economic profitability in relation to the road versus the road. I think we're gonna be able to keep control of the bureaucracy. And then I'm sure by being able to set clear targets, it's much easier to cut red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3130	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3133	Considerable population growth is expected in Norway over the next decades. This creates an increased need for transport. Not least in and around the largest cities. We have a great untapped potential on the freight side, and with the shortening of travel time by rail between several of the larger cities, the railway will appear as an attractive alternative also on the longer distances. In the climate agreement, we have committed ourselves to taking the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors. In this context, and in the interests of accessibility and rail as a powerful and land-efficient means of transport, the train appears to be the central solution to the transport challenges of the future. That is why the Christian People's Party supports this proposal for rail reform – because we want to make the transport offer represents the railway, more important for more customers on the passenger and freight side. At the same time, it is important on the part of the Christian People's Party to stress what is a premise for the reform, that the railway should be a public responsibility. The decision on where to go and on how often to go should continue to be taken by bodies under political control, in order to meet the needs of society and users. Business economic assessments shall not determine where and when the train is to go and the infrastructure shall be owned by the Norwegian State. So it's important that we in the work of facilitating the railway make it more important for more people to take care of what works well today. Then I'd like to mention the most important thing first, namely security. No one can doubt that the safety of Norwegian railways is very good. Also regularity and punctuality are moving in the right direction, with a punctuality achievement of more than 90 pst. in recent years. What, then, is the reason for making changes? Let me mention some key reasons. There is a strong consensus that there is an inappropriate and partly unclear division of tasks within the railway sector today. It is a combination of authority tasks and operational tasks. The railway works are both an authority body and a supplier of the main input factor of the train companies: a well-functioning infrastructure. Responsibility for railway property is another area where there has been a shared ownership between the Railway Agency and Rome Property in the NSB, a division that has created challenges for, for example: node development. The development of the property stock has not been sufficiently viewed in an overall context. Activities have had different objectives and disagreements have arisen. The railway sector currently has weak incentive mechanisms. Today's funding system contains few incentives to keep the railway open for traffic. The railway sector has had too much focus on individual elements of railway policy, such as: linked to specific train departures and departure times. We need an increased customer focus. A railway to be put into service by an increasing number of people and owners of goods in the years to come needs incentives to strengthen customer focus. There is a need for better coordination between rail and other collective activities in metropolitan areas in particular, but also across the rest of the country. There is a clear need to coordinate the ticket system and fares and information across collective services and across county boundaries, so that travel is as seamless as possible for the traveller. In this area, the Ministry of Transport has a responsibility for the development of the necessary tools with a clear allocation of responsibilities and sufficient capacity and competence of those responsible. The establishment of a Directorate directly under the Ministry of Transport transfers to the new Directorate the tasks of authority formerly in the Railway Agency. This will then have a central role in strategic planning, professional support to the Ministry of State Budget, overall responsibility for operation and maintenance, the purchase of transport services and the management of economic instruments. Through the grips that are now being done, it is well-placed for us to be able to think even more completely in the future. The transport system is complex, and everything is related to everything. We need a more comprehensive development of the transport system and the whole transport sector, so that we can make even better use of the different modes of transport, so that it is as seamless as possible for road users. That must be the goal. That is why, in the Christian People's Party, it is an exciting approach on the part of the ministry to assess whether what is now being done can form the basis for establishing a cross-sectoral transport directorate for both rail and road. Then we're not talking about this happening right away. Here we have to take the evolution step by step. But in the long run, you should look at this. In the last growing-up period, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative to investigate just a common transport state. Not least in terms of strategic planning to see road and rail in context and to solve the transport challenges of the future, we think it might be a good idea to get through a cross-sectoral directorate. I would also like to stress that although this is an administrative body directly under the Ministry of Transport, it is important that it becomes an actor with a framework and opportunities to initiate and develop new initiatives. There is a need for a directorate that may be at the forefront of development, both in terms of public transport and rail, in view of the increased transport needs that will arise. The establishment of a separate infrastructure undertaking to own, manage, operate, maintain and renew the railway infrastructure, as well as to carry out traffic management and management of property, we believe that a good deal is being done to coordinate and pool tasks that are not within the area of competence. It is important to stress that as part of the new state entity, ROM Property remains a collective, professional property manager, enabling values to be created and to develop collective nodes. This must be done through a comprehensive management of values through interaction with private and public actors. Operational development projects may be sold when the market is present and when the owner receives the best return on capital invested. Whenever one in the notification states that there will be gradual competition for passenger services on trains, it is a question of contributing to the creation of the best possible train service for customers. From the Christian People's Party this is not about ideology, but about the possibility of developing an even better train product for the customer. Train companies have a self-interest in retaining and attracting new customers and developing the travel experience for the traveller. However, it is essential that this is done in stages. It is important that one uses the experience of the competitive outlooks before a next step and that one and one package be out of the way. It should also be a prerequisite that the structure of the new reform is in place before the start of the competitive outsourcing on the first route. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that you still have a strong NSB, a state company that can be a central player in the Norwegian market. It has therefore been essential that NSB AS be continued as a combined transport company consisting of NSB passenger trains, Train Company AB, NSB Gjøvikbanen, Nettbuss, CargoNet and group and joint functions, 100 pst. owned by the State. Opening up the possibility of multiple passenger train operators on the road, as well as opting for the use of several private operators in operation and maintenance, we believe that we can also have a good impact on the development of new solutions. The proposal for a new organisation facilitates better coordination and coordination. The opposition calls the new organisational model "splitting," but I'm going to say that it's actually the opposite that's proposed. A new railway directorate with concentrated planning resources will see the development of infrastructure in the context of future route production and material needs. A new road charging scheme and the introduction of a performance scheme strengthens coordination between infrastructure companies and train operators. A collection of all property in the infrastructure company, where the professional management environment of ROM Property is at the heart of this collective new environment, avoids the type of conflict that has previously occurred, for example: for the development of node functions. Then it is important to add: a reorganization of the railway is not enough to make the railway better and more important for more people. We are very aware that being able to develop the railway to something better than you have today also requires the allocation of financial resources. Over the last two financial years, the four cooperation parties have shown their willingness to invest in the railway through increased investment, operation and maintenance appropriations. For the Christian People's Party, it is vital that this resource effort for the railway should increase in the years ahead. We have a big maintenance run to take it back. For the first time in more than 15 years, we're starting to take up some of the lag in 2015. At the same time, we have experienced in this period that the appropriations for the railways have increased. It also did so in the previous period, and I'd like to give the red-green honey for that. That was good – that was very good. At the same time, in the Christian People's Party, we experienced talking for deaf ears every time we proposed radical action. We want renewal. It's important that we now think about the future. The railway must become more important for more people. Now the grips that the Christian People's Party has fought for a long time. That's good, and it happens in good cooperation with an offensive government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3187	In the notice of employees, the government boasts: ‘The day’s employees are the main resource to make a successful transition in the sector. The government will therefore focus on having an inclusive and predictable process for its employees.» What have you done in the process so far? At least the LO was clear during the hearing that they were not involved. They are even called to the meeting now after we have made a decision – 17 June, i.e. after treatment. Employees were informed on the same day as the Minister, Right, Left and Christian People's Party held its press conference on 11 May. So here the government is adding up to a large-scale reorganization without listening to the employees. The employees are overrun, and we were told this with all clarity outside today. No, there should be more time, not least for employees. Why is it so busy? Is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the way this matter has been forced through in express travel, or is it such that one is affected by the feedback that has been received today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3201	The fact that there should be a reform in the railway sector has been known for a long time, even though one has not been directly familiar with the specific content. So it couldn't have come as a surprise. I believe that a proposed reform creates expectations, but it also creates uncertainty – where should this country? I think it is important then to clarify, so that employees and others involved do not live in uncertainty over many, many months. Otherwise, we have had normal consultation processes in Stortinget, as has been the case with other reforms. I feel that politically it has been possible to make recordings throughout the process. The different parties have had the opportunity to meet the different groups, so I feel that we've taken care of this. So of course you could want even more time, I could be open to that, but I feel like we've been doing this in a manner that's proper.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3208	Competitive outsourcing is going to happen in the package, and we're aware that it's going to extend over a little bit of time. My question concerns long-distance traffic, which is unlikely to be as attractive to operate. If the NSB loses the revenues of the most profitable sections of competing companies, the question is, how are we going to secure the long-distance traffic that is today and that we believe is an important part of the rail service we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3215	Firstly, I would like to say that the first step, and what is the most important thing to put in place now, is the new structure around how to organise the railway – with the directorate, with state enterprises and clearing in terms of authority tasks and operational tasks. As regards the outsourcing of competition, it seems important to take this step by step. You have to do some experience before you take the next step. In this whole arrangement that we've put up to now, together with the three other cooperation parties, it's about buying services. Purchases will not be reduced even if you want to compete. So we think that government purchases actually have to increase in the future in order to ensure good deals for customers. And competitive outsourcing is not part of an action or strategy to make purchases from the state less important in the future than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3223	The launching of the railway has been tested on goods. Since 2007/2008 there has been a decline in goods transported by rail. How would the representative say that the competitive outsourcing of freight has been a success?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3228	Competitive placing of goods in itself is not an instrument that alone leads to more goods being transferred to the railway. What you've seen lately – and as I hear when I talk to those who are responsible for goods, and I ask why the railway is not used – is that it's about the railway's lack of punctuality, too many stoppages, which makes regularity not good. So my opinion is that if you manage to get to a higher degree of regularity, that the goods are delivered at the right time, the interest in using the rail for goods will also increase. So I think the outsourcing here has actually had less to say for the development that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås presents, and that is absolutely worrying. Here, I think we need to put in other measures. That is why we believe that the reorganisation we are now proposing, together with increased resources for maintenance and new investments, will be what is needed to bring more goods onto the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3235	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3238	First, on behalf of the Centre Party, I would like to say that there has been an unfair procedure in this case. Treating such a major and fundamental case in less than four weeks is not a proper procedure. Train transport is important to many, tens of thousands of people commute into and out of our cities by train where there is a train offer. Railways are an efficient and environmentally friendly mode of transport. The centre party believes that the railway must be upgraded and take more of the volume of transport for those using the train for daily travel. Then it is important to develop the train offer also on the slightly longer distances that can build larger regions and parts of the country together. The centre batch will increase the capacity and regularity of freight transport throughout the country. More goods must be placed on the track and on the keel. The centre party believes that the government's proposal to reintroduce a general road tax on the railway will result in even more goods and timber being transported on the road ahead. That's not exactly the direction we want to go. The railway policy must be designed in such a way as to create an attractive and modern train offer for passengers and freight. The aim is that trains should be the preferred option on the routes operated. There will be great demands on those responsible for the track and on those responsible for the train traffic, and there will be a need for good coordination between the two. If the railway is to function optimally, long-term planning is needed, gradually larger investments both in operation and maintenance and in initial investment, and overall thinking. Therefore, the railway sector must have clear political governance and clear requirements. Splitting and market alignment over time has not given the railway sector the necessary promise, and the government will take this development further in the wrong direction. While Norway is now adapting rail to EU competition requirements, resistance has been high in many EU countries. Countries such as France, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium, Ireland, Luxembourg and Austria have chosen not to comply with EU infrastructure-to-train separation requirements, but have retained an integrated model. Many of these countries are considered the world's leading railway field. Most people also have little competition in passenger traffic. The centre party believes that splitting up Railway Norway even more is the wrong way to go. An integrated solution should be put together between the NSB and the Railway Agency. Research shows that countries with integrated railways consistently perform better results in terms of traffic growth and better train provision than countries that have split up the railways. Sweden and the United Kingdom have gone the opposite way, with a split up of the railways. The Swedish railway system is now characterised by a lot of delays, dissatisfied customers and partly chaotic conditions of operation and maintenance. The UK railway has a very high cost level compared to other European countries and low customer satisfaction. Experience from all European countries is that there are not primarily organisational changes, but the willingness to spend money on the railways that determine whether the railways are going well or not. The railway operation over the last 10 years has produced results. In recent years, train provision has improved significantly, punctuality has increased, fewer trains have been cancelled, many more trips by train, and customer satisfaction has increased. It is important that this bet continues and that the authorities have the opportunity to ensure the quality of the offers offered by the NSB and the Flytrain. Means of operating and maintaining railway infrastructure must be maintained at a high level, so that the maintenance drivage is re-established and eliminated. The centre party wants to keep both the NSB and the Fly train in the state ownership. The NSB must be strengthened and further developed as a modern transport company owned by the State. The superstructure between the Railway Agency and the NSB must be established to give us an integrated model. The main advantage of this is that one is given the opportunity to see infrastructure and passenger services as a whole. Equipment and materials could then be used flexibly and quickly to meet traffic challenges. A clear challenge with competitive outsourcing is that it is shared between different companies, so that it cannot be exploited to the maximum. An integrated company will have the strength and strength to take action quickly and efficiently where necessary. The launch of competition could significantly weaken the offer on the low-traffic routes in this country. It will not be as interesting to drive trains on all sections of Norway. It is likely to be more attractive to operate on the Gardermoban and the most trafficked routes, but not as attractive to all. If the NSB loses the revenues from the most profitable sections of competing companies, there will be less money in the pot currently used by the NSB to make an overall offer, and that is not a good solution. Nor does the centre party authorise the sale of shares in the Flytrain, the company must be state owned – it is a success story from A to Å. This privatisation will affect many of the incredibly skilled and dedicated employees, who will have worse working conditions. That's not a good solution. So the Center Party says yes to a forward-looking railway – and no to fragmentation and privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3276	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3279	When we were outside the house today, we got a dramatic story about how goods on the track had evolved, and how difficult it was for CargoNet to keep order in the house. This was a competitive outing that was launched under the red-green government. I wonder – if this was an experience that the Center Party was told about while they were in government, why didn’t they stop when the privatisation, the competition that had started?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3284	There are many reasons why there are not as many goods on the track as it should have been, among other things. is it from many companies pointed out that it is very cheap to carry on the road. When we were in Gothenburg, they said that the reason why there was no more goods went from Gothenburg to Oslo was that the profitability of taking it on the road was so great that they chose to do so. I think we have to look at a lot of different measures if we're to make sure that the amount of goods goes up. The most important thing we can do is to ensure that the maintenance and regularity of the railway are improved. Then more people will come back and choose the railway as an attractive offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3289	The working party recently launched in the media, and on its website, its 10-point railway plan, which the representative Myrli repeated in his post. In retrospect, the Centre Party has supported these proposals. The centre party also acknowledges that there is a need to do something about today's railway, but they have no own proposals and no specific comments of their own, they just follow the Workers' Party. The Central Party has had the Minister of Transport for eight years and should obviously know well about today's organisation and operation of the railway. Is there, then, the willingness or ability to find action when the Central Party does not have its own suggestions for improvement, or is it only used to be overrun by the Workers' Party in matters of transport, and is it therefore only easier to follow them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3296	The centre party, the Workers' Party and SV have had good cooperation and have had it for eight years. There's no reason why we shouldn't keep having it even if we're in opposition. We've been talking about the points in the reform we're dealing with now, and the same thing in the previous case. We support the proposal that has been put forward, and believe that the most important step we can take is to invest in both long-term maintenance and new routes. Then there's a long-term work that's going to be in place to get the railway even better upgraded than it is today. What the majority are doing today is going the opposite way, and at least it won't lead to better railways for anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3301	The centre party will have more long-termity and predictability in its transport policy, we have heard today. So far we're very much in agreement. Liv Signe Navarsete spoke in his time that there was a need for a system reform on both the road and the track. When Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was Minister of Transport, she set up a selection to solve the railway challenges, which concluded that something had to be done about the railway. The Committee pointed to solutions such as competition, private capital and other sector organisation. In the setting we are dealing with today, it is difficult to find the will for neither new grip nor long-term from the Center Party. On the contrary, the Center Party writes that one wants an even more detailed political management of the railway, even more detailed management. Has the Center Party given up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3308	The central party has in no way abandoned its transport policy and sees the importance of focusing both on long-term and short-term measures. One of the suggestions in this case is that we want to look at a superstructure between the NSB and the Railway Agency. We think that's the right medicine. It's one thing that the Center Party thinks will be important. We also want to bet on the railway, we lifted the railway into our alternative budget last, and will do so, both on maintenance and investment. There is a larger investigation into the concept selection for electrification of the remaining sections of the track. It's an ambition we have that it should be in place. It will be a climate-friendly policy to get something done with the old diesel locomotives, and it will be important for freight if we get even better development of the long sections of the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3314	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3317	Initially, I thought to say that the committee has been very lucky to have such an expert case rapporteur, and I would like to thank him for the thorough work he has done on the vote. Railways must be the preferred travel option for business and for people whose railway is an alternative. It's an ambitious goal, and it requires us to do a lot. It requires that we upgrade and maintain the infrastructure. It requires a smarter organisation of the sector. It requires an attractive route offer. The left and the three other cooperation parties have increased the appropriations for the renewal and maintenance of existing rail. This means that the Railway Agency designates 2015 as the ‘first major maintenance year’ and the first year of a long time during which the maintenance run on the railway is reduced. The fact that the appropriations have risen to such a high level allows us to think again about how we organise the maintenance. For the first time, it is suggested that renewal and maintenance can be done in a distance and completely – not in a cluttered and split manner. In addition, new tracks and new tracks are planned and built, which will provide the basis for an even better offer a little longer in time. I am proud that we are spending record sums on train provision and railway infrastructure. I am proud that more people have received better rail services in the last two years. I am proud that the increased commitment to maintenance will result in less delays and better offers for passengers and for goods. All of this is because we grant more money, and we grant the measures we know to work. But it's an important thing: money alone does not solve the challenges in the railway sector. Money alone does not create a better train offer for you and me or for the business that should have transported their goods. That is why the Left has long wanted to reorganise the Norwegian railway. We proposed this several times in the previous magnification period, but we were downhearted. Now we have spent a long time negotiating with the government parties and have come to a good first step on the road towards a smarter organized railway sector. A rail reform makes no sense without providing a better train service for people. That is what this reform is doing. The most important feature of the Left has been the establishment of a unit to work on route models and coordination with other public transport services, by setting objectives and planning how the train offer should be in the long term. It has not been done before in Norway. We have planned the route, but have not seen everything in a whole based on how the train offer should be to and from Rognan, Steinkjer, Egersund, Hokksund and Sandvika in 5–10–25–50 years. These route models will form the basis for prioritizing the resources for maintenance and renewal, for new major development projects, for the purchase of train sets and, in particular, for the frequency with which the country will purchase on each route. This will again appear in a better train service to us passengers, where our current and future needs will be the basis for which improvements are made. Another important act of cooperation is the joint establishment of an infrastructure unit. This unit shall be responsible for the entire infrastructure, including trains and stations. That's good. There are today unclear responsibilities in the railway sector, and uniting ownership will place the whole responsibility of the new unit. This also allows us to see more clearly stations, infrastructure and route services in the context. It would be natural for the new infrastructure unit to use property and capital to provide more park and ride solutions, to create attractive station areas and to contribute to the consolidation of station areas. We in the left think it's useful and know that it's necessary to see all of this in a context. There is also a great need to get an overview of the actual state of the infrastructure. Work has been started on monitoring the state, which can thus provide a basis for action to be taken in the coming years. The infrastructure unit must have a high degree of freedom to prioritize its resources where they will be most useful, in order to provide passengers and business with the train offer planned in the shorter and longer term. For the left, it would be natural for the infrastructure unit to have multiannual budgets and the possibility to raise loans under the same conditions as the road operator. This will help to ensure that we get more railways built in the coming years. Some have argued in the debate that rail reform is an urgent task that will not provide better train provision. I disagree with them. It is crucial to put in place a new way of thinking about the railways in Norway. We have to plan for the long term. We have to believe that the railway could be the preferred transport option where it exists, and it has to be organised in such a way that this idea can be put into practice. That is what the Workers' Party and the Centre say no when they are in practice voting against the whole reform. It's sad, but there's also an opportunity for us in the left to clarify some things. Firstly, the objective of the reform is twofold – point 1: better provision of trains for travellers and business, and point 2: smarter organisation of the sector, ensuring that we use resources properly – nothing else. Secondly, no one aims at weakening the rights of workers in this reform – and I say no one. The left has worked for and will continue to work to ensure good pension conditions for those working on the railway today. We will ensure that the railway is an attractive job for everyone, whether it be engineers or drivers, whether it be traffic controllers or maintenance workers. Long-term plans make workplaces safer, especially for those working on infrastructure and maintenance. It's been downkills – it's sad. There have been downsizing and closure of companies in the railway sector in recent years, because the red-green government has not been able to create good, predictable framework conditions. I believe that predictability and the framework are now coming back. Thirdly, today's decision does not imply what the Workers' Party calls the privatisation of the railway. The NSB will still be a strong State owned transport company. The infrastructure is brought together in a State entity which will aim to strengthen and promote rail as a means of transport. At the same time, through the budgets, we have shown that we are actually prioritizing the purchase of multiple train take-offs, that we are giving priority to reducing the maintenance run, that we are planning to expand new infrastructure with public money. The state's response in the railway field is large, and will increase, because it is important. It's important for the railway itself. It's important for the climate. It is important for urban and urban development. It's important for business. And most importantly, it helps make it easier for us all to live our lives: travel, commute and get goods where we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3355	The Left and Christian People's Party is involved in securing the majority of the government for the railway reform – all parts of it. It's got a lot of commitment. We all participated in demonstrations outside the Storting today and met the employees of the Railway family, I think I would say. On the demonstration outside Stortinget earlier today, the representative Raja said that the Left had got the government to secure the employee's pension. Then I wonder if something has happened after the Storing Message was submitted, because the employees were very dissatisfied with the pension in the message. What is the message passed on to the Left to change after the message was submitted? Could the representative Raja elaborate on this for us?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3360	It is very good that there is a great commitment to the railway reform. It's part of a great and free democracy that we can get involved. What I'm noticing is ideological differences. The main differences are whether or not to tender for the passenger offer, whether or not to put it off for competition. There we can see that we have ideological differences, and we must be able to live with that in a democracy. Right now, the bulk of the population is so that we want to open up some elements of this. In the case of pension schemes, we are clear that this should not be a deterioration for the employees of the companies now and that they should continue. That's why I'm here. The left will follow this up, and we expect that employees' pension schemes will be properly and properly maintained. At least we'll be on the ball if it turns out it wasn't going to be the way we've been thinking about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3367	Let me start by saying that I know that the left has been spending money on railway maintenance and on the railway operation in the budget that has been, and that's why I'm so sorry that the left is involved in this railway reform, because I have no faith that this means better rail. I'm going to come back to what I think it means for the Norwegian railway. But that's why I ask the following question to the Left: Will the Left demand a follow-up evaluation of the railway reform we are getting now, in the same way that we have follow-up evaluation when we close a field in a tunnel on our roads here in Oslo, so that we can see the consequences? And will the Left, if it turns out that evolution is going in the wrong direction, be willing to take a timeout and say, "Here we have to think again and see if we're going the right way?"
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3372	The left is very happy and satisfied that the position we've come into has helped us now to reduce the maintenance run on the railway, which almost increased by 1 billion. kr in the years under the red-green. So for the first time, the maintenance allowance goes down, because we're giving a lot more money to do this through the budgetary agreements we're doing with the government parties. We also see that the appropriations for the Railway Agency have increased by 50 pst. since the government change, and now they're 21 billion. kr. In the case of follow-up evaluations, or in-flight evaluations, we need to do so. What we're about to do now, nobody's done before. Then you can't put on ideological skyscrapers and get on with it. Here you have to be able to stop, take a break and see if you are on the right track. And if it turns out to be necessary, you have to adjust the rate somewhat. These are several of us who make up this majority, well talked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3379	From the moment the notification was submitted to all proposals and all comments were to be made in the Committee, it was exactly four weeks. When the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party stood on Oslo S and presented the railway reform before the Stortinget had received a single document, the representative Raja said that we agree on something, and then there is something we haven't concluded, which we're going to go on with. My question is, what has the Left and Christian People's Party not agreed with the government parties on? That's the first question. And question 2 to the old party, which has been concerned with the rule of the people and the influence of the Storting in politics: what was the reason why the reform had to be beaten through in four weeks, instead of listening to recordings, spending time and getting into the matter and dealing with the matter, for example. in October, when the Storting has better time to get into it? What was the reason for such a hurry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3384	With all due respect for the party that has the greatest uprising in the country: they showed very little respect for the other parties when they themselves were in position with a majority behind them. Almost all of the proposals that were put forward by us were simply voted down and not taken seriously. So a lesson in democracy understanding I'm not exactly ready to take here today. As far as driving this reform is concerned, yes, we have been impatient in the opposition for a long time; we are ready to carry forward the reforms. This would not be done by the Labour Party when they spent eight years with majority power. Even if they wanted to do something, they didn't know what to do. I understand that they now disagree with the way you do it, because they have complained about this for the presidency – that the deadline was not good enough, that they would have more time. So even if they were in power for eight years, this wasn't enough time. But I note that the presidency has considered this to be a proper procedure, and I assume that it is in line with the parliamentary system that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3391	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3395	In my opinion, it is unacceptable that the presidency has allowed this matter to be dealt with this year. The railway reform is a dramatic transformation of the whole way we organise the railway – without a professional basis, without an impact assessment. I join wholeheartedly in the criticism of the process that has come from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The Presidency shall be the custodian of the National Assembly against the abuse of power by the executive, not the government's sand intrusions — a government that violates all the deadlines set by the Presidency itself when matters are to be promoted in order to have them dealt with, precisely to ensure a broad democratic treatment. The result of our dealing with this matter now is less openness, less democracy, less debate and less resistance, and there might be some of the points. So to the point: today is a sad day for anyone who loves the railways in Norway – to see how bundling and coordination is the universal instrument of this government, in the case of universities and universities, in the case of municipalities, which we just debated here, but not in the case of the railways. There is a fragmentation of the railway operator NSB the most important element of the railway reform. While road reform can be summed up with more motorways, rail reform can be summed up with more tenders. Today the Right Party, the Advance Party, supported by the Left and Christian People's Party, decides to party the NSB – I'm the one using that description: a decision to party the NSB – take them away from the trains, take them from the workshops, take them off the schedule, take them from railway stations and take them off the task of driving trains. For now everything has to be put out of competition. The NSB remains as a manning company that will compete to run trains in line with many others. This is not the railway as we know it, nor is it a good idea for the future. Kåre Willoch used to say, "Why do you have to change something that works?" I think that's a good point. And the NSB is working today. The NSB is growing, in terms of both trust, punctuality and number of passengers, due to policy decisions taken over the last eight years. What does not work, in my opinion, is that those who are closest in contact with the passengers are not the ones responsible for the infrastructure. That is why we should follow what is the main trend in successful rail countries in Europe, namely to achieve an integrated railway organisation. There are two main directions in which we could go: integrated railways or fragmentation and competitive outsourcing. SV chooses the first, because it is the recipe for success for a good railway, because it is the reputable country that chooses, because it is what is best for passengers, that it is those who are closest to the passengers, who can see where the routes can be changed, who experience passengers asking for bicycle parking at the railway station, who listen to those who say how sets of vehicles can be improved to reduce washing and maintenance – because that is what is the recipe for success, and because it is best for passengers that one takes primary responsibility for the railway. In the unworthy game between the NSB and the Railway Works, which we saw during a period when the overhead lines were driven, the Railway Works could say: Yes, it is NSB's fault, perhaps it was the graphite on the pantograph that was responsible. NSB would say: No, it is the poor maintenance of the Railway Agency. However, if one wishes to keep passengers in focus, one should be responsible to the passengers. Now this becomes even more inconspicuous. Is it the operator's fault if there are delays? Is it the train maintenance that's crawling? Is it the new infrastructure company that has not done its job, or is it the new railway directorate that has created unrealistic route models? Passengers will not be in focus. It'll be chaos for the passengers. The government chooses the last, because competition is right-wing ideology. The launch of competition will hit most of the railways. It means increasing uncertainty, cutting pensions, cutting crews and cutting cleaning if we are to look at the experiences of our neighbouring country Sweden. It is unwise to believe that those who sit farthest away from the passengers, those who sit farthest in an office in the Directorate of Railways, are the best people to understand how to get a better railway. My tippole father was blacksmith and was involved in building the Countess tunnel, which was the longest railway tunnel in the time. If he can today, I think he'll turn around in the grave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3417	It was interesting to hear the contribution of the representative Holmås that the competitive outsourcing is purely ideology. I have a small question for the representative. In 2007, competition in rail freight was opened up. It would have been very interesting to hear a little about the reasons of SV for opening up competition in the freight transport at the time. I almost got the impression that competition did not work. The second question is, why haven't the six consecutive years been used to wind up that scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3426	It is possible that I am wrong, but I perceive that competition in freight was part of what was the EU's railway policy and the railway directive that we are implementing in Norway. In exactly the same way as for the fourth EU rail directive – if I do not count mistakes – this form has as a general rule competition and fragmentation of everything within the railway sector. Right, or fortunately, it's the big heavy railway country that has chosen a different path and that works to have alternative ways to organise it. I would say that we who are in Norway should work for an alternative way of organising this, by having an integrated solution, as several other leading countries in Europe have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3431	I heard the representative say he loves the train. There is no doubt that SV has a clear love for the railway, and that it is important to them. I would think that they wanted to bet even more on the railway than what happened in the eight years they were in government. The reality was, unfortunately, that the maintenance seat dredged increased by 1 billion. kr per year and doubled during that period. I choose to believe that SV struggled with beaks and claws against the development that took place in maintenance, and I am curious about which of the Workers' Party and the Center's party was depriving the maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3436	At least I am glad that it was not the Progress Party that was responsible for the maintenance. Looking at the eight years of the Progress Party brought in alternative government budgets, it was cut in operation and maintenance at that item by an estimated 1.5 billion. kr – I think it was, I don't have the number in my head. We can check the figures for the representatives of the Progress Party if he doesn't have a full overview. I think it is very important to bet on trains. In our government period, the investment on trains had higher growth in percent than the investment on the railway. In this period, it's the opposite. This is a government shaped by the Advance Party who wants to bet the most on the way. We see that clearly. We think it's important to bet most on the railway, and you could see that in the period we were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3443	The representative Holmås said that the NSB works well. I fully agree with that. NSB is now a well-run company and competes well in Sweden and otherwise, it goes very well. The problem is that the Norwegian railway is not working well. Then my question becomes: As far as the part of the case that concerns the need to bring together strategic planning – get it coordinated with the necessary investments and system-based planning so that the planning of the route is seen in the context: does SV agree that it is important to have this coordinated, and that this must be done in a railway directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3448	This is a two-part question, and I think it's a good question. The answer to the first part of the question is yes. We believe it is right to coordinate better – to get a comprehensive strategic planning. The answer to the second question is no. I don't think it's a good idea to add it to the new Directorate of Railways. I believe it is much better that it is the company that is closest to the passengers and that is in contact with the passengers every single day, which should have the overall management of how the infrastructure should be organised. That's why I'm burning for an integrated company. If the representative believes that the competitive outsourcing is the most important thing – I am not saying that the representative believes it, but it is quite obvious that it permeates the entire notification – then it is necessary to organise and move responsibility out of the companies to be outsourced and into a railway directorate. I think it's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3455	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3458	Over the last few years, consultants in the consulting industry have been waiting for a job for the Railway Agency, and there are certainly very few, because the Railway Agency has been involved in reorganization. The government is now proposing more reorganisation – and it is therefore a government that wants less bureaucracy. The Norwegian railway has been starving for many decades. The railway network has large delays in maintenance. Railway policy has obviously lacked visions, and transport policy has been lacking in its entirety and priorities. Therefore, of course, the government should be commended for increased railway appropriations and efforts to reduce delays and for the interest in better organisation of the railways. However, unlike the Greens/Greens/EFA alternative state budget, the government is still not close to meeting what the Railway Agency itself believes is the need. The government's biggest investment continues to go to more motorways. The highway is built along the railway between Oslo and Trondheim, and on the Trønderbahn both double tracks and electrification are planned, but only for one project. That's not effective; it's just expensive. The government is of the opinion that the railway reform will provide more ground for money. We believe that international experience is opposite. It will not primarily stimulate more and faster trains, better infrastructure and electrification of the remaining 1,700 kilometres by diesel rail, and it will not give more freight tracks to reorganise the rail system as proposed by the government. The father is much bigger because more money will go to administration, administration and lawyers and economists. It makes sense to bring together responsibility for the coordination, governance and development of the railway sector in an organisation, and it makes sense to involve the municipalities and municipalities more in the development of the railway system, but it does not require any new, heavy reform – it can be done in today’s system. Nor do we need a new reform to build double tracks to Tønsberg, Hamar and Fredrikstad by 2024 or to get faster trains between Oslo and Bergen. What the railway needs in Norway is priority, predictability and money, and today's organisation can do the job. During the government's launch of the rail reform, it was claimed that it would provide more trains and provide more passengers with tender opportunities, but there is no room for more passenger trains in the Norwegian network today. Between Asker and Lillestrøm there is a train every 10 minutes. Competition for running trains on full track does not give more trains. And a tender regime, with six-eight tender packages, requires resources in itself, which must be subtracted from something else. And what happens if a private train company goes bankrupt during a tendering period, as we have seen in Sweden and Denmark – does the State have to be ready with reserve trains and staff? The Green Party believes that a closer organisation of the NSB and the Railway Agency is a good measure, but the most important thing is to maintain a competent professional environment, to see the whole of the train offer and to have a comprehensive customer front. A railway country as small as Norway is hardly suitable for several train companies. The Green Party will therefore vote in favour of the three proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre for an integrated model for the organisation of the rail, strength and further development of the NSB and for keeping the Fly train at the hands of the Community. We're not doing this because we're ideologically bound to state solutions. We do this because heavy international experience — and Norwegian experience — suggests that funds for the railways in Norway will be used more effectively, unless there is a risk of unnecessary red tape, whether the State concentrates on its part of the job, which is to provide proper funding and state objectives for the NSB and the Railway Agency. Because there is precisely an ideologically-thought-out division between several train companies and even more actors that will not give more railway probability. We don't think it's going to give more railway trouble with more fragmentation and reorganization. The railways must become the backbone of the future Norwegian transport system. It assumes that we decide and plan for the railway to be just that, that we focus on the fact that the journey time between the big cities has to go down, that the capacity is increased, and that the trains go when they're going to. We must then give priority to investing — and not dispersing resources in fragmentation and red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3486	One cannot blame the Green Party for being behind some of the fades that have been before, but I think this deserves a line, because the representative has pointed out in his speech the cooperation that should be between the NSB, which is the dominant railway company, and the local offer. In our region, in fact, it is important to be able to coordinate the cooperation between the bus companies, the T-Bahn, the tram and the railway, and I have not realized that it is going completely on the rails, to say the least. Is it not in itself a point to get a slightly more independent actor into the image that can balance these means of transport against each other, and not give the NSB the closest monopoly on what the grid should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3491	No, I don't think so, I think it's underestimating the ability of the NSB and the other agencies to quite general cooperation, given that you get the necessary, clear leadership from government. There is nothing special that suggests that such cooperation will be improved by another organisation itself. It's basically a relatively well-known fact that it's the actors and the governance that's important, it's rarely it's the very organisation that's important. So we think it makes little sense to derail with even more reorganization and fragmentation and make sense to give concentration, priority and long lines. Then the railway system can work well on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3496	I may have a slightly different experience than the representative. We know that in the major conversion of the rail route offer in 2012, Router had to reorganise the entire bus offer in order to adapt to the new train model of the NSB, and it created significant problems for the interconnection between these companies. After all, we're talking about 60 pst. public transport services in the country. Is it not a problem in itself that one of these transports, which really constitutes a spine, but in reality only 12 pst. on the basis of the customer, shall the route offer be such as to require other companies to reorganise the other offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3501	If the assumption is that nothing is possible to change the way today's system operates, well the representative Igstad has a good point in it. But I assume that it's possible to do things better within the existing system, and that's not a particularly eye-catching assumption. And when the problem, in which the representative is quite right, is poor coordination and coordination between companies, there is no shortage of general offices and departments in Norway today that would be able to exercise that governance. The establishment of another body to exercise control is far from some convincing model in order to get more order in a poorly coordinated system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3506	As we were in the past, the NSB is now a well-functioning company. They run well in Norway, and they compete well abroad. The question is whether you should build on what you have. But what you're really proposing is not to build on what you have, it's to merge the NSB and the railway system into a new organization. My question is: how do you think it would make the NSB more competitive to merge this, and how will you maintain transparency, transparency and governance on such a company?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3511	To take the last one first, I don't think it's a reasonable assumption to assume that doing such a merger will make transparency and control less feasible. It is probably to have a little too little faith in how employees of public companies in Norway do their job. But I see to the extent that the representative of Elvestuen’s point – it’s just that there’s so much in Norwegian railway history over the last decades that indicates that the main problem is not the organisational model. The main problem is the absence of overall priority, the absence of resources, and it is not least when the resource base is poor, that implementation and the ability to coordinate and prioritise is poor. That is why the Environment Party of the Greens believes that it is important to put resources on the railways and make the overall priorities. That's when the organization will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3516	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3519	This is a big day -- a big day because there's a lot of commitment to the railroad, a lot of people who talk well about where to put the railroad in the future. That's good. The railway must have a central role in our transport system. That is the government's policy, and that is the policy of the majority parties. In this debate, I've heard a lot of interesting outcomes, outcomes from parties that over the eight years they ran, in the settings of the Transport Committee's budget were very much due to the maintenance effort on the railway. In 2012 they were very pleased that one continued the strong bet that one had in 2011. In 2013 one in the speech wrote that one was proud that one continued the strong bet that was in 2012. In today's debate, on the other hand, there is a general criticism of how badly the infrastructure on the rail is. The rose that came after the year when a crashed itself has now become the infrastructure that is the problem with everything that is on the railway. Then I'm very proud that with the budget we're now running, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, this is the first year that we're actually reducing the maintenance run. It's not just empty boasts we're experiencing, it's actually a real priority of maintenance that makes the problems that everyone here in this room defines as a major challenge for the railway can now start to be solved – instead of one doing it like one has experienced in the last ten years: that the maintenance system grew. Not only did it grow: in 2005, when the red-greens took over, it was $9.5 billion. kr. With the budget provided by the Stoltenberg government for 2014, it would have been 18.3 billion. kr — almost a double. I wish the reality orientation came a little before, that it came when someone could actually do something about it – that one not only set and mocked by a grant that, however, made the maintenance kit sluggishly increased and increased, but on the contrary gripped it. Then we could have a railway today where we have not only a few large, expensive projects that make a lot of money going on the investment side, but a railway where it had been invested all over the country, where one had made sure that there was a train offer that did not allow drivers and conductors to be frustrated almost daily because overhead lines and switches did not work. Then one had made commuters have a better idea of the railway. That's exactly what we're going to do. We are on the move by the majority to provide more money for investment and for maintenance – not least the last, because of the everyday journey to people who have to rely on the railways, which depends on trains leaving when they are promised. Too many young children's parents feel that they have to call the kindergarten and say: I am not coming to pick up my baby in time today, because the train is delayed. It can't be like that. Then people don't trust that public transport works, and then they choose the car. And in the big cities, we're served by the railway. The same applies to freight transport. Once we've talked to the business community, it's repeatedly said that the most important thing for freight transport is not necessarily to reduce travel time by 5, 10 or 15 minutes for the container. The most important thing is that one knows that the container appears at the terminal when it is promised, because it is part of a logistics chain. So we know that in the years that passed, it was lightning a discussed most of all, while the decay increased. There we have been very clear and have said that it is maintenance that is important, because the infrastructure must function every day if business is to choose the railway as a solution to its freight needs. In the lawn outside here earlier today we got criticism from the Workers' Party, because when the trains are at Hauketo station and the doors are not going again, that's the problem. I fully agree, and that is why today's majority have increased the number of new purchases of trains – just to replace the material faster than what was planned. I fully agree with the issues raised as an argument as to why the railway is not running. But what seems a little strange from the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Center Party is that we have actually begun to grips with it. One doesn't have to suggest buying more new sets of vehicles, we're already doing that. One does not have to make proposals now that we have to maintain more, we are already in the process. But then we also have to do something about the systems. We need to gather responsibilities that are now a little random, responsibility that lies a little bit in the NSB, a little bit in the Railway Agency, a little bit in the Fly train and a little bit in the department. That's where this reform, in addition to the increased appropriations, makes us get a better rail sector for the future, by making sure that we create a railway directorate that takes on the overall tasks of the railway system today, and ensuring that they coordinate and manage the rail system. They're going to have the perspective that I experienced when I met the Swiss railway people in the department and sat with them for a whole day to learn how the Swiss have made their success. They are sitting and defining how the railway must be in 15 years from population development and the desired transport image. Unfortunately, in Norway we sit more and look at why we do not maintain 15-year-old things instead of seeing 15 years ahead. That's where we have the railway directorate. And when someone then talks about the Norwegian railways being privatised, at least that's not the result of our reform, because in our reform, the railways are to be governed by the public, by politicians, by the state. And then the state has to own everything that's moving on the railway. We collect that in a material company. Where one today is divided into the railway works, a bit on the Fly train and a lot in the NSB, we say that properties, stations, rails and train sets – everything should be the same place. Then there is revenue and expenditure in the same place, then one has the right incentives to make the good investments instead of having different views in the NSB and the Railway Agency on how to dispose of the land in an area. All of this is state-owned. So there's no privatisation going on. We're going to have a long-term planning in the directorate, we're going to have ownership of the material, and we're also going to make sure that what's in the NSB today, a maintenance company, is right under the Ministry of Transport. We also have to own those who maintain the train sets. It's not privatisation. This is about bringing together responsibility, making sure that one gets done something with the slightly random things that have now been lying for too long, and getting things to work better. Then someone has mentioned that the prices of the tickets will go up as a result of this. There are some of the horrors I have registered in this debate. Then I just want to mention that ticket prices will not go up because of the reform. Someone's referring to England. Yes, in England, the railway operation is largely financed by the train customers. In Norway, on the other hand, we have chosen to finance this partly from the State budget. We're using 3 billion. kr this year to subsidise train tickets, precisely because some of the routes would not have a train offer – in fact almost none – if everything were to be self-financed. We want more trains on Norwegian railways, we want more departures, and then we have to make sure that the state is involved and funding this. It doesn't mean higher fares, as claimed. We're maintaining that system as it is today. Then there's someone who claims to get one more than one operator, a few people will have a chaos with ticket types. Well, already today it's like having an NSB ticket, you can't travel with the Flytrain with it. That problem has not been solved, but we are now solving the problem, because as I was out with last week: we are now setting up a company where we gather all the good forces, with Router, with the Railway Agency and similar – and the county municipalities as owners – to get a common ticket system, one common timetable in Norway. So this problem, as some say, is a challenge with the reform, we're solving -- it was a challenge there, but now we're going to solve it. Some people claim that NSB won't be able to work if someone gets permission to challenge them on their lines. I think that's very defensive. We know that NSB today owns a lot of buses, and they're in competition for those contracts every day. We know that the NSB owns the Train Company in Sweden and has won tenders there, so now the NSB is waiting for tenders to take over the rail transport services around Stockholm. Why do we not always think that the NSB should be able to compete at home when they have shown how they do it abroad? But at the same time, I believe that the Fly train has so many good qualities that I like to see the Fly train and NSB challenge each other on how they can deliver the best possible services locally. Some believe that this reform is urgent. Yes, I don't know what kind of pace the previous government planned for reform work, but we've spent 20 months on it – 20 months. We've had a lot of meetings with the Railway Agency, with the NSB, with the Fly train, with professional movement, with different actors to get a sense of how they want us to proceed. When it is claimed from some here that the trade movement has not been involved, it is simply wrong. We've had two meetings physically in our office in the department, we've been around on several schemes the trade movement has had, and I've also invited myself to many schemes. The trade union movement only needs to contact me, so I will set up, because the trade union movement and the employees here are important for the implementation. It should be attractive to work in the Norwegian railway in the future. There will be more people working in the railway, it will be exciting, a few challenging tasks, and engineering, customer-friendly, service-oriented and in all areas we will see an exciting future for the railway. I am pleased that we are now facilitating this through our reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3564	I was a little stunned when the political spokeswoman Åse Michaelsen spoke earlier in the debate. She talked about how good it is for the customer to be able to choose between several different companies. But this is not how I read the big message: several companies are now going to compete for passengers on different routes. I read the staging message as if the traffic were to be put into packages, which are to be competed for the allocation of. But once one company has won a bid, only this company will run the route they win, and not more different companies. Is it Åse Michaelsen or me that reads the staging message correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3571	I know that Åse Michaelsen reads the big message correctly, but right here I think we've been a little bit unexplained in how we've produced it, for Åse and I both know that you're winning a right to travel for a period of time. But you have a focus on customers when you make the offer. It's to see how you can get the most, how you can make a journey as attractive as possible, because that's the ticket income you earn as a train company. And this is nothing new and especially for the railway. There is free competition in freight transport today. It worked under the red-green parts. I saw no suggestion from the red-greens about removing it. Last week were the red-green parties and said we should have competition at freight terminals. It was not a single comment or comment from the red-greens that we are going to have competition at freight terminals. There are tenders for bus services in Norway. There are offers for a number of flights in Norway. That's how it was under the red-green, that's how it is under us. The important thing is that when the state buys services, we have to be sure that we get the best possible offer for the money, and there is a good offer that we get that quality in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3583	The difference between bus and air traffic is that there are several companies that are competing. So it won't be here. So there will be no competition on the track, where passengers can choose between different companies, there will be competition on the track, and then a company will win it for a certain number of years. The government parties have used the concept that the Railway Agency has no incentives to keep the railway running; we have heard it in the debate here today as well. I think it sounds as if someone thinks that the railway works simply do not do their job. The big message says it, and I'll quote: ‘Railway works have no economic self-interest in keeping train traffic running.’ Dear, veneer – The railway station is part of the administration. Does the Minister for Transport think that the administration should have economic self-interests in implementing different decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3600	Let me first correct on the previous theme, because Onkøe is currently running a number of flights where they have won a tender and have a monopoly on that route until the next bid. So this is nothing special for the railway, this is how it works in other tendering processes. I thought the representative Myrli knew that. As far as the railway works were concerned, the Railway Agency itself has said that the incentive structures, the economic cash flows, are not well-designed today to ensure the best possible railway. And you might not like that from the Workers' Party, but this is what the Railway Agency itself says. In this work, both the NSB, the Railway Agency and the Aerodrome have been involved and have made representations on what a railway reform should be like. They've all pointed out these weaknesses. But I notice that the Workers' Party has not brought them after eight years in government. That's what I'm worried about. We thought there were pretty clear warnings from different professional environments in the railway, so we're doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3609	The Council of State stressed in its article that we need to bet on maintenance. It's very good, and here we do a lot, but we also have to go into initial investment to build the modern, forward-looking railway. Governments then referred to Switzerland, where 15 years in advance were seen. But if you are to build a modern railway, you also have to have an even longer perspective. When you build in Lillehammer, you have to know how to get to Trondheim. If you build in Halden, you have to know how to get to Gothenburg. And you build it for Honey Foss, you have to know how to get to Bergen. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State agree that a much longer and broader strategic perspective is needed, and that this perspective also needs to be about a high-speed route to connect the cities of Scandinavia more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3618	First, I would like to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for the cooperation we have had on the railway to get the maintenance appropriations up to the level they are now. This means that the Railway Agency itself says that 2015 is the big maintenance year. I noticed that one of the railway company's leading people in 2014 said that the budget as they had then been proposed would be a disaster for railway maintenance, but it got better after the government change. When it comes to perspectives, I also fully agree. In the national transport plan, which we are now working on – the new one – which will have a perspective until 2029, we will be specific about what we can do. I believe that the railway station there could say that it is possible to eliminate the maintenance maintenance run. It's a complete turnaround in relation to how evolution has been before. But then we're also going to have a perspective until 2050; it's also part of the order for the Railway Agency. We also have good contact with the Swedes to see what we can do with the Oslo–Gothenburg section in the short term, with the infrastructure that is, while I am going to invite myself to the Swedish Minister during the autumn to discuss what we can do with new investments to get up the line there and towards Stockholm... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3627	It's all over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3630	This is a reform promoted without a type of broad professional basis, such as: a Norwegian public investigation, which is often common in the case of major, wide-ranging reforms. It is a reform that has been carried out without a broad impact assessment, as it shows to us, that we could have had at the bottom when we are going to decide on the railway reform. So I ask the Council of State: what can make the Council of State conclude that this reform is going in the wrong direction? I'm counting on, as the representative Abid Q. Raja said, it's going to be a follow-up evaluation along the way. I want the Council of State to confirm that this is going to happen. Are there conditions that reduce trust, reduce regularity and lower passenger development that could make the Council of State turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3637	I do not know exactly what the representative Eidsvoll Holmås wants to achieve. We've been working on this reform for a long time. So we have consulted and used the best people who are on the railways in Norway – as we find in the railway station, which we find in the NSB, which we find in the Fly train, and which we find not least in the department. It's a lot of railway professional environment around. There's customers of the railroad in the NHO, there's people in the spectrum who organize people in the railroad, it's trade-union movement. The vast majority of these point in the same direction: what are the problems, and in what direction must the solutions come? So there's some ideological disagreement. We know that the LO system is very ideologically opposed to any form of competition. We notice that in the feedback. But even the LO system says that they even want a holding company to run the railway, i.e. a limited liability company, which is much less politically verifiable than the directorate we want. So in all the camps, it's now a vision that you need a reform, except for the red-green ones. I think that's remarkable given that you've been sitting on the inside for eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3644	With all due respect, the Council of State did not answer my question. I asked a very simple question. These are the following: What is the point of the Council of State to consider whether this reform is not going in the right direction? Is that trust — falling trust? Is it lower regularity? Is there any worse progress in passenger numbers than we've seen? And is that how we're going to get a follow-up that looks at the situation today and looks at the change that's coming, just like the representative Abid Q. Raja said you were agreed that you should be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3649	Of course, we will continuously evaluate all the work we do. It's quite natural for me. If I see that things don't have the evolution we want, we have to see: are there external factors, or is it part of the decisions we've made? And then we have to correct. Even under the previous government, a selection of the best people — top leaders in Norwegian railways — was set up with the departmental council as head of the sample, which concluded that a reform was now necessary, pointing to many things. The last government didn't want that. We think it's important. And my goal is to make sure you get more trains on the rails. We already have. You have to have multiple take-offs on the rails. We've already got that. But we're going to do even more. We're going to get more people to choose the railway as their primary means of travel to and from work in commuting. We want more of the goods to be transferred to the railway, simply because it increases road safety, it is more environmentally friendly, and it reduces road wear. Of course, if there is a trend that goes in the opposite direction, it is obvious that things are not as they should be, but progress has already gone in the wrong direction, for example. in the case of goods on rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3660	The Council of State referred to Switzerland earlier in the debate. Switzerland is perhaps the most successful railway country in Europe. But Switzerland has chosen a so-called co-operation model without tendering, where train traffic and infrastructure are owned and operated by integrated companies and with state SBB as a fully dominant company and driving force in railway policy. My question is: does the Minister for Transport think that he has now presented a Swiss model to organise the railway? Is the model that is now presented and that we are discussing in line with the model that exists in Switzerland?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3665	We've been inspired in many places when it comes to rail. No country has organized the railway identical to others. We've picked what we think is best from the different countries. Switzerland is extremely good at long-term planning to coordinate the routes. All that the directorate has to do is do Switzerland in an excellent way. Then we split up in one area, and that's that Switzerland has 70 companies – one big and dominant, but many, many small – that have to coordinate, and that own their rail tracks and the trains on top. I spoke to the head of the railway in the transport department in Switzerland. He said it was challenging to coordinate so many companies. In Germany, they have chosen a different model. There are the Deutsche Bahn, which dominates the large sections which do not have subsidies. But all the local routes are run and owned by the states. 30 pst. by the German railway system is put at a competitive disadvantage. I think it's a little strange when many from the red-green side lift up the German as a great company, which has thus put out more of its passenger transport than what we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3675	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3678	The aim of the Workers' Party is that the entire growth of traffic we're going to get in and around our big cities in the years to come is to be taken with public transport and bicycles and times. In this context, we must give the train an important role – in order to achieve that goal at all. This is the starting point for the Railway Policy of the Workers' Party. The railway policy must therefore be designed in such a way as to create an attractive and modern train service for passengers and freight. The aim is that the train should be the option that wins on the routes where trains are running today and where trains are to go both faster and more frequently than today. There will be great demands for those responsible for the track and for those responsible for train traffic, and – perhaps most importantly – it will require good coordination between these actors. The Workers' Party will place the railway sector in front of very clear political governance, with clear demands. Then we have to organize it then to get to it. The railway operation over the last 10 years has produced results. In the last 10 years, train provision has improved significantly. It was also pointed out by the parliamentarians of the political parties when they were in the pulpit. Punctuality has gone up, fewer trains are cancelled, many more trips by train, and customer satisfaction has also gone up. For the Workers’ Party, it is important that the authorities have the opportunity to ensure the quality of the NSB and the Flytrain’s offerings. For us, the goal is better train. Our objective — the independent objective — is not to facilitate new markets, where foreign enterprises can reap profits from Norwegian public budgets. The railway policy must serve people and businesses. Our goal is better trains. Today, a rail reform is being pushed through in Stortinget, which has had quite minimal involvement and treatment time. It may not be one of the most proud moments in our peaceful democracy, but it unfortunately shows that we have different policy objectives. The Labour Party will have better trains, the majority will have markets and privatisation. The major challenges for the railway are old tracks and old trains. The government’s privatisation reform does not respond to these challenges. The government’s proposals are primarily due to privatisation for the sake of privatisation, especially because competition and privatisation are not close to solving the main problem in the railway sector, namely, inadequately maintained single tracks – but also because the proposal comes after several years with progress and significant improvements in the operation of the NSB. It is proposed to establish an unknown number of new companies, enterprises and, in particular, a new directorate. We believe that the extensive division will lead to more administration and more discharges. We want to bring together the forces and make the organisations in the sector responsible. I repeat: it is okay to have different means of policy, but in this case the policy objective is probably different. We want better trains. Then we must organise it whole and with clear lines of responsibility. The majority will have markets and privatisation. Therefore, they break this up in a per-day number of companies and in new state agencies, corporations and directorates.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3704	It is written that the plan has been developed on the basis of strange conditions and knowledge of experience in other railway countries in Europe. Possibly so, but if the goal is a better offer to customers, one would have seen that fragmentation, as this actually is, outsourcing and privatisation are not the solution, and that on the right track can quickly become a derailment. If, on the other hand, the goal is more money in the pocket of foreign companies, a likely result will be good. The truth is that now an important case of future rail and infrastructure is being forced through in a short time, because there are obviously other considerations than knowledge and experience that are important to the majority in this Chamber. When they do not even know that there is privatisation and fragmentation, it is mildly worrying. This is about ideology. Ideology doesn't give better rail. Ideology doesn't give trains anymore. Ideology doesn't give any more clues. The Workers' Party is for changes on the railways, but we want a comprehensive and strong governance of the public sector. We want the people's tax money to be spent on rail – not on securing profits from multinational companies. The reform will weaken public transport on rail. We don't get any more trains for the money. Customers don't get any more choices. It won't be cheaper. The reform will weaken the NSB and allow foreign companies the monopoly to run on train sections in Norway. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not believe in the NSB, that 150 years of history and knowledge about the railway have value. It is sad and bears witness to a lack of knowledge about the complexity of railway operations. Passenger traffic on Norwegian rails is unprofitable. Train journeys here to land are possible thanks to public purchase. Ticket receipts cover about half of the actual costs of the train offer. The government covers the rest by purchasing services directly from the NSB for 3 billion. kr. The reform opens up competition for public aid. This is money for private train companies, of course, will hunt, and because companies will have little impact on income, the solution will be to cut costs to maximise dividends. This will result in massive pressure on the pay and working conditions of employees, and not least on the pension of 10,000 railway employees. How the Left can avoid that, they still have no answer. To make it quite clear: we do not want foreign train companies to be able to make dividends at the expense of employees' pay and working conditions. NSB carries 60 million passengers per year. In the United Kingdom, an average of 67 million passengers a year are offered on the rail, i.e. more than the total number of NSBs. If the railway tendering regime is to operate, the majority should at least ensure that the reform was properly implemented, not least for safety and the long-term impact on the railways. The reluctance to investigate the consequences puts the future of the railway at risk. The numerical basis is weak. As the representative Myrli said, the chapter entitled «Quantitative effects» does not contain a single number. It is assumed that competition will bring economic benefits. Elements are picked from different sources of inspiration without an overall analysis of the impact on employees, travellers and society. Coordination between those who grant money, those who build the railways, those who drive the trains, the needs of the public and the financial resources over time is the recipe of a railway for the future. The government promises that operations will be more efficient and that customers will get better rail. The main argument for split rail is based on the assumption that competition is needed to improve performance. Research concludes with the opposite. Countries with the best railways have chosen a single integrated model. Thus, in a cost-benefit perspective, fragmentation does not provide the most for the money. Thus, the conclusion of the message is to count as a statement, a belief. We know that trains and rails make a good railway – not ideology, not faith. Finally, the cases involving the employees. The council says that the employees had been at two meetings. Yeah, that's not the number of meetings that are important here, is it? That's what the meetings actually contained. And the rapporteur also said in a reply that he was satisfied because the employees had been informed. Being informed and involved is two different things. That the Christian People's Party also clearly thinks that this is a good way to deal with these kinds of things, I expect several employees to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3725	I fully agree that we have challenges to achieve a coherent, coherent and predictable planning, development, maintenance and coordination of infrastructure projects in this country. I guess no one disagrees. For several years, there has been talk of the disadvantages in the piecemeal and shared development of road, rail, ports and fairways. Still, that's exactly what's going on. We build out piece by piece and shared also today, regardless of the government color. There are several reasons for this, but contributing reasons are the planning process in connection with NTP, the policy decision-making process locally and centrally, and that socio-economic profitability is less focused than our local priorities, on which we are all measured. If we are to do something about the challenges, we must therefore also look at how we organise and make the political decisions. However, when I have been listening to the debate here today, it seems that piece by piece and shared expansion is history. It's amazing to listen to it, because when we look at the things that are being presented, they're broken up, like for example. Urban package Lower Glomma, which was divided into several pieces when it came from the minister than when it was sent in. The Stoltenberg government put the railway on the 2005 agenda, after years of down-priority. We more than doubled the appropriations allocated to the railway and carried out several development projects of the double-track railway in the eight years of government, among others. in the west corridor, on the Jären and along Mjösa. Maintenance was increased, which was and is absolutely necessary after years of down-priority. It has provided a better offer to the population on these routes. In today’s NTP, as developed by the Stoltenberg Government, further action has been taken to ensure planning and development with several major development projects and a project financing of the railway investments that would provide a coherent, predictable and coherent development. The transport modes were required to improve their efficiency, so that the planning time was halved in relation to today, less transportation projects could be started without the decision of the Stortinge, in order to create faster progress, and we would have the government more control over the plans for progress in the development, as we did with the Gardermoban. All of this is action that would meet the need to develop comprehensively and coherently and to implement the projects more quickly — if they are implemented. The point of these reform measures was to be able to provide passengers with a railway that is operationally safe, going and coming on time and is fast and efficient. We still don't have that on all the routes today, like for example. on the Eastfold Railway, where I commute. Signal faults, missing material, missing train crew and queue on the track are reasons we get for delays and cancelled trains. I do not believe that the main action of the government in the reform – the launching of competition and the further fragmentation of the activities responsible for the railways – is the answer to these problems. On the contrary. One or more new companies with the same trainset as the NSB will not offer a better train offer than we have today. It is the infrastructure that is the main challenge, in addition to old trainsets. There is therefore a need to spend even more money building the double-track railway on those routes that do not currently have it and to speed up to a high speed of 250 km/h, as agreed in the national transport plan. There is a need to spend even more money on railway maintenance, so that operational problems are minimised. There is a need to initiate the new signal system for testing. And there's a need to buy more new trainsets. This will improve operational safety on the railway and provide better provision. Then I agree that organisational improvements are also needed. However, I would urge the Council of State to examine this in more detail and look at more solutions, rather than rushing through a reform, as the Government Parties and the Left and Christian People's Party do now. I would like to point out an alternative: the NSB was split in 1996 – over 20 years ago. The railway system and the NSB are now two different activities and should, in my view, continue to be so. However, a joint superstructure of the NSB and the Railway Agency, where joint tasks and necessary coordination can be carried out, should be explored, as there is a need for more coordination in the transport sector – no more fragmentation. Our challenge is to develop a comprehensive, coherent, efficient, road-safe and sustainable transport system for the country, where we see road, rail, ports and airports in the context, and not plan and expand them individually, which is now. Therefore, there should be more coordination to and no more fragmentation, as it is envisaged today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3748	Today we are going to decide on a historic change in the rail sector in Norway. Therefore, I would like to begin by saying that it is very regrettable that this privatisation reform is being trodden through at express speed. We asked for more time, but we didn't get it. The employees asked for more time, but they did not get it. I know that both organisations, counties and municipalities wanted to be involved in the process, but they did not. Here you've been busy, and the reactions haven't been missed. We heard that in the hearing that was, and we heard it not least today at the political marking that was outside the Storting, and not least at the fact that all trains today stood still for three hours. This shows that we are not only in the opposition that has been overrun, but also everyone else who would have liked to have participated in this important process. What is happening now is that this privatisation reform is both being carried out at express rates and is overrun by all concerned. This is highly critical. The government boasts of its employees and says that they are the railway's most important resource – it says in the message – but they are not involved in the preparation of the reform. They should be connected now when we have taken the decision tonight. So they add up to a large-scale conversion without listening to the employees, as they say, is the most important resource. I understand that the employees are worried. Experience from other countries shows that both the pay and the working conditions of employees are easily under pressure. We also see that the communication says that the new ones entering the new enterprise are not to be included in the State pension fund. This, I think, is eye-catching and actually shows what you're going to play. In the red-green eight-year period, we doubled the railway investments and built new double tracks on the Jären, to Asker and along Mjösa. Today, it sounds like we haven't done anything in these eight years. Today, people in the East are enjoying this. There is no doubt that those living between Eidsvoll and Drammen have a crazy much better train offer today than when the red-greens took over ten years ago – with take-offs every ten minutes between Lillestrøm and Asker and three departures per hour to Eidsvoll with new trains. Therefore, the passenger has increased by 60 pst. at Eidsvoll Works station, and therefore Lillestrom is now the third largest train station in the country. Fewer trains are set, there are fewer delays, and customers are more satisfied. Modern double tracks and swinging new trains are what's going on. We know that in the Working Party, and that's why we want to do something about it. When the train is delayed due to signal failure, it will not help if the Sørlandsbanen is offered. When the train to Ski is set because the overhead line has fallen, the privatisation of the train traffic is not a response. Much may be better, but many customers have experienced great improvements in recent years. The railway operation over the last 10 years has produced results. In recent years, train provision has improved significantly, punctuality has increased, fewer trains have been cancelled, many more trips by train, and customer satisfaction has increased. By the way, it is a strange time that the dark blue here chooses to slaughter the NSB – with NSB cargo, more passengers than ever, and the punctuality is, as I said, higher than ever. When NSB does better than ever, train running shall be split and privatised and put on the market. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get We'll do more of what's been successful in the last ten years, and less of what's gone wrong. While the dark blues will slaughter the NSB and split the railway, the Workers' Party will strengthen the NSB and bring together the forces of the future railway. We want to gather, not split, Railway Norway. The government will split up the railway into an unknown number of limited liability companies, set up companies and directorates. The way in which the government describes the fragmentation and sale of the maintenance tasks of the Railway Agency is similar to the confusion of the total failed and fatal fragmentation and sale of the rail system carried out on the right-hand side in the United Kingdom in the 1990s. We thought they had learned. The government has called its message On the right track. The problem is just that there's only one track, and a few places two, and then people don't get more train departures regardless of how much competition the government wants. The Labour Party will build the country, not sell the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3769	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3772	The Government, the Left and the Christian People's Party submitted on 11 May proposals for the reorganisation of the Norwegian railway system, and today, just one month after, this Assembly shall adopt the Government's reform. It is now open for private operators, if they win the bidding rounds, to get a single right on routes. This will not solve the problems we have on the railway. It will primarily facilitate the transfer of government money to private individuals. The ruling foreshadows the fact that competition to run trains on the routes will give an incentive to train companies to tighten up while they are to tighten up is dissatisfaction with infrastructure, single tracks and some old and uncomfortable trains – i.e. regulations that they themselves have no influence on. There must be the wrong medicine on the diagnosis we're all aware of. The right medicine must be even stronger in upgrading the railway, with more double track, modern signalling systems and large-scale renewal of the train equipment. It's very easy to blame the NSB when there's a railway operating problem, because the NSB in Norway is the railway's face to the outside world. But we don't have to go more than a few hundred meters up or down the street we're now in, so find the Fly train, where the state has sailed for double-track paths with comfortable trains that are adapted to speeds of more than 200 km/h, and most of them are happy with the Fly train, also because of frequent departures and high degree of punctuality and operational stability. This shows that we must have first and foremost our attention to the development of the railways and the renewal of materials. The Labour Party's option, presented by previous speakers, has just been addressed. I think that the government's arrangement will also be more expensive, and if several different actors are to have each one's distance, there will also be more bureaucracy. The majority suggest the creation of a new directorate, a new company and more new companies on the railway. All of this is not in keeping with the rhetoric we heard from the Right and the Advance Party in the previous election struggle, where the fight against bureaucracy was a major issue. We'd rather collect than split. Message has been named on the correct track. The problem is just that there is only one track, and then people can't get more train departs the same amount of competition this government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3785	The aim of the reorganisation of the railway sector is to ensure a good offer of trains to travellers and to facilitate the transport of more goods by rail. The main criteria for achieving this are increased regularity and sufficient capacity. We have to solve this, as I started with, by focusing more on both investment, renewal and maintenance of the track while at the same time ensuring that we increase the capacity of passenger traffic in particular. We're doing well and we're going to keep doing it in the coming years. In particular, the increase in renewal and maintenance is important as it is essential to improve regularity. For the first time in a long time, the maintenance drivage in the railway sector is now being reduced. In order to ensure that the increased resources are used as efficiently as possible, there is a need to change the organisation. The Government proposes in the message to bring together the overall strategic and administrative tasks of a railway directorate. Everything related to the infrastructure will be grouped together within the infrastructure undertaking, and supervision and the Disaster Commission will continue as it is now. This means that all infrastructure will be grouped together in public ownership. The railway track is therefore not to be privatised. Furthermore, the State-owned NSB and the Flytrain will continue as the major carriers they are. The flight has a contract for 2028. I believe that this reorganisation that has been done, with its own railway directorate and a clearer distinction between ownership and operation of the infrastructure and the companies that are to offer the services on the track, will mean a clearer division of responsibilities and a clearer division of roles in the railway sector. So to the point that maybe creates the most and greatest discussion. We believe that competitive outsourcing will provide a better offer to travellers in the coming years. The government wants to gradually phase out selected sections of passenger transport. It's done on the Gjøvik track today, where the NSB won the bid. Similarly, it is fully possible to do on other routes. Whether it's the NSB, the Fly train or brand-new actors that make the best offer, the time will show. In addition, we also want more players to be able to compete for maintenance contracts. Then it is important to distinguish between privatisation and outsourcing. Several representatives from the Workers' Party have talked about privatisation on autopilot. What we're doing is something completely different. We make clear the state ownership and responsibility for the infrastructure and allow more people to compete to provide transport services on the track, which is quite common in the transport sector. Competition is not a new phenomenon, nor in the railway sector. Reorganisation and outsourcing are not an objective of railway policy but an instrument that will mean greater diversity, new solutions, increased coordination and not least a clearer division of responsibilities. It will provide a better deal over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3802	There has been a significant increase in rail resources in the last few years. New infrastructure is being built and new material is being acquired. The State budget for 2015 increases the appropriations for the railway by more than 14 pst. For the first time in many decades, the maintenance set run is reduced and the number of take-offs on the main passenger train sections is significantly increased. For example, I can mention the increase from four to seven departures on the Sørlandsbanen, both roads between Stavanger and Oslo, which has also meant an increase in the number of departures to and from Nelaug on the Arendalsbanen. The Government provides through these budgetary priorities to strengthen the competitiveness of the railway. The train shall be made a more attractive transport offer for commuters around the large urban areas, but also for long-distance freight. We still have a significant lag due to structural problems, operational disruptions, delays due to degraded infrastructure, lack of material, much degraded material and miserable track capacity on some sections. The neglect of previous governments shows the lack of their political will to do something for the railways. The needs for change are well identified and quite evident after eight years of red-green government and a continuous period of reform drought in the transport sector. The right-wing Party government is now making the necessary and over-ripe reforms both on rail and in the road sector. Our goals are clear. We're going to have more railways left for the money, for all of the money being invested. There shall be a clear responsibility in separating tasks of authority and operation, and we shall have effective infrastructure deployment. The needs of customers will be important, and we will facilitate that more people want to use the train as a daily transport option. Experience has shown that the possibility for more actors to participate in the development of transport services over time will provide innovation and a more customised offer. The red-greens continue in the same track they followed under the red-green government. They are complete without change and inside a closed siding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3817	The Government’s railway reform is a desire to split up and put off competition. We're going to get a directorate, a state company, a workshop company, the train equipment taken from the NSB, and train traffic is going to be offered. It has been said that we need more coordination. But this is the opposite, this is fragmentation. Today's railroad isn't perfect. We still have many inefficient single-track and technical installations that are so old that it goes beyond the offer of the train. Everyone who commutes and travels frequently by train is aware of the frustration that comes when there is a stoppage due to track defects. What is needed now is that we build new tracks, fix those we have and get double tracks. The government and the support parties blame the unwanted stoppage on the NSB – as I experience and interpret it – and will therefore be subject to competitive outsourcing. With all due respect, there is little comfort to those who are stuck on the Dovrebahn because of signal faults, or standing at Kolbotn station and hearing that an overhead line has fallen, that the routes are being offered. 70 pst. of all stops in train traffic is about infrastructure failure. Then this is the one we have to fix, not cutting wings – as the representative Myrli said – the train company to which customers actually flow more than ever before. The bet we've had in the last ten years has produced results. But we want to go on and do things better and take care of what's not good enough. The Workers' Party will do well to the Railway Agency, the NSB and their employees. That is why we want to strengthen the Railway Agency, not weaken the effort on infrastructure. That's why we're going to strengthen the NSB, not wing clipping and destroying the company. And that's why we're dedicated to modernising both infrastructure and train equipment, so that we get optimal operation. What the government and the supporting parties are doing is putting out competition because it's a point in itself, ideologically. It is not without reason that trains stop today, and that people gather both in front of the house here and elsewhere in the country, to say that the government is taking the railway in the wrong direction and that the government has presented a reform that is, in fact, a pure privatisation reform. We in the Workers' Party are on a team with those who strike and gather today. We are not on the side of the government and the cooperation parties and those who want to destroy the railway. We want to strengthen public railway operations, for the benefit of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3837	In the spring, we and the government received a letter from the presidency saying that matters need to be advanced by mid-April in order to be expected to be dealt with in the spring session. I would assume that the presidency sent that letter for reasons of the magnitude of the Great Britain and for ensuring democratic treatment. It would have been nice if some of the majority of the presidency took the floor in this debate and explained why in this large, complicated matter it was necessary to deviate from the contents of the letter that the presidency had sent to the government. I believe that it weakens the confidence of the presidency as our common elected representatives here on the Grand Council when we do not all know what rules of play we have to deal with. The size is not heard properly, the trade unions are not heard properly. Abid Q. Raja says we in the Workers' Party expect to be overrun because we've overrun so many before. It's a strange principle attitude – just not the Left is the one that has to suffer, so it's okay. Ketil Solvik-Olsen stood here and spoke on behalf of the employees of the drivers and the railway. Well, the employees' representatives are sitting in the gallery. They were outside here today, and they feel in no way taken care of by what Ketil Solvik-Olsen says. I have heard two comments from the representative Vossken from the Progress Party here today. In her first post she says that nothing happened in eight years. Then she says in her second post that there's been amazing things happening in the last two years. There must be a very lack of knowledge about what the railway is all about, and how long it takes to get results, when one believes that a government can take a lot of action and get things done in these two years without it being about infrastructure investments that have been made before. When we took over in 2005, we took over a railway that was starving. Torild Skogsholm left a project from Lysaker to Asker that was about to be closed because the government had not put enough money into it. It's the same parties that stand here today and say that nothing happened under the red-green. Well, the red-green ones were the ones who actually took the roof, actually granted money, actually invested in the railroad, and, as they say in English, "The proof is in the pudding." We delivered, and we've been involved in building big. Back to the case that this may have gone a little fast. I think we got the final proof of it when Ketil Solvik-Olsen from the pulpit of Stortingen had to correct the railway policy figure of the Progress Party because she had not understood what the competitive outsourcing would really mean. She thought it was people themselves who could choose which company they would use, while it was actually the department that would decide which company would go on which route. This has to prove that maybe things have gone a little bit fast here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3850	On behalf of the government, the Minister for Transport has recently presented the big message we are discussing here today, on the right track, which is a proposal for rail reform. The details of the reform have been presented by several speakers here today, although some like to have a more distant sense of reality than others. We have taken inspiration from what has worked best in several European countries, so to begin with what is the problems and challenges here at home, and developed our own, Norwegian model. This reform facilitates better organisation of the rail sector, where we gather responsibilities that are now scattered. The most important thing we do to lift the railway is to invest heavily in the whole sector. We're building new ones, and we're reducing the enormous maintenance run. Today's strike was for me a picture of the past and the future. With the previous government, maintenance, despite increased appropriations for the railways in total, was down-priority. It led to a number of cancelled train departures, which today's three-hour train stop can be a nice reminder. Those who fight for the past wanted to welcome the strike. Those who fight for the future did not want to welcome the strike, for they want the train to go and carry the passengers forward. One of the great grips we have taken, and will continue, within Norwegian rail, is to give priority to maintenance, so that the train goes more often and becomes a more reliable and attractive offer for both passengers and freight traffic. In the reply with Roy Steffensen, the representative Holmås claimed that the Progress Party has always reduced the appropriations for the railway. I showed him in a Twitter message that we have increased the appropriations also in our alternative budgets by 250 million. kr, for maintenance, inter alia: The train is a very important part of our journey effort, and it's not that we've been calm for 20 months waiting to present the reform. We have increased the appropriations for the railway by 50 pst., and this year there are over 100 more trainsets on Norwegian rail tracks, compared to last year. Among other things, we have improving the multi-departure route on the east, extending the Tronderway to Melhus and doubling the number of take-offs on the southern runway, and increasing the supply of the Salt Pendulum. We have started work on Norway's largest railway project, Follobanen, we have taken decisions that accelerate new freight terminal in Bergen and Trondheim, and we have launched an investigation on the interconnection of the Vestfoldbahnen and Sørlandsbanen. So we've chosen to strengthen the railway, but today's debate shows that it's presented as if we want to destroy the railway. We want more people to travel collectively, and we want to increase the capacity of the collective offer, so that people voluntarily choose to travel collectively. The railway reform is involved in taking the necessary steps to achieve this goal, and I would point out that it stood more and waited for the train during today's strike than it was outside here and cried out in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3867	Many of us were present during the marking the railway staff had outside the Storting earlier today. The debate here shows that, unfortunately, they spoke for deaf ears. In the eyes of the government and the majority of the population, those who work on the railway every day are not qualified to believe anything about how the offer of the travellers can remain good and become even better. The right-wing spokesperson during the marking, the representative Nils Aage Igstad, began his speech by saying that he was the only person present who was both a politician and a daily traveler by train. Well, it was wrong from the first sentence. We were at least two – maybe more. Under the heading ‘Tut and drive!’ stood Røjres Linda Hofstad Helleland in VG last autumn, ready to crush the NSB monopoly with ‘blue badger’. How have the government and the majority actually intended to avoid that the blue-blue badger also meets us who are daily users of the NSB? My first month ticket Drammen–Oslo I bought in the autumn of 1974. Since then I have largely commuted, now with an annual card – twelve months for the price of ten. The ticket is also a customer card with discounts on other sections. I have been coughing and waiting for trains that did not come, in endless bus queues and stuck in tunnels due to contact wires and signalling errors. But that, after all, belongs to the exceptions. In 33 active commuting years, train provision has improved. Today I have five trains an hour each way, in the rush time more. There are trains from different sections, some on the privatisation list. Should the annual card continue to apply to all trains between Drammen and Oslo, or will the train offer be either more expensive or worse? And what about the customer card at NSB? Eight sections have been notified of privatisation. Some of them are where I usually use the customer card. Is it going to end here? I have read the message thoroughly, with the eyes of an annual card user, and I find only non-obligatory wordings about seamlessness. What does that mean? When I ask, I believe that we have not yet managed to coordinate tickets, prices and offers between different public companies in the East, even those who are in public ownership. Not even Meltveit Kleppa's offer to use the flight in case of major delays on the NSB is no longer valid, and it is, after all, the same owner. I am actually addressing a clear response from the Council of State: How is the government supposed to prevent the train offer from becoming more expensive and worse when the blue light falls? For the time being, I have only heard an enigma of words without content. And if he feels called to respond, he might at the same time say a little about the consequences of large-scale privatisation on the pension rights and pay and employment of employees. It does not say much about the message either, except that it is going to be worse. But I noticed the representative Raja's posts here earlier today, that the Left has fought and got an impact on good pension conditions, and I wonder if the Council supports under the statement that Raja had from the pulpit here instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3884	Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, government parties want rail to be a competitive transport option and to play a much more important role – especially for commuter traffic around the largest cities and for freight transport between parts of the country. That's why we've increased the appropriations for the railway by about 50 pst. in the two years we've worked out a budget together. For the first time in ten years, the maturity is now reduced. From December 2014 there are about 100 more trains on the tracks every day. The eight years of red-green managed, the maintenance crew increased by 1 billion. kr per year. The legacy after these years is clear. Important parts of the infrastructure are obsolete and worn out. Capacity is in many places fully exploited or detonated. Railways and other public transport are not well coordinated. The driving force for this reform is to ensure better train provision for rail users. It is their need for the railway to solve. Here there is a need for better maintenance, new tracks and more trains. The State shall continue to be responsible for and ownership of the infrastructure, for the coordination and management of traffic and for the development of the role of the railway. We want to let different train companies compete to drive on different sections of the train in agreement with the state. We do this in order for travellers to have a better train offer – when different companies compete to give travellers the best possible offer. Maintenance shall continue to be the responsibility of the State. Parts of the operational and maintenance work on the railway are already subject to competition, with good experience. This reform opens up the way for more operational and maintenance tasks to be gradually carried out in the same way. The government has great ambitions for climate-friendly societal development that ensures well-being, value creation and competitiveness. Railways play an important role in this development, and the government’s response – together with the Christian People’s Party and the Left – is increased resources and now reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3903	'A sad day for everyone who loves the railway,' said Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås in his post. Just as I doubt, the passenger's impression is one day like this, where plans are put forward to gather, specialise in the tasks and strengthen the infrastructure. ‘Why change something that works?’ Well, I can tell the representative Eidsvoll Holmås: because it does not work. Talk to commuters and talk to the transport industry. We see that one for freight well road instead of road, we see that a trip with the Voseban is not an experience, as the NSB advertisement shows, we see that the lack of interaction in important areas, delays, cancellations of trains, unserviceable conditions and old trains have become the leftover impression of too many travelers. The Government Party and the Cooperation Party want the railway to be a competitive transport option and to play a much more important role, especially for commuter traffic around the major cities and for freight transport between parts of the country. This has been followed up during this period of government by a historic effort through the work of the railway reform. The maturity will be reduced this year. Under the Working Party, it increased by 1 billion. Every year -- let's not forget it. But we need a railway where the customer is in the center, we need a railway where long-term common goals are governing development, and we need a railway identification of operators with operational freedom and appropriate framework conditions. The government has had a good work process where all the trade unions have been listened to, but that doesn't mean everyone has to get their will. Evaluation will be done, and we are, of course, concerned with achieving goals. The Labour Party has argued that this reform is merely privatisation and ideology. Most ideologies try to answer what society should be like and what means one is forced to use to achieve goals. I can proudly say that our ideology is the driving force behind the reform, and it is ensuring that its users are better able to train. With the means of railway reform, we must be able to succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3916	When I started my post today, I asked if we were really discussing the same issue, and after hearing the debate, you might wonder about it. Here is a tiger against privatisation, as if it were clouded, and so we are in an area, a state where public transport has actually been exposed to competition and where there are multiple operators. In Oslo and Akershu, 320 million passengers are transported, and the NSB on a national basis carries 70 million. It's a huge public network in Oslo, which is run by different operators. When you go on a bus out here, you really don't know if it's Unibuss or Nettbuss, which are both publicly owned, or if it's another company running that route. If you're so unhappy driving the City Railway in Bergen, you're actually running a means of transport run by a French company, Keolis. It's such a fear of foreign, it's fy, it's just we in Norway who can run railing! We have a very sluggish environment in terms of rail traffic in Norway. We have what's in Oslo – we have Sporegen, we have NSB, we have the Flytrain – and then we have Keolis, the French company that runs the Urban Railway in Bergen. This is open to competition. That means you have a driving obligation and right on a journey for x years, and in the bus transport, it's usually eight years. That's the years you have at your disposal, and then it's their duty and the right to drive those routes. Every seven to eight years, this is being re-offered, and that is one of the reasons why the buses in our area are perhaps more climate friendly than the buses in other parts of the country, because every time we have that competitive environment, we also get better buses. Now we're not talking about buses, here we are talking about trains. We're talking about sections where NSB is going to compete. I haven't talked down the NSB, on the contrary. NSB is a good company, and they do a good job. But they also have potential for improvement. That's what we think we can do by opening up competition, and then we'll see for a few years how it's gone. I think it's going to go well, I don't think anyone gets any discomfort from driving either the City Railway in Bergen or a bus in Oslo that's private time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3925	As a veteran of big business representatives, who has now been here for 18 years, I have to say that I am a little surprised, especially at what the Progress Party is getting to say in this matter. I am sitting here with a newspaper headline from Bergen's Official Journal in 2004, where a person who was a person for transport policy in the Progress Party and het Kenneth Svendsen, says the following: ‘Put down Bergensbanen and replace it with a motorway.’ In addition, it says: ‘The turn will cut the transfers made by the Railway Works and the NSB in the course of operation and maintenance.’;» And on the other hand, ‘In addition, he will sell the properties owned by the Railway Agency and the NSB’.» We have heard that the Progress Party thinks that the maintenance of the railway is so terrible, and that it has not been good enough under the red-green government. Well, I'm sitting here with the Nations from May 8, 2006. There, in the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, the figure for transport policy at that time is as follows: ‘In our alternative state budgets in recent years, we have cut the budgets of the railways. Now we have to start looking at where we're going to cut on the railway." We who have been engaged in politics for a long time have been involved in the fact that people from both the Right and the Advance Party have wanted to shut down, for example. The pipeline, which is a very important road for freight and passenger transport. Many of these little pathways that are now crying crocodile tears over, had been closed if the Right, and especially the Advance Party, had got their will. In the period from 2006 to 2013, there were 1.5 billion in the budgets of the Progress Party. kr less for maintenance. In our period, we strengthened investments on the railways. That's good, it's good for the passengers and this government. That's why things are going better on the railway now. It would have been a good idea if we had learned from the countries that have done this, for example. Switzerland, Switzerland. They've gathered, not spread. They have invested in the railway, in the trains and in the control of the trains as a whole. That's why they succeed. There are some things in the world that the economy calls natural monopoly. Railway operation is. Railway operation in Norway should not be fragmented and privatised. Finally, this trip in one month is not about what the government has done until the matter has been submitted. It is about how much time there is for democratic processes – for politicians, for passengers and for employees – during the treatment of the Stortinget. I hear now that there is full confusion, including in the government parties, about what privatisation is. This indicates that you don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3961	Getting involved in this debate is like going back 12 to 15 years in time. Over the last 15 years, I've been working on expanding public transport in Oslo. It has succeeded, and Oslo and Akershus now have perhaps the best collective system of all cities of that size in Europe. It has involved large investments and a lot of money for operation, but it has also been a completely necessary reorganisation. The reason why I know that this is like three many years ago is that for every organisational change, the Workers' Party and SV have voted against. Now we're taking the first step to have a systematic and strategic bet on the Norwegian railway, and the Workers' Party and SV are voting against. I would argue that in the case of Oslo and Akershus, they would never have made the promise that the city has made with Akershus. And nationally, you're never going to make the promise that Norwegian railway needs, because you also have to look at organisation. We need a much better coordination of what is strategic planning. The investments we make must be linked to strategic planning, and the timetables must be based on what we are going to do. We can't even have it like when you open new double tracks west of Oslo. Then no one knew how many trains were going to go there. When you don't know, you should not be surprised that later on, there is a need for both positioning and new sidings. This must be coordinated and the major decisions must be based on system planning. There is no reason to be concerned or afraid of tendering. Tenders work well if they're well planned. Respect should also be given to the complexity of tendering procedures. Therefore, it is important for the Left to have the structures and systems in place before taking the steps, to continue working and using tenders as an instrument. Because it is such with rail transport that you cannot afford to fail. You have to succeed every time to get a better offer. What we need is a higher level of ambition for Norwegian railways – to expand what is needed local traffic coordinated with what is also the responsibility of the counties, to develop a freight transport system, to develop an intercity system around the big cities, and not least to develop the future modern rail network to connect cities in Scandinavia with a high-speed system. Today we're taking the first step in what is a very big task, which requires a lot of will over a long time. But what we're doing now is an important first step on that path.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3976	The funniest satire entry from the News Channel 5080 is no doubt the news that the NSB will launch a completely new concept for rail in Norway. Up to several sections trains shall be set up instead of the usual bus offer for trains. A fictitious employee explains the concept that we as passengers can only stand on the platform. Instead of a person coming in a yellow vest who shows you to a bus, there comes a train you can board. The innovation shall make the NSB better equipped to face competition from non-train air traffic and bus. Since the concept has not been tested in Norway, they have to run several trials. So the audience has to complain that they will sometimes have to drive the bus for the train for the bus for the train. A fictional passenger is sceptical about whether the concept will survive. After all, the bus for trains has become part of the identity of the Norwegians, she says – a bit like hearing the opposition talk about the Fly train as part of the Norwegian heritage silver. In the satirium, the NSB calms down that they will still drive the bus for trains on most routes, and that the new system will not go beyond their usual delays, which will go as normal. I thought with that the parody was complete. But then I discovered that today there was a strike against changes in an organisation and structure that obviously did not work. The question is whether the passengers got the strike, or whether it was only put in the account for another signal error. It is not the passengers who demonstrate against the changes, to put it that way. The railway reform provides for a long-term lack of rail and facilitates further growth. The government will gather and specialise tasks. For example, all responsibilities for infrastructure are grouped together in one enterprise, which will facilitate the development of nodes. I want competition because experience shows that well-functioning competition provides a better and more user-adapted offer, at a lower cost to the public. In Norway, Gjøvikbanen is a good example of this. The bet is a massive investment in infrastructure, where since the government change we have turned to maturity for renewal. The reform has been supported by the NHO, the NSB, the Fly train and the Railway Agency. The same applies, for example, to: VG, Evening Post and DN in leadership position – for those who care. For my part, I too would like to welcome the railway reform. With some fear of flying and no note, I am dependent on trains to do some of what I like best, namely to travel and visit people around the country in a fast, safe and environmentally friendly way. Seeing beautiful Norway roll past in its long-term beauty gives room to let the tanks fly – without even having to do it. I therefore warmly welcome the concept of Train for Bus for Train and believe that the government is on the right track with this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e3999	If the previous post was funny, I must say I had a lot of trouble understanding what might have been nice about it. The opposition has been very critical of the procedure in this case. There has been urgent work from one end to the other from the case to the Stortinget. Earlier in today's debate, I asked Abid Raja what was the reason for beating through such rapid treatment. Then he replied that it was because the red-green government did not listen to the opposition when they had government power for eight years. The answer was thus added from the Left, thank you for last – no fundamental considerations from the party that have stood up for popular rule and democracy and for good conditions for democracy. One might not expect better from Abid Raja, but neither could the presidency be able to see the principle of the matter, I think it's strange. The Presidency wrote to the Prime Minister’s office earlier in the year that ‘there is a need to promote matters by mid-April in order for them to be expected to be dealt with before the end of the spring session’. Of course, it happens that we deviate from it – when there is agreement on it in the committee. This often happens, even in the Transport Committee these days – but there was no agreement in the Transport Committee on the procedure in this case. The opposition said we should take some time and deal with the matter until the fall, and not knock it through in four weeks. Earlier today, the Minister of Transport said that the government has spent 20 months. I believe that it's difficult, it's complicated. I think it's done a very thorough job. We disagree with a lot of what's being presented, but it's been 20 months. So the size is going to be one month to deal with this matter. The opposition – the minority in the Committee – brought the matter before the Presidency, in accordance with the rules of procedure. I have to say it was very disappointing that the presidency did not have the ability to see the principle in the matter and, with four votes to two, only followed its parties – the majority – in the transport committee, even without any justification. I would like to know what matters the prime minister had in mind when he wrote the letter that matters would be presented «in the middle of April». Indeed, as soon as the turn of events has taken place, the leaders of the government parties in the debate today have revealed that they have not got along with how the suspension of passenger traffic is to take place. I am disappointed, especially about the Left and Christian People's Party. So fast it has been that the Left and Christian People's Party was not present on much of the committee hearing that we had on the matter, because there were busy times in the Storting and the two committee members of the Left and Christian People's Party were engaged in other tasks in the Storing. This is a treatment that we are very critical of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4028	This is an important topic and an important debate, and in order to show the representative Myrli that we are taking it very seriously, I have brought with me this time the office and the head of the Railway Agency, since he felt so lonely last time we discussed without the audience. I find that someone is dissatisfied with the fact that it has gone quickly. I think it's a little strange to hear. When one refers to the fact that one had to have advanced a matter before the end of April in order to charge the committee, I would remind you that the Workers' Party, the day after the railway reform was promoted, sent written questions to me and called for the Executive Package, because it had to be promoted soon if they were to be dealt with before the summer. The same representative, Juvik, was in the Nordic newspapers and pointed out that if they were to manage the Helgeland South route, it had to be promoted before 1 June in order for the Stortinget to reach it. So it's obvious that you've had a good time in many things, but in this particular case, where they don't like the conclusions, they seem to have had a bad time. I will promise that this matter has been thoroughly investigated by the government before we promoted it, but it is now time that even if an oil report from the red-green government was processed for two years, the Stortinget did not need two years to process it afterwards. One did it in a month. During the month we've been through, there's been a discussion of the municipal bill and a revision of the national budget. There is no one who has complained that there is too much time, and the committee said that in this case too it was sufficient. One should learn from Switzerland, there are several who say, and we have learned a lot from Switzerland. But one of the challenges with Switzerland and Germany is that if we were to use their model in Norway, it would mean that the Jærbane would be owned by Rogaland County. The racetrack was to be owned by Nord-Trøndelag and South-Trøndelag County. It would have been a split of Norwegian railways that I did not think would have been good, so we have collected all the responsibility in a railway directorate. We collect all the materials in a material company. When red-green politicians repeatedly come up here and say that this is fragmentation, I should like to see them find substance in their claims, and not just throw out words like ‘privatisation’ and ‘splitting’ because they know it sounds negative in a few ears. The state still has full control over the railway. The state has to own everything that goes on the railway. It's not privatisation. In this debate, the red-greens have emphatically underlined the poor maintenance of the railway. I have not heard a worse after my own eight years of government. Nevertheless, in this debate one points out that now one has to solve 70 pst. of the problem, while the 30 pst. which is about bad organization, according to the red-green numbers, they don't intend to do anything about it. We solve both through increased appropriations and through reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4039	I just have to apologize and say that I am becoming more and more blamed on the minister when he is able to stand here on the platform and compare a major railway reform with a simple bomb package. That's what he said. We wanted to get ahead of two road packages that the people out there are waiting for, that's right. He managed to deliver one, but the Road Package Helgeland has not yet arrived, and then he manages to equate it with the treatment of a major reform. I think it says everything. It also says the reaction we got here today, and I must say that at least I am not surprised at the reaction to such an act. There are some people who are trying to say that the Workers' Party has not done anything on the railway side. Then they've slept an hour, my claim. For what was the situation in 2005 when the red-greens took over? Then there was no lag, then there was full investment on the railway and full expansion? No, it wasn't like that. It was already a Routes were in the process of being closed. What's happened? Yes, the red-green raised the budget for the railway sector from 6 billion. At that time, DKK 18.7 billion. NOK when we left the government offices. If someone manages to stand on the platform and say that you haven't done anything in the railway field, you haven't followed in the hour. So you can ask, what have we done after? I have to say I am quite amazed at the right representatives, who are standing here and running the disc saying that there is still a lag on maintenance. What did they do during the period they set and delivered their alternative budgets? When did they overthrew the Workers' Party or the Red-Greens when it came to increasing maintenance and reintroducing it during that period? At least I haven't found it. I haven't been on the Stortinget for that long, but I can, in order to remember, take the last year for which the budget was submitted. What kind of budget did the Right and Advance Party present? Well, then they put out a $400 million budget. kr under the budget of the Workers' Party for maintenance. Then they stand today and try to take credit for a settlement that was concluded in Stortinget. Who did it so that the maintenance was lifted in 2015? That was not the proposal of the Right and the Progressive Party. That was $400 million. kr under on maintenance. Fortunately, the result was a little better, but it was thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Left and reconciled with them. But the Labour Party – whether you like it or not – still has more to both road and rail in 2015 than what is in the Progress Party proposal and what was maintained. Then at least you have to try to relate to the facts when it comes to it. Then I think the way the representative of the Progress Party talks about those who stood outside and called for the issue we are dealing with today is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4052	So in a matter of reorganization of the railway sector, it's the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen that's itself going on, using the first part of its main post to talk about road maintenance and opening up the ball that way. I think that the Council of State should then be willing from this pulpit to acknowledge that he understands what is in the Stortinget's documents. If you read Stortinget's documents, you'll see that during the entire red-green period, the alternative budgets of the Progress Party were 1.54 billion. kr below the red-greens for operation and maintenance. Now I see that the council is shaking its head and shoving, but this is what I'm reading out of the budgets that exist. If he has another story to tell, it's great if he can come up here and tell me how he's reading the budgets. But it's not surprising when you see what the man who in his time said that Norwegian roads should be so good that it was safe to drive on them – the Vice President of the Party Per Sandberg. He thought it was right to shave the budgets, as Karin Andersen said earlier. I hope that the whole Advancement Party stands for that, and that they do not turn around in shame over their own history. It is quite right, as the Workers' Party's representatives have previously pointed out, that much of the increase in maintenance has come because of the budgets of the Left and Christian People's Party, and honor be to them, and honor be to us also who have followed it up in our alternative budgets. I just want to end by asking the Council of States a question and give a consideration to the reform. I have asked one more question twice now, but I have not received a proper answer. When we have road tunnel closures, the State Road Service uses considerable resources to see what the consequences are. Follow-up research is called that. I asked the Council of State about that, and what the Council of State said is that it is clear that we are going to evaluate this in the ministry. But I am not satisfied that the biggest railway reform in Norway's history has been to be assessed in the past 100 years by assessments in the department – strongly ideologically marked – as we hear that this whole railway reform is. I want proper follow-up research. I want it documented. I want evidence. I want science to show that this is a way of organising the railway that helps to improve passengers, for railway safety, for safety, for employees, for the development of passenger numbers, for simply a good railway, as we are to have it, and so people in Norway deserve it. Will the Council of State give us that, or will he continue to rule by ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4061	Do we want something with orbit or do we not? I'm going to think that no matter what political stance you've asked, it's like we haven't really really seen the great need that's there for public transport and the way around the big cities. I'm going to be the first – on behalf of the Progress Party – to say that looking back 15-20 years, one was less aware of the role of public transport and, not least, of the track. But then I also think others in this room can be so sober and say that you have not invested in maintenance to the extent that you should have done. One has granted money, but one thing is to give money to new equipment or to new trains, but precisely this with maintenance has been neglected. You have to be so clean and honest that you can admit. So to the representative Myrli, who has been in that there was a representative who had not read the reform proposal that is now under consideration. No, but I said in competition, it's very good to have choices. It was said in connection with the Oslo–Karlstad route, that one actually had an opportunity there to choose different, and that it was very good. It wasn't that the reform made up for it. The reform provided, as I said in another sentence, a competitive environment as we have with Onions, which has to compete on the short-range network for a certain period of time. That's what one sees now, that it's going to be an opportunity. I would also like to say the same thing about the ownership that NSB and Rome Property have today for the stations. It's like SAS should have owned the airports, and it was only Norwegian or only SAS or just Lufthansa, for that matter, that flew at such an airport. That's exactly what we're going to do about, distinguishing a lot more between ownership and being a carrier.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4072	It was not only the representative Sverre Myrli who misunderstanded the leader of the Progress Party, but also the State Council of the Advance Party recognised that he had to say that his fractional leader on the Stortinget had probably made a bit of a mistake. Then you can start to wonder, now that there are so many concepts, so many distances, so many reforms and so many places that are mixed: what really people have realized by the railway reform of the Progress Party when Åse Michaelsen and others have been out talking about it, when it's so confusing that you can just come back to the pulpit and explain yourself again, where you would be. So a comment to Heidi Nordby Lunde, who referred to a completely NRK-satistical entry. I just have to say that my favorite post is enough where Per Sandberg asks for referendums because he is so dissatisfied with the government partner Right. But it's clear that we can have that kind of discussion up here in the pulpit, or we can talk about actual politics. Ola Elvesuen made an interesting post. I'm not going to in any way to underestimate Elvesuen and Left's commitment to public transport in Oslo, but it's like you haven't been competitively exposed to traffic on the T-Bahn or on the tram. There are also many ways in which you have chosen to be in a dialogue with your employees. History should also have it that the whole concept that made possible the 5-minute routes on the tram in its time came from the employees of the tram, who were willing to change, and who talked to the city council about it. That's the kind of force you can pull out when you go into dialogue, and not the way Solvik-Olsen has suggested – to be in conflict. But it should also be mentioned that some of the most important things that have happened at the T-Bahn in Oslo are the T-Bahn. Another very important thing is that we got the opportunity to use tolls for the operation of the T-Bahn. Infrastructure development and money: Both parts have enabled us to increase the frequency of the T-Bahn, because – and now I'm going to say a boring word – one could change the direction balance of the T-Bahn when one got the T-Bahn. Then you take another grip on the turn of Løren, which gives you an even better direction balance on traffic in the Oslo area and can increase traffic even more. You have to say that it is the organization in Oslo that has done this. I would argue that a strong, strongly contributing factor has been that proper infrastructure investments have been made and significantly more money has been spent on operation and maintenance, and – not least – new T-cars have been purchased. It has made Oslo now have a collective offer that you can really be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4085	I think that not least today's City Council and the majority in Oslo will appreciate the last post, which says that Oslo has a public traffic it's worth being proud of, because in all other workers' party posts about Oslo's public traffic we hear the opposite. But it's good to have a confession. Then I just want to correct and remind you that the last budget of the red-green government that was adopted was the 2013 budget. Then the Railway Agency's budget was less than 12 billion. kr. Today it's 50 pst. more. I'm proud of that. I am just going to assure the representative Holmås that of course we are going to have evaluations, we are going to make assessments. This isn't a game. This is about making a transport everyday for people. When he talks about having scientific evidence, I wonder what scientific thesis the previous government used, when they let the maintenance crew double in eight years. I should've liked to see it, because that science I wouldn't have had a lot to do with it. SV spends a lot of time talking about the snow that fell last year: I've learned that we're not going to talk about the previous eight years, it's something the red-green would prefer to have asked, but I notice that talking about the Bondevik government's period, it's okay again. I think it's a little pointless. So it's over ten years ago, so I shouldn't mention it. On the other hand, I want to repeat some of what I said in my post, which Lise Christoffersen obviously ignored: there is nothing in this reform that we have now, which affects the prices of the tickets themselves. When the red-green and professional movements point to the fact that in England the train tickets are more expensive than in Norway, and therefore any reform in Norway – by today’s majority – will mean prices at English level, there is no logic in it, because in England the taxpayers’ money is almost not used to finance the tickets. We do that in Norway, and we will continue – I said that in my post – because we are going to make it economically attractive to take the railway. So I hope it's so clear that it'll also be remembered later. The same is true of the chaos that Lise Christoffersen feared on the ticket side. I mentioned in my post that we are now establishing – and it has been in the evening post, so there is no secret – a company where the county municipalities, NSB, Router and others are joining forces to get a common ticket system on public transport in Norway. It's going to take some time in some areas, because not all states want this, for example. The trombones, but then I think Lise Christoffersen should take this up with his own party traps that sit and brake there. But we're going to have one common timetable. This will solve the problems that do not arise as a result of a reform from us, but which are already a fact today, which has been a problem for a long time, but which one has not been able to solve. So we'll find solutions to the problems that are old, and then we'll also solve the problems that have arisen recently, but in sum we'll do something about maintenance and systems that will make us get a better railway tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4102	I didn't intend to take the word any more, but I can't leave it undisputed from the Socialist Left Party that we have reduced the appropriations for operation and maintenance on the railway by 1.5 billion. kr. I've found notes in Innst. 13 S for 2012–2013, where it is concretely demonstrated that the section of the Progress Party has asked questions to the Ministry of Finance, where it was then found that the Railway Agency is not able to quantify the maintenance run on the network. It is obvious that the Progress Party was concerned with that question since they asked it. Furthermore, the members of the Progress Party write: ‘These members point out that we are now in a situation where workers who maintain the railway are cancelled and that according to the VG on 12 November there are 30 to 50 people. These members believe that this is totally unsustainable. On this basis, these members will increase the entry by 250 million. Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1000 cm3 but not exceeding 1000 cm3 Alternative State Budget of the Progress Party for 2013. These members will indicate that the operational and maintenance situation has been unsustainable for several years and that the situation on the rail network in the East has been particularly unstable.» The Progress Party has therefore proposed to increase the appropriations for maintenance. There has been a bet area for us in the opposition, and there is a bet area for us in the position – despite the fact that SV believes the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4116	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4119	I just want to stress that one side of the competition that has been little debated today is the terms of the employees. What we know from Sweden is that it's cut in crew, it's cut in pension contracts and it's cut in cleanness. It's stupid. I'm a socialist, and I think it's good that people serve properly – but I notice that the right side thinks that these things are worth playing with. As for the snow that fell last year, the council itself began to talk about it. So even though budgets can be found in the last years when the Progress Party has increased operational and maintenance items, the sum of the eight red-green years is a cut in the operating and maintenance line of more than 1.5 billion. kr. It is the increased maintenance seat run that would have been, if the Progress Party had been given control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4128	First, I want to say that I think the Council of State has a tone towards the Storting from this pulpit that one should perhaps consider adjusting a little bit. These are important things we stand and discuss. My question actually concerned a question that very many train commuters are concerned about. If I understand correctly, the Council of State has now stood on this pulpit and guaranteed that in the future one will be able to buy one ticket from Drammen, one year's card from Drammen, which can be used by all the companies that might run that route in the future. There are quite a number of different sections that meet in the Drammen, and go inward to Oslo. Then I register that the Council of State has guaranteed that it will be all right. The second question I asked was the employee's relationship, it was about pay and employment, it was about pensions. It didn't answer the government, I noticed that too – and I asked a direct question. Abid Q. Raja stood on the platform here earlier today and said that the Left and Christian People's Party had been given the advantage of securing the pension rights of employees, or maybe he said: secure the employees good pension rights. The only thing that says about it in the message is that it's going to get worse, and the only thing that's in the settings of the collaboration parties is that they confirm what's in the message. We'll wait until the minutes are available and then we'll see what the representative Raja said, on behalf of the four cooperation parties, and see if it harmonizes with what is in the message. Then it's a shame the council didn't answer if he was behind what Raja said – but probably it was thought he wouldn't answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4139	I just thought I'd try to end the debate. There has been a very long debate, and a very interesting debate, and the Transport Committee is not done with this – we need to have a couple of other debates as well. There have been some allegations and we disagree on a number of points. Sometimes we may have felt that we haven't read the same documents, but I think that if we sit down and do it on vacation, we find that we're not as far apart as it might seem here. In the case of tickets, Router in Oslo and Akershus have managed to create a common ticketing system that allows you to use the same card on all transport, whether it is a train, a T-Bahn, or a tram. There's something we're trying to give to the neighboring states as well. In Eastfold we have a project called Seamless in the South, where Eastfold goes into the same system to get this together. When the Council of State says this is also done nationally, it just makes sense. I think what we're facing is the beginning of a fairly long process, but it's important that it goes fast, for the sake of the employees. In 2008, if I don't remember completely wrong, some rules were laid down by the previous government on how to deal with the issue of pensions and such in connection with the outsourcing of competition. A number of rules were outlined relating to whether there was a transfer of activities or not. You can go into the archives and look at it from the government in 2008, where you will get answers to some questions. Otherwise, the practice you're now applying is similar to that you're applying in the state in connection with this kind of organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4153	Truls Wickholm has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4156	A little because who you listen to here, it should not be competed at price, it has been guaranteed by the Council of State. It cannot be competed on frequency, for it is to be provided by the directorate with timetables. If you believe Abid Raja, you don't have to compete with the employees' pensions, and you don't have to compete – at least not at first – with material, because it's the state's property. It could be okay, maybe for both the Storting and others, that the Council of State decided where there is really room for the companies to compete. How are they supposed to be able to make money on running, when all of these factors are said to be locked? Could the Council of State be so kind as to take the floor and clarify: will there be research on this, or will it not? Or is he himself going to write notes that might have to clean him himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4161	Swearing Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4164	I don't know if we're going to laugh or laugh at the contribution of the Minister of Transport, when he compared the railway reform to the treatment of the package. Dear friend, it is possible not to be able to see the principle in two such matters. There is a consensus in the Committee to deal with the package quickly, and there is agreement on the Committee to deal with the Urban Package Grenland quickly – as we often do when there is agreement in the Committee, and when there are curative issues. Here there is disagreement, and this is no curative matter. It's a big principle case. It is the largest reorganization of the railway since Norway's State Railways were established in 1883. Finally, let me quote from the committee position. It says: ‘The majority would point out that it should be relatively curative to engage in the reform proposal on the basis of the fact that the Workers’ Party itself has been in government for the period 2005 to 2013.’» So curative was it that the Minister of Transport had to have 20 months on him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4176	I thought I wouldn't take the floor, because I expected the minister to ask for the floor. Now there are many unanswered questions here that I think the minister should answer before he leaves this important matter. One thing is that you try it through in a short time, you have such a procedure, but you don't take the time to at least answer the questions you get in the hall, I think it's remarkable. One thing I also notice with regard to the flight – and that is a positive thing to bring with me, and that is something that we have been concerned about and are still concerned about – is that we should believe in the Right Representative, you will not do anything with the flight until 2028. When it comes to employee rights, I'm not as sure, because there's something else in the option. In any case, it is stated that future employees will not be part of their pension arrangements. So I notice again that the minister won't take over the numbers that we've been talking about, from 2015, and would like to talk about 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4183	I would like to answer a question. I accept written questions if one is not satisfied with the oral one of the sheep in the hall, and it is just calling me to the inquiry at any time, so I will set up. I regret to see that I have been called in only 18 times this year – against what was 40–50 times a year under the red-green government – so I really miss getting more questions. That being said, the Gjøvik track is already exposed to competition. I don't think anyone would say that the Gjøvik Railway is an arena for social dumping, for lack of cleaning, for poor treatment of the travellers. On the contrary, the Gjøvik Railway is the route of the NSB local train system that has the best customer satisfaction, for all private business operators, including most public sector operators, know that they have customers who pay their wages. Then one has to make it attractive for customers to choose your service, your product, instead of the train travellers choosing their private car. This is what competition is all about: making even better offers to travellers, so that more people want to travel. When Gjøvikbanen was exposed to competition in its time, there were many different quality criteria, but the ticket price was not one of the things that the train company would be allowed to do, but it was a lot different: the number of departures and other things. And when we talk to people who work in the NSB Gjøvik track, they themselves point out that there is a “drive” in the company with a customer focus that is very special. And I had hoped that the Workers' Party and SV in this debate could also assume that it is actually possible to stimulate an enterprise through better management – because that's essentially what it's about: getting a customer-oriented management – and getting more people to travel by rail, because that's where one gets the income of the company. So now I hope I've answered that. For social dumping: we have been very clear that there are rules for employment in Norway. They will not be neglected even if you submit a tender. They shall apply. The Working Environment Act applies. Then I have answered the question about the price and ticket system and such things. I can repeat myself a third time, but we've been pretty clear on this. The fact that the Workers' Party wants to ask questions and then doubt things is nothing new, but it does not change the fact that we have worked ahead and now have established a company to do that job. Today, the NSB's ticketing system tolerates exactly what is being asked. So it would take a little bit more time to involve all the different collective societies in all the states to get them into one ticket system. A lot of work here is done, so that's something I'm looking forward to doing. It's important to get a better railway for those who use it, that's what this reform is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4198	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4212	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Sverre Myrli, who is now acting as rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4221	One of the most important settlements that the Storting has made in recent years is climate reconciliation. The climate agreement is important because it is crucial for us to reduce climate-damaging emissions. Climate must permeate all policy areas. I assume that no matter what policy area we are discussing, and no matter what department that promotes issues for the Stortinget or works on different issues, there are people who sit and think about how this affects climate emissions – whether it's the Ministry of Transport, whether it's the Ministry of Economic Affairs, or what department it might be. Climate must permeate all policy areas, including the transport sector, that we are now discussing. Some may say: the transport sector in particular. In order to reduce climate change emissions, action in the transport sector is crucial. The Committee therefore agrees that targets for emissions from the transport sector should be set. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, will ask the Government to ensure that such climate change targets from the transport sector are set in the process of rolling out the national transport plan. The majority of the Committee, the parties I have just mentioned, therefore believe that the government should ensure that climate change emissions targets by 2020 and 2030 are the leading drivers of the government’s work on the national transport plan. I thought this was a curative matter. I really expect that the National Transport Plan is planned on the basis of what the Storting has decided to be the leading and supporting elements of the climate agreement, and therefore have some problems in understanding why we could not achieve unanimity in the committee, that is, why the government parties could not be involved in it. However, there is at least a clear majority in favour of the proposal to set clear targets for climate emissions from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4234	Thank you very much to the Committee for the consideration it has given to this proposal. I believe it is essential that the area we are now discussing, namely the area of transport, have clear climate objectives and that it is at the bottom of the whole process. I am very pleased that the Committee demands that there be clear indications of climate change emissions in the context of the presentation of the national transport plan, that it must form a basis. Nevertheless, when I have promoted the proposal – as you will see – that this should be included, that a clear climate objective should also be set for the planning process, it has the following reasons: If we start at the finish line, the political work, with the national transport plan, and we find that projects have not been planned that are good enough for us to be able to achieve the climate goals, then we have done a great deal. Because then we put ourselves in a position where we actually don't have a factual basis, that is, a professional basis, which is in line with the ambitions we depend on to sit down. Therefore, I believe that there is good reason why the signal to go to the trades must be: Plan within the following scenarios for what kind of climate targets we can assume. The Minister of Transport says that well, it will be unfortunate to do so, because we have already given notice that we must look at the projects that transform us into the low-carbon society. But until that's my question, think if that's not enough? Think about whether the trade unions present their projects, which are the ones that are needed to convert us into the low-carbon society, and that is not enough? We need to have done a work that's wider. Then it is incredibly important that the trade unions have been given the message of climate goals at an early stage rather than saying that these are the best projects we have that contribute to a low-carbon society – and then it is discovered that it is not enough to actually achieve the climate ambitions that we have set ourselves. So in the letter to the committee, the Minister of Transport says that well, that's how we don't yet know what our climate goals are going to be, so it's stupid to give a temporary goal. But that's not right. We know – and the Minister for Transport will know if he asks the Minister for Climate Change – that with the approach that exists from the EU, we will have a climate target that is – probably – close to 40 pst. over 35 p.m., but definitely in that landscape. So if the Council of State says to its offices that they're going to plan for 35 pst. and for 40 pst. With the two scenarios, it's probably the game space we have. If the Minister of Transport says that let us clarify these relations with the EU before we set our targets for the national transport plan, then I have this to say to it: No, you know what, it is very dangerous, because we have been told by the Minister of Climate and Environment that negotiations with the EU cannot be expected to be completed until 2017-2018. It is then that the national transport plan will be presented to us – that is after we have completed the treatment of the national transport plan, in the worst case. We cannot wait as a crowd to set a target for our climate targets for the national transport plan until after the adoption of the national transport plan. Everyone understands that we have to set that target before, otherwise we will not have a submitted national transport plan that is at all close to responding to the climate targets that we have set. We have a climate deal that says we're going to cut emissions in Norway by two-thirds of the total reductions, down to 45-47 million tonnes. That's what we're going to do in the current period, until 2020. It will be within the national transport plan. But it is also the case that the Minister for Transport has said that the next national transport plan is due to expire in 2029, and from 31 December 2029 to 1 January 2030, there is not so much time for conversion. So the transition has to be made in the transport sector by 2030. Therefore, the national transport plan presented must contain both the infrastructure investments and the operating aid necessary to cope with the transition to the low-carbon society, and to take the transition that is needed to achieve the objectives we have set for the non-quota sector towards the EU, i.e. somewhere between 35 pst. and 40 pst. My tip is that it's 40 pst. It must be within the national transport plan, and if we see that there is insufficient infrastructure and operating support within that package, then the national transport plan must also contain the means to achieve the climate objectives by 2030. That is why I thank the Committee for saying that the transport plan should be submitted with climate objectives. Those climate objectives must be clear, but in addition, I address my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4257	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4260	We've spent a lot of time before today, so we're going to be a little tight with time now. What is the point of the Right and Advance Party is that we take that letter seriously from the Council of State. We see that the government is working fully with the National Transport Plan and has given its steering signals, and that climate is part of the three main strategic objectives. At the same time, we know that it's not just the transport industry that is going to meet the climate agreement, it's actually all the sectors, and at least we don't want to be involved in a proposal that involves putting this into practice more than what we say in our remark. It's basically what's my main point, that we're not going to vote for that proposal, because we just feel that it's prejudging the events and that we've said the same thing. We say in our comment: ‘These members therefore believe that the emission targets in the national transport plan need to be seen in the context of the climate objectives that Norway has committed itself to in 2030.’» It is also that this national transport plan does not last until 2029, it lasts until 2027. We're talking about 2018-2027, and it's two years before you get to 2020. Otherwise, much is happening in the transport sector which means that it is likely to be advanced in terms of vehicle emissions. In Router it has been said that by 2020 all buses will be climate-neutral, and then the target has been reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4276	The Green Party supports the position of the majority that the targets for greenhouse gas emissions in 2020 and 2030 should lead the national transport plan. Thank you to SV who has addressed a very important matter with this proposal. This proposal is just a confirmation of something the Biggest has decided, and it is in a way alarming that it has to be repeated once again, but it is good that at least it seems to have a majority. We have heard almost countless times the Prime Minister and the Minister of Climate Change repeat that the government is going to strengthen the climate agreement. It is then quite special that the Right and Advance Party today are voting against such a fundamental proposal as this. I am particularly disappointed with the Progress Party, which at least has a very good quality – as most often – and it is that they call a spade for a spade and tend to say what they actually mean. But now the Progress Party is helping to increase the already very high uncertainty about how serious the government is about cutting greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. And I quote: ‘The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party refer to the letter of reply from the Ministry of Transport and will emphasise that climate and environment are one of three main objectives of the NTP 2018-2027 target structure. In the guidelines for the plan phase, the ETAs and Avinor are asked to develop a climate strategy to prioritise projects that contribute as much as possible to the transition to the low-carbon society.’» So everyone in this room knows that since 1990, there have been a variety of large numbers of times repeating that kind of statement, and everyone knows what the result is: over the course of 25 years, emissions from the transport sector have increased by 30 pst. They were supposed to go down. The Minister for Transport, as several other speakers have pointed out in his letter, claims that it is unfortunate to set preliminary objectives for the transport sector before the government has concluded negotiations in Brussels. It underlines how totally unexplained Norwegian climate policy really is. Because we know very well how far Norway is according to the emissions cut form, and then the government uses the negotiations in Brussels as an excuse to spend even more on that job. If Norway is to have a climate policy that is at all similar to that of the European Union, and it has decided that, at the initiative of the government, we must have an objective for the non-quota sector of the order of 30-40 pst. Cut, cut, And so we're just going to do that in 15 years. It will necessarily require quite fundamental innovation in transport policy. The game left has promised for the longest time that it will be 40 pst. Cut, but the blue bedmates of the Left promise nothing at all. The government later believes that on the one hand we will continue to welding Norway firmly into large, expensive motorway projects, without climate accounting, and then on the other hand we will wait to define what kind of climate objectives these projects will meet. It is quite strange how such a policy could be linked to the overall climate commitments that Norway has. What we have to do, of course, is stop pretending that transport planning can take place independently of the climate objectives, or as the representative Igstad briefly summarised it now, continues a policy where we do not want to concreteise the objectives – I repeat: do not want to concreteise the objectives. At the same time, we're going to commit to something like 40 pst. Cut on a national basis, we will not specify the targets for the sector that has had the largest increase in emissions over the past 25 years. It's pretty hard to understand. What this decision means is a very clear march grounder to the government to specify the goals of how to cut as much as you will commit to, within just 15 years, and much more – and that is very important – over the 15 to 25 years that follow. The majority have asked the government to put forward a proposal for a climate law, and this debate is a very good example of why we need a climate law. We need a law that prevents different sectors from pursuing their own climate policies without committing themselves to achieving a concrete share of the overall national targets. But while we are waiting for that climate law, this is a good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4300	Let me first start by thanking the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås for promoting this proposal for a representative. He is, like the Left, concerned about reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. Doing this is an important part of the green shift. Transport accounts for a significant proportion of greenhouse gas emissions today. The main planning tool in the transport sector is the national transport plan. It is therefore important in the view of the Left that reduced greenhouse gas emissions become an integral part of the NTP and lead all NTP actions. It has already been decided that the growth of transport is to be taken by bicycle, by foot and by rail. However, this is not enough for the sector to achieve the climate objectives that Norway has committed itself to. It is therefore necessary to provide further measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is important for the Left that all sectors take responsibility and take part in the necessary reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to which we have committed ourselves. It is important for us that this is determined by the size of the entire transport sector. The sector accounts for some of the largest emissions and can therefore contribute a great deal. A reduction in line with our commitments here will also mean a lot to achieve the overall goal. The left is pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with us, and not least with the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Today, we will decide that the greenhouse gas emission targets we have in 2020 and 2030 will be leading the way for submissions to the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4313	This is an important theme. For this reason, the government has already said in its leadership for the work of the agencies on the National Transport Plan that one of the steps we are going to take is to develop a climate strategy. It shall be a strategy that prioritises projects which contribute as much as possible to the transition to the low-carbon society. I think that is also why the Right and the Progressive Party believe that the proposal itself is superfluous, simply because the government is already working in this area. And then it's up to the Storting, when we decide in 2017, probably, on the national transport plan, to make assessments and corrections and take the final decisions on what the transport plan is. Let me say anyway that the work on cutting unwanted environmental emissions is important. We have so far met the objectives of the national transport plan with today's majority. We are in front of the form of appropriations. As we have just discussed, we have increased appropriations specifically for maintenance far more than what was the objective of the national transport plan. The appropriations for the railway have increased by 50 pst. It's a formidable bet, especially when you know how many dollars are now gradually going to lie in each percent. Then we have also at the collective effort of the larger cities, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, made sure that the reward scheme is 30 pst. over the form for this year. This means that more cities can focus more on collective solutions than on what has been the objective. It's also important to give people an alternative to a private car, an alternative that makes them work everyday while being able to travel more environmentally friendly. In other areas, such as bicycles and bicycles, a reward scheme of its own has been established. The money that's been distributed. But to what I'm really even more satisfied with, for one thing is what a law in the budgets when the money is granted, another thing that an actually realizes: In terms of the national transport plan, the then government for 2010–2013 managed to settle about. 70 pst. of the promises they gave on the number of kilometres each year. In 2014 we realized 30 pst. More miles than what we put up to, instead of boasting of numbers and not complying, we boast of numbers and overrecovery. I think that's important. Then we've worked hard to bring down the costs on the bike routes to be built, so one gets several kilometers for the money. We are working to ensure that a building is built where you can make a better conversion of transport, i.e. that one facilitates that more people want to bike. Then one often has to do this where there are a lot of people. In addition, we work with the municipalities to ensure that someone in some places can take more responsibility for the construction of the bike path itself, in the hope that we will reduce the costs, but maintain the quality. When the agencies work with the National Transport Plan, I have said that they must be visionary. This must not be just an approach where the climate strategy means that a person should re-prioritise the order when building a railway or road project. One should rather consider where one should be in 2030 and 2050 in view of having built up new infrastructure for the type of cars, buses and trucks that run on the roads once in the future. That means we have to look at what kind of charging infrastructure you need to have around the country. What kind of vision does one have on hydrogen and the infrastructure for it? There we see that there are very different views about a question about the Elbil Association, which will have a lot of charging points in the center, versus, for example, the Elbil Association. Tesla, who sees it's important to have a charging point between cities, to give range. We need to look at ITS – intelligent traffic systems – and use modern technology to help people find out what is available to meet their transport needs, but also actively influence them in their choices. By making available the information about different offers, one can also influence the choices they make there and then, unlike today, when people like to travel out of old habit. That this is possible – I am convinced of that. It is possible for people to choose differently if they know that at the same time they make a at least equal choice for their everyday lives. Then it's the sum of information, the sum of investments, the sum of offers and the sum of technologies that will be the success criterion for achieving good climate goals – and yes, it's more likely to go beyond what was planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4335	I think it is strange that the government parties do not support the proposal that the majority here supports. I don't think so, either, that the Council of State gave some very good reason for it, even though he has set his agencies in motion to do two things that seem reasonable, namely both thinking visionally and thinking about what is going on to get us to where we are going – on the way to a low-carbon society. The question is, where are we going to be in 2030, on the road to a low-carbon society? We know today that the EU negotiations are unlikely to be completed before the National Transport Plan is presented by the Council of State of Ketil Solvik-Olsen. This gives me reason to ask the question: What kind of goals does the Council of State see as being to have in the national transport plan when it is presented? Does he want a target there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4343	We have already communicated to our agencies that the long-term goal in Norway is a low-carbon society. But it would be unnatural for me to stand in the Storting and pre-empt the outcome of negotiations with the EU, where it has not yet been concluded. The fact that the Right and Advance Party in this matter are voting against is really something the representatives of big business have to explain. But based on the conversation I have had with them, this is about a proposal that one perceives that the government is already working on. Then one does not see it as natural for one to make suggestions. It's really a bit of a go-ahead for many of the proposals that have come from red-green parties lately, that one suggests things that the government is already doing, and then gets angry when it's not adopted. We have recently seen the same thing in connection with, for example: changes in the legislation on mobile homes, with which the government has already announced last year. Then the Workers' Party promotes a proposal a year later and becomes dissatisfied with the fact that the government is already doing the job, so there is no greater reason for it to vote in favour of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4357	Governments don't deal with my question. What I am asking is: is it going to be set a climate target in the NTP if the EU negotiations with Norway are not completed? Will the Council of State invite the Storting to set a climate target for the transport sector that is well-worked and well-worked, and where the Council of State will be allowed to have all the right of initiative he wants, as long as he invites himself to the Storing to discuss this and to land a proposal? Is this going to happen in the national transport plan, prior to the national transport plan, or is it such that the Council of State believes that if negotiations with the EU are not in place, this will not be an objective in the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4364	Now it is my goal that we agree with the European Union and get that goal in place. Then you'll have to take your grief when that time comes. I think it's important that we have an overall approach to climate policy, that we see things in context, that we don't split up and have one goal adopted in one sector one day, and then work the next day without looking at the whole thing. I would like to understand that SV is used to working like that, because I remember that when I sat on the Stortinget as an opposition politician, one day a climate report was presented that said that the oil industry's emissions were going to fall, but when the oil and energy minister presented his oil report shortly later, it stated that the emissions were going to rise. That kind of target approach does not seem to give any cause for rejoicing, nor does it give any predictability to the actors. We have a comprehensive climate policy. We must ensure that we have good agreements with the European Union that benefit the climate and that benefit Norway. Then we can't sit and shoot a single sector now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4371	I am pleased to note from the Council of State that we should not only look at investments and planning up to 2030, but also climate targets up to 2050, cf. the case we had earlier, about the railway. It is necessary to have long-term planning. It is also necessary for the government to look at these climate objectives by 2030 in conjunction with other policies, such as: in the context of the charging system on cars, where there is also an agreement that this is a very central part of the objective. 2030 is just another 15 years. We need to act every year to achieve the target of greenhouse gas emission reductions and therefore do not have time to wait for an accurate figure. It must be easy to place a clear order to set targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why the Left welcomes this proposal. But since we have to use each year, I would like to take the opportunity to ask about today's decision: Is there a clear order, for example. to the State Road Service that we should not have traffic growth other than in public transport, bicycles and times in the letters of assignment and orders now for next year and next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4378	In what we have ordered from our agencies, we ask for guidelines for the planning phase, that the departments and Avinor develop a climate strategy to prioritise projects that contribute as much as possible to the transition to the low-carbon society, that is, to take us in that direction. We have also said that the objective of the transport sector is formulated as follows: ‘A secure transport system promotes value creation and contributes to the transition to the low-carbon society’. So it's always going to be a discussion – and we're going to do the next thing – about being allowed to build a road, from a climate point of view. I believe that here we must have more thoughts in our head at once. First of all, we know that there are already many queues. This means that collective and commercial transport is struggling. That's an argument that we should build better roads. Another argument is that, at the same time, there is a technology development in the vehicle sector that makes what is currently perceived as a point-to-point problem, when the next generation is on the road, is likely to be largely solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4383	Does the Minister for Transport agree that we are likely to agree with the EU on a cut-off level for the non-quota sector of the order of 30-40 p.m. and that the Norwegian transport sector will therefore have to take a cut over the next 15 years reflecting around that cut-off level?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4388	As I have already said, it is unnatural for me to begin to signal such figures as the Council of State when representing a government to negotiate with the EU. We want to get a climate policy that is linked, that is well thought out, and that makes us use our resources in the best possible way. Then we have to make sure that we get implemented cut where we get the most effect of them, so that we don't sit down and define something that we think today is important, and then find a completely different solution, which gives much more currency and much better environment for the money. The cooperation between the various Councils of State and between the accumulation and government in order to achieve the best possible climate policy for Norway, the EU and the world is important. Then it's not natural for me to start defining one point, one target for our transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4395	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås gets a last line, since the representative Rasmus Hansson did not use his second line. We get to be flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4398	Thank you, I'm glad of the flexibility. This replication has really clarified everything, and it's incredibly important that the Storting adopts what we're adopting today. We in the Energy and Environment Committee, at least, have been told by the Council of State that there is no reason to believe that we will be finishing negotiations with the EU before the national transport plan is presented. If we don't finish, we have to set a non-quota target for the non-quota sector. We need to set a target for the transport sector. We do so in connection with the National Transport Plan, because it is the most important document that describes the plans up to 2029 – to the otherwise informed Igstad – if we are to interpret the letters of the Council of State in the way I read it in any case: from 2018 to 2029. Therefore, my question is: at what time will the Council of State involve Stortinget in setting a climate target for the transport sector? Will he do so before the submission of NTP or in NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4409	Now I think again we are beginning to take a lot of sorrows in advance, because the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has heard rumors about something. I think we should deal with what is happening, together with the European Union. We're going to negotiate, and my goal is to get started with this as soon as possible. If we see that this becomes problematic, we'll come back. But I mention again that we are already running, and there is going to be a climate strategy in this. It's something the previous government didn't do. Now I see that in opposition Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås thinks that what he himself did not do has become terribly important to do. That's where we deliver, and then we're going to come back and get it in place. But I also believe that it is important to have a good climate policy that is linked. With the kind of policy approach that Heikki Holmås practiced when he himself was a representative of a government party, where he presented an oil message that would increase emissions, while the climate announcement said it would go down – when that kind of context is missing – it doesn't help much to talk about target numbers. It won't be credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4420	I don't think one should go far to find governments that speak with two tongues, when we have a climate minister who says that everyone is working all the time to reduce emissions, while Councillor Solvik-Olsen is here saying that we are presenting a climate strategy, but there are no clear plans to provide climate targets for the transport sector. I think it's worth noting to us who are on the Energy and Environment Committee. In order to teach the Council of State on the issue of climate change objectives, it is therefore the case that we have a quota-free sector. There, the industry will have exactly the same framework conditions if we reach a new agreement with the EU. I think we will, because all the signals from the European Union indicate that this is going well. There we're going to get the same conditions for Norwegian business as for other businesses. Then it is the non-quota sector: it is the transport sector, agriculture and heating. So it's very limited. There is a limited proportion of Norwegian emissions and the transport sector is at the forefront of them. If you think you can come forward with a national transport plan and don't have a clear target of where to be in 2030, and don't make sure you cut a stone's throw at how to pursue a policy in the field of transport that will take us there by 2030, then you're going to bombing fundamentally, or you don't have any plans to achieve the goals that are actually to be negotiated with the European Union. Therefore, I am extremely pleased that the Stortinget today decides that the national transport plan will be presented with clear climate targets for 2020 and 2030. And since it is impossible to get the Council of State to say whether he intends to anchor the objectives of the Storting in front of the National Transport Plan, or whether they will come into the National Transport Plan, I believe that this is a matter that we have to pursue, with both the Minister of Climate and Environment and the Minister of Transport, until we get a proper answer. If not, it is we, as responsible parties on the Stortinget, who will have to make sure that we have a national transport plan presented to us and where we are not going to sit on the Stortinget and try to find out the professional basis of what kind of transport policy is going to take place in order to reach the commitments that the government has initiated towards the Stortinget to get us involved in our accession to the European Union. To the Council's sluggish remark that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has picked up some reputation somewhere from: We, representatives who come here and attend meetings, have been told by the Council of State, Tine Sundtoft, that this is what we can expect from the negotiations with the EU. So this is the Council of State and Government's information to the Grand Council, and that the Council of State doesn't get that kind of information to do, gets it to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4447	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time and that those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Sverre Myrli, who is now acting as rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4456	E18 is a repetition in this hall. If the term ‘policy rematch’ is to be able to give some meaning, it must be when we talk about the E18 development. The Committee shares the impatience of the rapporteurs in the follow-up to the climate agreement. The last debate showed that. The majority of the population are very concerned that, in order to reduce climate emissions, we need to take action in the transport sector. Then we're probably in disagreement about the means and timing, as we just heard, but basically there's no doubt that we have to do something in the transport sector. E18 in the West Corridor has been treated several times and is part of Oslopackak 3. The E18 development and other projects in Oslopackakt 3 have the support of a broad political majority, both in the municipality of Oslo and in the municipality of Akershus. The Oslo Package 3 and the objectives adopted by the Stortinget state that future growth in passenger traffic in the Oslo area is to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. This must lead transport policy in the years to come. Therefore, a strong expansion of collective provision in the Oslo area needs to be envisaged, and strong efforts need to be made to improve the use of bicycles. We know that Oslopackak 3 will be renegotiated in 2016. If we are to have at all something like Oslopackak 3 – that is the same rules that apply here, that apply to other packages – there must be local connection to the toll system. So we need to find agreement in Oslo and Akershus also at the next renegotiation of Oslopackak 3. Oslo and Akershus must, as they have done so far, agree on the projects to be included in the package. I am absolutely sure that Oslo and Akershus will also agree this time. There are, of course, slightly different emphasis on different projects in Oslo and Akershus, and there is no reason to hide that one from Oslo expresses concern about increased emissions from car traffic and increased pressure on the traffic image in Oslo Centre. There is no one who believes anything but that we are going to take the traffic challenges in Oslo seriously. There is no one who believes anything but that we should listen to what the Municipality of Oslo says. But we also need to find solutions to the traffic challenges in the West Corridor. So here we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We need to clean up traffic conditions in the West Corridor, and we need to find solutions to the traffic situation in Oslo. So ambitious is the Storting that we're saying that when the E18 is completed, the emissions from car traffic are going to be lower than they are today. I'm sure we'll do that. Firstly, we need to expand public transport, and it is not possible today in the case of bus traffic, to get some increase in E18, at least not very much, because the bus is in the same queue as car traffic does. It's all blown up. In addition, the E18 is a major environmental problem in the West Corridor. Many are concerned about the costs of E18. We should all be, and both the municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Akershus have said that the Vegvesen should do something and see if you can reduce the costs. No one wants to spend as much money as possible on the road. However, it is paradoxical that the E18 is also a project to clean up the local environment, cleaning up a traffic image that leads to car traffic passing through residential areas, for example. Should a clean up in the vicinity, it is desirable locally to build many tunnels. Building tunnels is more expensive than having the road today. So the better the road for the local environment in the Western corridor, the more expensive the project can be. In any case, there is a strong consensus that one should look at the costs of the E18 development, but we must therefore not doubt the project as such. New E18 is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4475	I thought I would inform you a little about Oslopackak 3 since Oslopackak 3 is very central, and about the results that have actually been achieved over the years Oslopackak 3 has been. We can say that Oslopackak 3 started about at the same time as Router was formed, and since there has been a huge growth in Oslo and Akershus. In the seven years, from 2007 to 2014, the population growth in Oslo and Akershus has been 14 p.m. So it's 151,000 people. There's 20,000 more than it lives in Stavanger – to put it that way – in seven years. As a result, the development of public transport in Akershus has increased by 47 pst. Public transport in Oslo has increased by 35 pst. Road traffic in Akershus has increased by 7 pst. – but there we have to remember that when road traffic increases, it is not only passenger traffic, it is also commercial traffic, and it will very often increase as the population does not have to go into the accounts – while road traffic in Oslo has grown by 1 pst. But traffic through the bombardment – including the electric cars – has fallen by 7 pst. in the seven years. So it's a result I think we can be very proud of: with a growth in the population of 151,000 new residents, we've managed to get car traffic through the bombing down 7 pst. Looking at the collective share in motorised traffic, Oslo has had an increase in the proportion of motorised traffic – not bicycles and corridors, but motorized public transport – from 37 to 44 p.m., and Akershus has had an increase from 14 to 21 p.m. If you look at the use of the funds in Oslopackak 3, you use 60 pst. for collective and 40 pst. on the road. It's part of the ‘deal’ that you've entered into with the other parties, and you follow that. In addition, it is worth mentioning two projects which are quite heavy, and which are part of Oslopackak 3. It's the E18 West Corridor, which we're talking about today, and the second is the Manglerud Tunnel, which is going to run E6 in the tunnel under Manglerud. The two projects were kind of pulled out of Oslopackak 3 in the case of the previous rolling. It was understood that these projects cost more than what you can have within such an urban package, among other things. due to the amortisation period. So today, what's going to go from Oslopackak 3 to E18, is limited to 6 billion. kr. The rest is to be taken in other ways and by other payment. In the next four years, 17 billion will be spent following the action plan. kr, excluding railway, according to the Oslopacket 3 action programme, and much continues to go to public transport and other. In the case of E18, it's worth noting that that project is a lot more complicated than just the six fields that are E18. The six fields shall be dug down, materially in tunnels. A long-distance bus route shall be built and a cycle path shall be built from Oslo to Asker. In addition, however, the cross-link between Gjønnes and Fornebu should be cleaned up, where collective fields should also be built, so that the collective share in Bærum will increase with the investments made. Asker has also gradually entered the project and agrees to go up the price. Finally, you can mention that VAT was increased from 9 to 25 pst. from 1 January 2013 and that in itself means a significant increase in costs that the project does not suffer, but is a purely zero-game for the State. We're so pleased with what's here. The right is on the notes that the municipality of Oslo and Akershu County have had. But I have to say that I hope that the next time we will have this matter in Stortinget, it is to get the project started. E18 is adapted to traffic into Oslo. It's much bigger when you get to Lysaker than what you have on the E18 today. They're building the capacity of the West Corridor, i.e. on E16. This is a bottleneck, and it has to be dissolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4496	We have just debated whether the climate targets for 2020 and 2030 will be the basis of the national transport plan. The issue we are now debating about the E18 in the West Corridor between Oslo and Asker is a brilliant example of what happens when climate objectives are not used for transport planning. Of course, all transport politicians can do so, but for the sake of order, I remember what the 2012 climate agreement says: ‘The growth of passenger transport that this population growth entails must be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors’. It may seem that both government and political leadership in Oslo and Akershus have had little effect on this decision taken in Stortinget. The climate agreement that added to the cut of 5 pst. In 2020, therefore, the increase in emissions in the transport sector is currently 30 p.m., while, as we have just talked about, we are facing a situation where 40 p.m. is likely to be needed at the initiative of the government. the transport sector in the next 15 years, i.e. a whole new transport reality. The planning of the E18 West Corridor continues with a price tag of 40 billion. kr and a 50 pst Vegetation estimate. increased traffic to Oslo. So it's in a situation where we've decided that the increase in traffic should not happen to cars. We must now be able to start thinking new, and we must take on board that completed planned projects that do not comply with overall climate objectives must actually be reconsidered. Greenhouse gas emissions from road transport must be drastically reduced. The current plans for the E18 will make it very difficult for Oslo and neighbouring municipalities to achieve their share of the agreed climate objectives and the climate targets that come. Secondly, if the cities and towns of the future are to actually give us better quality of life, pedestrians, cyclists and public transport have to get back the place that cars take today. There are no questions about both, there are questions about giving the place to people and public transport, and there are questions about taking it from cars. In the setting later it seems that the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre – I am not quite aware of where the Left stands – act as if the E18 development does not affect the progress of other collective transport projects in the Oslo area, i.e. that none of the billions that the E18 will cost the State and the road users can instead be used to build the T-Bahn tunnel, the Fornebuban, the Ahus Railway, the railway tunnel below the centre, etc. It's important now to realize that Ole Brumm is not a good leader in the policy of culture. We have to choose, and we have to choose what the climate agreement for the longest time has decided: public transport, corridors and bicycles at the expense of a car. Therefore, the Greens today are promoting proposals to stop the further planning of a capacity-enhancing E18 in the West Corridor. If the goal is a good living environment in Oslo and Akershus and a better effort for Earth's climate, it's not a good idea to pump tens of thousands of extra cars into capital traffic every day. Although several of them will be low-emission cars, they will continue to take the same amount of space from other road users. The Greens support the proposals from the SV and the Left that have been promoted in the vote. It should be obvious that major transport projects in the Oslo area, where large parts of the costs are to be financed by the State, are in line with the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4517	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4520	I will first refer to the proposal for a representative, which has been commendably promoted by representatives Eidsvoll Holmås and Solhjell, and discusses the principle of the deployment of the E18 West Corridor. This is a matter that the Left is also concerned about, and we are recording a large local involvement in the matter, of course. We are doing the green shift, and Norway is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We must therefore take this into account in all projects planned and built in the future, and in particular in transport projects. This is a sector that contributes significantly to Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. New transport projects therefore need to be organised in such a way that they become good, alternative and attractive ways of moving, which are more climate friendly than the use of fossil energy sources. The cost of developing the E18 West Corridor is very high. We want further work to be done on the project to make adjustments to ensure that costs are significantly reduced. The west corridor is built in such a way as to ensure a better collective service for buses than it is today, and there must be a consistently high standard of cycle path throughout the route. Then there will be good alternatives for the use of a car on the route. On large roads, the Left believes that there is an advantage to an environmental field that may be reserved for electric cars, interconnectors, etc., and it should also be established on the E18. I noticed that the representative Rasmus Hansson from MDG was concerned about whether the work with E18 etc. may distort other projects and refer to the comment with which a majority has joined, including the Left, but here is also the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party. In this context, this majority would stress that ‘the financing of the E18 West Corridor should not be at the expense of State contributions to collective actions in the region, such as new T-Bahn tunnel, Fornebubanen and Ahusbanen’. It's very positive that the Storting determines this in such a majority comment. I also refer to the three proposals that the Left is promoting today. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the new E18 West Corridor is in line with the climate agreement.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow the recommendation of the Oslo City Council and to investigate taking one of today’s fields on the E18 westwards and to convert it into an environmental field for electric cars, comrade driving and, where appropriate, other groups.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up environmental fields for public transport, electric car and companion driving on several of the state’s roads around Oslo, with the aim of favouring these groups in drug traffic.’ With this I address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4549	Representative Abid Q. Raja has put forward the proposals he referred to. The regulatory time for the evening meeting has now come to an end and the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4556	As the representative Igstad was in, this is a matter that will certainly come to Stortinget many times. It is because it is a very difficult road project that has a huge impact on the citizens of Oslo, who live with harmful air as of today, and who will be able to live with more harmful air if this road project is implemented, as is currently the case. In addition, it is an expensive project that implies that we are all obliged to take up the debate on how we use society's resources best. And it's a project that I wholeheartedly believe is planned in violation of several of the Storting's leaders. That is why we have raised this matter, because we believe it is important to establish to the Council of State that he, as the owner of the State Road Service, has a separate responsibility to ensure that the large projects that are now under investigation around many of our cities are in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinget. One of them was read by the representative Rasmus Hansson here instead, namely the goal that all growth in passenger traffic into the big cities should be taken by collective transport, corridors and bicycles. I then put a big question mark on today's E18 project planned by the State Road Administration, which is in line with that objective. I don't think so. All the trade unions in Oslo who delivered an opinion on the regulatory plan submitted by the neighbouring municipality in the west – i.e. Bærum – on how this project was related to all the plans that Oslo itself has adopted was clear that with this project as it stands, when we do not achieve the objectives we have for air quality, we do not achieve the objectives of tightness that we have, we do not achieve the objectives of cutting climate emissions by 50 p.m. and become a climate city, as we've added. We as big ones are not going to interfere with what Oslo and Akershus mean at this stage. But what we're going to get involved in is that the planning capacity of the state is used in line with what is the government's adopted policy. The government's adopted policy is not to build roads. There shall be no traffic growth with cars entering Oslo. The traffic growth shall be taken with public transport, corridors and bicycles. From the analyses of the Transport Economics Institute of the road project as available, we see that this could lead to an increase in emissions. This will lead to an estimated 35 pst increase in road capacity. Some of us think it's going to be higher than that, because we see that already today the capacity of the E18 is exploited more than what is really theoretically possible for the road. At Ring 3, which is currently closed, it is estimated that the growth in passenger car traffic will be 50 pst., precisely for the reason that I myself pulled out. There's much bigger capacity in Oslo than it is up to this Lysaker bottleneck. But Stortinget has decided that we will not use this extra capacity into Oslo. We don't want to take advantage of it for more cars. We only want to use it to increase by means of public transport, bicycles and corridors. That's what Stortinget has voted for. We've established that. Everyone here agrees. But then we have to follow it up in practice, and that is why we have promoted this proposal, which has now been re-examined by the Left. I have to admit that I am surprised that there is no greater dissatisfaction, that it turns out that the Stortinget may not intend to follow up its own adopted plans, that the government parties may not intend to follow up what the Storinget has decided on about the climate agreement – where, therefore, the Minister of the Environment, the Prime Minister and others constantly state that they will strengthen the climate agreement. Here it is not certain that we will even follow up on what has already been adopted. I am also surprised that the Workers' Party will not follow it up after the clear signals that have come from Raymond Johansen in this matter. One more thing: The right-wing city council has gone in to investigate environmental issues into Oslo. This is what several of us have said: When there is a queue, the buses wear out in the queue. No matter how we view it, we have to restock the E18 in a way that ensures better emergence of public transport. We propose that this be done by already ensuring our own environment with more peer-trafficking. Then we get capacity for many more people in fewer private cars. I wholeheartedly support the proposals promoted by the Greens and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4571	It's not the first time this topic is discussed in this magnification period. It has been voted down once before, and this is simply an attempt to repel things that the Storting has previously decided. So a well mislike or similar to what's adopted, but that's now the starting point. There's a whole in the way that you think about politics when you think about transportation. There's a whole way of thinking about climate policy. Unfortunately, here one and one road bill turns into a climate issue in itself. The development under the municipal sub-plan for this section meets the objectives of improved accessibility, reduced travel time and reducing local environmental challenges. There is a separate bus route throughout the route, and the further development of Lysaker makes it a more compact collective hub where buses in both directions can stop right at today's railway station for easy roundabout. There is also good coordination with Fornebubanen – it creates its own bus route and cycle path here. Much of the transport capacity resulting from this project is not about private cars – it is about all the other instruments that will enable people to travel more collectively, which will enable people to go and ride more, simply by facilitating it. I have noticed that the environmental movement in some debates claims that this is going to be a fourteen-field highway. That's not right. It's not right in any way. But if one in the whole belt from the sea and up to the mountain -- I should say -- counts the number of roads, then one can talk about 14 fields, because there should be separate bus files, there should be local access routes and such things, but the highway should still be three plus three fields. That's what's going on. And that's what I think we're going to include in this. In the project to which it is added, a heavily loaded secondary road network must therefore be unloaded. There will be better couplings, including: against E16 Fornebu–Beckestua and for buses between Lysaker and Fornebu. Many of the tools we talk about when it comes to achieving climate targets are about getting more people on the bus. Bus is the collective travel agent that most people use, which has the most flexibility, which comes closest to where people live, on the current infrastructure today. And we know that there are existing queues on these very long road sections, which are very expensive to society, and it is possible to relieve them and at the same time ensure that one gets even better collective services, which means that more people – when they can sit on buses, trains, T-Bahn and trams in the future – are connected to the network. One can work and use the time wisely, so that sitting in a car seems to be quite pointless. It has to be possible to have those visions and see that people will actually value their time more as they get more and more time scarcity. The development of the E18 West Corridor brings benefits to industrial traffic, public transport, bicycle traffic, the surrounding environment and urban development. Work is now under way on a KVU for the Oslo area, which will show how the traffic system in the Oslo region needs to be developed in order for growth in passenger transport to take place through public transport, bicycles and corridors. This KVU will be an important basis for the work we are going to do. We cooperate with local authorities. I note that local politicians in this region, imposed by the reward agreement, nevertheless believe that this is part of the good transport solution in the region. Then I register that some people want repeated rematches on it, but the national transport plan is clear on that, local decisions are clear on that, and that's what I'm working with as a government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4592	Will the Council of State agree that funding for E18 will be part of the Oslopacket 3 portfolio when we get it to Stortinget after that case has been negotiated between Oslo and Akershus, if this clearly violates Stortinget's assumption that all growth in passenger traffic into the largest cities – i.e. into Oslo – is to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4597	I assume that the leaders from Stortinget are also followed up when one does this planning work. As far as I have noticed in my dialogue with the Road Administration, the Railway Agency, local politicians and others working on this, they are fully aware of the objectives they want to achieve. That's why I don't think this is going to be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4602	It's nice that the Council of State thinks there won't be a point, but I have no reason to believe that the road planners are currently planning on the conditions from the Storting, for the sake of their eyes. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State will make an independent assessment when this comes. I assume that the Council of State is doing that. He has resigned from Stortinget to follow-up Stortinget's job. When the Storting has set a target for all growth in passenger traffic to come through public transport, bicycles and corridors, will the Council of State clearly say no to the E18 if that project is not in line with those leaders from the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4607	We've been in many discussions during this day on this topic in different ways. I have repeatedly pointed out how this government and today's majority have invested more on the railways than the previous government has provided. We spend more on bus and public transport than the previous government provided. I have told our agencies that we are going to have a climate strategy that is visionary and that is forward-looking about how to transform the transport system in order to reduce emissions. One is concerned about CO2 emissions. Yes, then it's about developing technologies. We know that local politicians are committed to complying with their agreements. There is a reward scheme with measures that they have to pay in order to get funds. All the actors around the table are interested in achieving the same thing. Taking all the sorrows in advance over and over again seems to me quite unnecessary. I take it for granted that in the planning work and the adjustments that are taking place, this will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4615	I am very pleased that the Council of State takes for granted that the underlying offices take care of the leaders that the Stortinget has laid down, and I just notice it and take it with me. But it would have been all right for the Council of State on the third line to answer my question: Will the Council of State ensure that the decision of the Stortinge – which is not about CO2 emissions of gases, but a concrete objective that all passenger traffic growth into the big cities, in this context Oslo, will be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors – will be subject to assessment by the Council of State, and that the Council of State clearly announces that he will say no to this if it is not in line with these leaders of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4623	We're working on this based on those leaders. I can't see that it's so hard to take over. At the same time, I suggest that we try to reduce the queue on the roads as much as possible. I suggest that we get the best possible public transport – for example. that we have been overcome by the challenge that Telenor, the NSB and the Railway Agency have been frustrated for 10 to 15 years, namely that one cannot coordinate the development of a better telecommunications network along trains and collective axes, which does not allow one to exploit the digitisation of society while sitting on board these collective means of travel. We're going to make sure that we get it. It's going to be part of the job we're doing. You can trust that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4630	I agree with the representative Igstad’s statement – let’s hope that the next time we get the E18 case processed, it is to adopt the project as such. We have discussed the E18 many times, and in the past I have asked the Council of State about the progress of the matter from the Department and the State. The council then replied, understandably, that he had to come back to that. My question is: can the Minister for Transport now say something more about the progress made by the state? There is, of course, a somewhat complicated governance structure here, with Oslo Municipality, Akershu County and local and national priorities. But at the end of the day, the Storting must adopt the project. So the question is, is it now more clear about what the time horizon for E18 expansion is? When can we imagine a matter for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4637	There is a lot of different investigative work going on in this area. Among other things, there is a steering group that has commissioned an investigation into the use of interconnection fields and so on, which will be part of the decision base. I think we can say that this is an important matter in the work on new or renewed Oslopackak, and it is working on it without I can say more about precise dates and months for when different decisions will be made. When you look at the debate in Oslo, for example, where the representative Myrlis now does his best to avoid building this road, you see how complicated this is. The Working Party in Stortinget is fighting for it, while the Workers' Party is now fighting against it locally. There are quite a number of people here who really need to stick our legs to make a good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4646	I guess I don't quite share the reality, but I'm going to write it in the Minister of Transport's account after a tired and long day that's about to go into the night. As I see Oslo, and to the extent that many parties in Oslo, one is concerned about traffic growth in the Oslo Centre. It's a concern we all share. It is clear that no one wants to pump a lot of car traffic into the Oslo Centre. But that's not the situation here. We need to find solutions both to traffic problems in Oslo and to traffic problems in the West Corridor. I'm sure they'll be fine, the state, Oslo and Akershus together. My question is a continuation from instead. The road service is working on the E18 extension and has launched various calculations for tolls. The Oslopacket 3 contribution has been established, so the remainder is to be financed by tolls and government contributions. The road system has presented a little different calculations, and my question is, is there any signals from the ministry and the state about what percentage will be the state's contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4655	We have not yet received the case, so we have not given any concrete assessments of it either. There are some leads in the national transport plan, and that is often what you are doing locally. So this government has the goal of reducing the toll burden. We have implemented this in a number of projects. Through the interest-rate compensation scheme for road reform, there will be a further reduction in the rate of excise duty. Unfortunately, I see the Labour Party is negative to that. I think that's sad. I can assure the representative that my head is well in place. I have followed both in what has happened in the debate today, and not least in what has been in various media for months to come today. There is no doubt that local candidate Raymond Johansen has been quite clear in some media plays, not least in the Newspaper, that the E18, the West Corridor, is considered a somewhat wasted project in his eyes. It's nice if the representative Myrli hasn't brought it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4666	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4672	Hearing the SV in the debate on E18 is like hearing Elisabeth Granneman about again and again. There's nothing new under the sun. The logical consequence of SV's reasoning would have been that one should not build a road, because every new road generates new traffic. In fact, the E18 is dimensioned for the 1970s traffic. The capacity has been detonated – something has to be done. Population growth in this area is estimated to be 350,000 people over the course of 25 years. 55 pst. the growth of traffic generated by population growth must be taken in the case of collective transport, and in this case public transport is bus. The delay costs are foreshadowable on the E18. 2 billion. kr annually they are calculated for. Cow, cork and chaos are everyday at E18. The last report from the State Road Administration shows that the extra traffic into Oslo, which will generate the new E18, will be 3 pst. There will be a complete absence of justice if they're $1.7 billion. kr which has now been dragged through the additional toll stations set up on E18 shall not go to E18. Where is the performance/reperformance ratio? It is still the case in this country that the primary responsibility for expanding public transport lies in fact with the State. If E18 is to become a dairy cow for the development of public transport, it has been seriously underestimated and seriously exploited by road users. One can wonder if the technology change that has taken place in the car industry has passed SV Hus. Something has happened: the car park has become much, much more environmentally friendly. Finally, I fell so far to a certain calm after the representative Myrlis said. But the representative Myrli and the Workers' Party have a loose cannon on deck, and his name is Raymond Johansen. His consideration of Oslopackak 3 is absent. Oslopackak 3 is a shaky political settlement, which can quickly go up in the glue, if the biggest party in Oslo starts to mess with it. Oslopackak 3 is the key to building the E18 and solving the traffic challenges in the Oslo area. Without Oslopackakt 3 – no new E18. Without a new E18 – no Oslopackak 3. Then the development of transport in the capital area is stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4685	Two things: one is that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås says that now you have to take into account that all the growth in traffic needs is to be taken through public transport and corridors, and not by car. And then I'm going to show you the numbers from Oslopackack 3, which relates to the period that we have behind us. There's been the growth of the population at 14 pst. or 151 000 inhabitants in seven years. During that period, traffic through the bombing process has decreased by 7 pst. Then I call it over-fulfilling the goal of taking all traffic growth through public transport, bicycles and corridors. In the same period, the growth in public transport has been 47 pst. in Akershus and 35 pst in Oslo. That's actually what I call Oslopak 3 fulfilling the main objective of the climate agreement, as it is organised, and as Oslo and Akershus have taken care of it. Something else is wrong to say. The other thing I want to say is, it's not like if you don't build E18, you get the other elements of the project. The road project shall contribute to the financing of the cycle path, the bus route, the cross-roads and the collective fields of Bærum and Asker. This cannot be imposed on the drivers if it is not a new road, and you cannot impose on the inhabitants of Asker and Bærum the pollution that is on the way today. They actually have the right to get a road in the tunnel. It can't be that it's just Oslo that's going to make city renewal. In fact, there are also areas in Bærum and Asker that are suitable for urban renewal, and that can make sure that a person gets a concentrated population around the nodes that are there. It's a misunderstanding, I have the feeling of. There's someone in Oslo City that thinks that if we don't build the road, they can get 40 billion. kr is used for T-Bahn and tram in Oslo. It's not like that. If they're $40 billion. kr is not used, nor is there any money for public transport. It's not a threat. That's just the consequence that if the money is to be drawn from the drivers, a new road must necessarily be built. This is finally a road project in Akershus, a state road in Akershus. Oslo is a hearing body. We've funded all the ways Oslo needs by being a loyal partner. Now we demand that our projects too be realised, and they will be climate friendly. In the exact same way that we've achieved it before, we're going to achieve it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4692	As the leader of Oslo Left, I had in my time the joy of taking part in the Oslopacket 3 initiative, and as the representative of Nils Aage Igstad, I have been sitting and negotiating, discussing and working with Oslopacket 3 from 2001 to 2002 as a whole. And Oslopackak 3 is, as pointed out, a huge success. You can build a bet on public transport that wouldn't have been possible without Oslopackak 3. In Oslo you'll soon be up in 80 pst. share of toll revenue for public transport. We also know the political balance that Oslopack 3 has been in, throughout this whole period that we've discussed it. In the case of E18 westward, I think it's time to step out of the general rhetoric and go into the details, because we're going to take seriously the statements from the Municipality of Oslo, and, to some extent, from Akershus, that you're worried about the costs. But then it's the cost of the entire stretch it's about. What's the first project we're going to decide on, and what's going to be done, is Lysaker-Ramstadsletta. And when you're going to go in and see if this is possible with cost reductions, it's essential that the slimming that happens, if any, doesn't go at the expense of the collective actions that are in the project. It concerns the collective field and the cross-links, as far as the bus path is concerned, and not least the bicycle path lying there. But I think it is absolutely essential to now – together with Oslo and Akershus – go into the reality of the project and look at what opportunities are there, instead of this overall rhetoric. Then it is clear that this expansion, like other expansions, has been able – as has been said here – to take away the growth of Oslo with public transport, bicycles and times over many years, despite the fact that the city has had a great growth. This must continue even when you have enlargements in the future. So that the E18 must also be seen in the context of the climate objectives we have is, of course, for the Left. When priorities are to be met — there is a provision for the E18 in Oslopackak 3. And it's quite true, as I'm saying, the money that comes from the bomb cuts that are going to be used on the E18, can't be spent on anything else. It's not that if you just move these, they can be used in public transport. It is the project itself that needs to be assessed whether it is correct, and whether it is properly designed and dimensioned, both for public transport to go in and out, and for having a functional road in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4703	It's sometimes I wonder if you've learned, when I listen to representatives from the Progress Party and the Right. Have you learned from history? It was Haarek Riveres who said he felt that my and SV's posts in this case were as if and about. To that it is to replicate that I think that telling and talking about a bad project often doesn't make the project a better project. As of today, I cannot see that what is planned in the Western corridor is a good project, if we measure it according to present-day standards for what we want to achieve in terms of both particulate matter and greenhouse gas emissions – at all how we want to use society's money properly. About that and about – we feel that one might as well have said the same thing about the Right People, who shouted: We need more frigates. They said, "We need more frigates, we need more frigates." Now two of the frigates are laid down as part boats – the world’s most expensive part boats – to dock and are not in use, even though politicians thought this was a very good project. But it wasn't a good project, it wasn't a good project. We see the consequences of that today, and we've thrown away 12 billion. kr. Similarly, there is reason to ask the question: Is there no one who sees what's happening west of the city? Does not one follow the news on television and in the evening post, which writes about how people adapt? When you get an incision in the amount, people adapt. When we blocked one field in the Fortress Tunnel to connect in the Opera Tunnel, people adapted. There was less queue there the next day. One of three fields was removed. It became less queue. The same thing will happen now – because of Henry Ford’s basic statement, which still applies: Building a road, there will be more cars. If you build one more car, there will be several roads. That's where we have to stop. We have to say, no, it can't be that just because a lot of people have a lot of cars, we have to build more roads. Instead, we have to do what is necessary. What I think is necessary for the E18 project is that we do exactly what Ola Elvestuen says: we go in and look at the project. Then we have to take care of what are important qualities for environmental improvement – what is about ensuring that we provide more public transport, more cycling. But we can't say yes to an increase in capacity, because we don't have room for that in this city. It is for the sake of children and for the sake of the future. Finally, I just have to say that in June, the investigation is coming that points to what Akershus residents will get. There is a proposal for a new railway tunnel, a new T-Bahn tunnel under Oslo and possibly a proposal for a new S-Bahn. It's gold for Akershus residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4727	The E18 has three sources of funding. That's what's set out in Oslopackak 3, that's toll financing – what the technical language calls "the average to finance E18", i.e. a separate toll scheme for E18 – and that's government contributions. When I hear some talk about someone like you can just take 40 billion. kr and move them to some other transport project, it is simply not possible and shows little understanding of how the transport projects in the metropolitan region are planned, financed and organised. It is not possible to use the 5-6 billion. kr that Oslo and Akershus in Oslopackak 3 have agreed to go to E18, to something else. They're set to E18. Of course, it is not possible to use the money collected on the E18 – to go to the E18 – for other projects. It would probably be contrary to the law to take money on the E18 and use it for something else. Of course, it is theoretically possible to use the country's share, which should be purely state-owned in the E18 development, for something else. However, it is a small part of the overall cost picture and much less than the money that I have seen some suggested should be spent on other transport investments – they also needed and demanded. So it's working on getting a so-called "co-operation field" on the E18. The Oslopacket 3 Steering Group has initiated an investigation into this, which will be completed during the year. If it turns out to be reasonable, I wouldn't believe that a human being is opposed to the creation of such a collaborative field. SV is against new E18. The Greens are against new E18. It's okay. The left and the other two are for the new E18. Then we agree that we should look at the costs – no one wants the road as much as possible. Oslo Municipality and Akershu County Municipality have said this: See if we can bring down the costs. Then there is a large majority for – perhaps consensus, even – that we should do something to bring down the emissions from car traffic. It has been said that we should take Oslo seriously. We will, and we will take Akershus seriously. I repeat: we need to find solutions to traffic problems both in Oslo and in Akershus. Then I would like to say briefly that the proposals from the Left are of such a nature that it is difficult for us to support them. For example, proposal No. 2 that one should convert one of the current fields into ‘electric vehicle environment, comrade driving and, where appropriate, other groups’. I have to say it is very strange if the Storting will decide that «other groups» will use a road. What in the world is that now? That is simply the way the proposals to the left are formulated, which makes it difficult for us to support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4742	This is more of a line than an article. The problem with SV is that the models to which they refer are not the official calculation models used by Vegvesen to calculate the socio-economic benefits of a project. The E18 is one of the most disparately profitable transport projects in the UK. The calculation model with which SV operates is unknown to anyone other than SV. So SV rhetorically says in the debate – if not here, then at least in the public domain – that this is going to cost 40 billion. kr. The government’s expenditure in this respect is estimated at 11–12 billion. kr. So you can see this over 30 years, and then you have an investment cost of approximately. 500 million. kr per year. We know that the delay costs per year are estimated at 2 billion. kr. So, with such a simple calculation, it can be seen that the annual socio-economic profitability of this project exceeds the investment cost several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4751	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4754	Just cards to the Workers' Party: I'm not against the new E18, I'm against today's plans for the new E18. I'm in favour of improvements, for local environmental measures, depending on our being cleared up in collective fields. That's the most important thing to do, but we don't have to spend 40 billion. kr to ensure good collective and good cycling out on E18. So to the attack of the representative Rivers from the Right: in terms of the analyses we relate to in this context, there are two things to say. One is that the analyses we're dealing with are TØI's analyses of this. That's something they've figured out on a mission from the State Road Administration. They estimate an increase in traffic of 50 pst. on Rings 3 - 50 pst. growth in traffic on Ring 3 – and I'm just saying it: it's only completely inappropriate if we're going to achieve the goals the government's parties and the City Council have set to ensure the air quality of its citizens. Finally, this proves the point I had against the Minister of Transport earlier. To give priority to the socio-economic profitable projects, climate and everything else are quickly blurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e4763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox We are now dealing with cases No. 11–39 in total. All cases relate to the second processing of legal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e5062	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e5068	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1, 2 and 3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e5076	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Irene Johansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make changes to the country-by-country reporting regulation that can make unwanted tax adjustment visible, including proposals for extended country-by-country reporting that ensure a stronger link between country-by-country reporting and annual accounts.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6183	It's going to add up to A, B, and E. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6198	It is then vottered over I, Roman I, and K, II. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6212	The remainder of I and K, as well as C, D, F, G, H, J, L and M.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6222	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6232	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6240	During the debate, Ola Elvestuen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. During the first examination of the case, proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, tabled as a request. The present note changes this to a proposal in the form of a law. The proposal then reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under I, the following provision is assumed to be amended as follows: point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 8 shall be replaced by the following: (b) a hydropower plant that had started after 1 January 2004, or’;» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6269	Consequently, the amendment to Law No 94 has been adopted. The legislative decision is then, together with the adopted remark, set up for the third time – it is not so often – in a later meeting in Stortinget, more concretely on 18 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6277	During the debate, the representative Stefan Heggelund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour and Social Committee. During the initial treatment, the first and third sentence of Section 15-5, second paragraph, was not included in the proceedings. The legislative note that is now being proposed will correct this. The president pointed out that the bill came from an overall committee and that voting would thus be expected to be unanimous. The proposal will then read as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under I, the following provisions are assumed to be amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 15-5 is replaced by the following: Social benefits may be granted to a single mother or father who has children under eight years of age. For a member who is prevented from working because of care for children requiring special supervision, transitional aid may be granted until the child reaches the age of 18. Exemptions from the age limit in the first sentence may be made for extensions under the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 15-8, the fourth paragraph and the fifth subparagraph.’ The proposal replaces the second paragraph of Section 15-5 of Legislative Decision 103 for 2014-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6306	The legislative decision, together with the adopted statement, is set up for the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. It's also June 18th. That concludes voting, and we will move on to the Stortinge agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6315	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. The following proposals are available: the proposals No 1-12, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 13–15, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–15, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of individualising requirements for farmed salmon as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to establish an investment grant for breeders who will move to closed installations or technologies with equivalent environmental standards.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government requests to include escape and disappearance indicators for the management at concession level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6350	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks it to develop sustainability requirements with indicators at production area and concession level for lice, emissions, escape, disappearance, drug use, animal health and other impacts on the marine environment.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size does not require the government to open up growth in the farming industry until the farming industry meets such sustainability criteria.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for stricter penalties against installations with environmental pollution and infringements.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on chitin inhibitors and for phase-out of hydrogen peroxide.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to take the initiative of a R & D programme where the objective is significantly higher public and private R & D efforts to develop the industry in a sustainable way.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a knowledge acquisition on the effects of farming on the marine environment and other coastal industries.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to the Storting a land tax for the farming industry or a conversion of the current property tax system so that the property tax base is based on the real values generated in the more.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for traceability requirements for farmed fish to individual plants.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for fat-finding of current farmed fish to be readily distinguishable from wild fish.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reduce the permitted biomass in congested and vulnerable areas and to move the concessions to other more suitable sites.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to prohibit salmon farming in national salmon fjords.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate an international agreement between the largest farming nations in order to regulate minimum standards, as well as to strengthen and safeguard the rights of workers, indigenous peoples and local people.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6448	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will vote against V. The voting boards showed that 97 votes were cast and 3 votes against the Committee's vote against the V. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.48.39]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6457	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6462	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6473	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I to IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6498	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to allow fishermen from Måsøy to participate to a limited extent in commercial fishing.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6542	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that new state-owned road projects are built with State guarantees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6570	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asked for an integrated model for the organisation of the railways in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the strengthening and further development of NSB AS as a modern transport company owned by the State.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The transaction wants to keep Flytoget AS in its possession. The government is not authorised to sell shares of the company.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6612	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By 1 July 2015, the government is asked to set preliminary targets for climate change emissions from the transport sector in 2030, which will serve as the basis for the joint work of the modes of transport on a new national transport plan.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6634	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6662	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. The following proposals are available: proposal No 1-3, by Mr Q. Raja, on behalf of Left-wing proposal No. 4, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the government to stop further planning of the capacity increase on the E18 in the west corridor.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6687	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the new E18 West Corridor is in line with the climate agreement.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow the recommendation of the Oslo City Council and to investigate taking one of today’s fields on the E18 westwards and to convert it into an environmental field for electric cars, comrade driving and, where appropriate, other groups.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6710	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up environmental fields for public transport, electric car and companion driving on several of the state’s roads around Oslo, with the aim of favouring these groups in drug traffic.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6738	Case No. 11–39 concerns the second processing of laws and applies to legislative acts 79 to 93, to Acts 95 to 102 and to Acts 104 to 109. There is no proposal to comment on any of the cases, and the Bill of the Storting has therefore been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-15.ana.ud2166e6852	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
