ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e26	Representatives Abid Q. Raja, Per Rune Henriksen, Jette F. Christensen, Kenneth Svendsen and Hege Haukeland Liadal, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, Frank J. Jensen and Erling Wiborg, who have been licensed, have again taken up seats. The called alternates, for Oslo Frode Helgerud, and for Rogaland County Kari Raustein, have taken their seats. The representatives Jan Arild Ellingsen and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland have received applications for leave from 3 November to 5 November, both to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Doha, Qatar. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet under the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen's leave due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the county of Nordland: Greta Johanne SolfallFor the province of South-Trøndelag: Torhild Aarbergsbotten
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e88	Greta Johanne Solfall and Torhild Aarbergsbotten are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e96	The representative, Mr Sigbjørn Tuskedal, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e99	On behalf of the great-grandparent representatives of Oluk V. Bollestad, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to improve the care situation of lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e104	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e116	‘Europe has never been more prosperous, more secure, more free’. These are the opening words of the EU’s foreign policy strategy, adopted in 2003. ‘More interconnected, more contentious and more complex’. The last decade has given good reasons for this change in tone. The 2003 strategy did not conceal the threats to the European idyll: terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, coup d'état and organised crime. But few thought that these threats would have as concrete consequences for Europe as they have actually had, and were convinced that Europe would have to use more force on its own financial crisis than on crises outside Europe. Europe’s main foreign policy challenge was and is to contribute to security in Europe’s neighbourhood. But when the upheavals came into the Arab world, many European countries were in economic crisis. When Russian aggression changed borders in the EU’s neighbourhood, major weaknesses appeared in the EU’s neighbourhood policy. When the refugee crisis is becoming a reality in Europe, we see political signs of crisis within EU cooperation. The crises are demanding separately. In addition, they are woven together in ways that make the situation even more difficult. The consequences of Russian power use both in Ukraine and Syria are encroaching on a European political landscape where extreme parties say no to Ukraine’s desire for Europeanisation, while at the same time being nurtured by resistance to refugees. The key role of Turkey in the Middle East as well as in the migration crisis is reflected in sensitive debates on where and how the European integration process should proceed. EU responses to crises often become more common policies, but in turn they can create greater disagreements between EU countries and greater polarisation within EU countries. European cooperation has hardly been more difficult over the lifetime of the EU. However, the need for European cooperation has hardly been greater. In the face of these difficulties, Europe continues to have low growth, high unemployment and an ageing population. Several countries are struggling with structural problems. At the same time, other parts of the world have strong economic prosperity. But we see some positive trends. Growth is increasing slightly, and structural problems are being addressed by several countries. It is also a strength that the people of Europe are well educated. The challenges faced by an ageing population by several European countries can be mitigated by immigration and migration, provided that those who come are well integrated and able to take part in the labour market. Norway is well-balanced with the rest of Europe, but we are facing the same threats and challenges from Europe's neighbourhood. We also share the interest of economic progress in the EU. Globalisation and digitisation make us more dependent on – and more vulnerable – what is happening in the world around us. Norwegian economy and jobs depend on developments in the world economy and on developments in the EU, which is our main trading partner. The negotiations on new EEA funds and access to the market for fish are examples of mutual interests between Norway and the EU. These negotiations were concluded in the summer, and agreements covering the period until 30 April 2021 were initialled. It was important for the fishing industry that we set up a good agreement for market access for fish. We are pleased that the agreement gives us new duty-free quotas for fillet and processed products such as frozen mackerel and fresh herring. There is room for increased processing in Norway. The current quota for spice and vinegar is increased by 50 pst. A contractual period of seven years increases the predictability of the fishing industry. The agreement on EEA funds requires Norway to contribute an annual amount of 388 million. euro. This is an annual increase of approx. 11 pst. in relation to the previous programming period, and the increase is roughly equivalent to inflation in the EU. I expect the agreement to be signed early in 2016 when the EU's internal clearing processes are completed. After signature, the government intends to make a proposition for the Storting. We want to use EEA funds strategically and targeted in the next period. We've chosen five main sectors. Three of them will be given special strategic priority: innovation, research, education and competitiveness environment, energy, climate and low-carbon economy justice and home affairs, including refugee and migration measures; In addition, social inclusion, youth employment and poverty reduction culture, civil society, good governance, fundamental rights and freedoms We will continue to contribute to strengthening minority rights and positions in politics and society, not least in Roma. We will continue efforts to strengthen civil society in the recipient countries. New negotiations on trade in agricultural products, known as Article 19 negotiations, were launched on 3 February this year. The second negotiating meeting took place on 23 September. Both the EU and Norway have presented their requirements lists as a basis for further negotiations. As expected, the EU Commission made significant demands on Norway. Before the next round of negotiations, the government will carefully assess EU requirements and set Norwegian priorities for further negotiations. No date has been agreed for a new negotiating meeting. The government will keep the bodies of the Storting informed about the further negotiation process. Participation in EU financial supervision in the banking, insurance and securities fields is important for Norway and Norwegian business. The objective of the EEA Agreement is uniform legislation in the internal market. The financial services market is an important part of the whole. We are in the final phase of our efforts to reach agreement with the Commission on the legal texts based on the principles of the political consensus previously set out in the Storting. It has proved time-consuming to put in place the concrete technical adaptations to EU legislation necessary for inclusion in the EEA Agreement. It now appears realistic to have informal agreement with the Commission during the autumn on the EEA Committee decisions on a package of the four main legal acts establishing the EU financial supervision, as well as some key related acts. The Memorandum of Understanding will be promoted to the Storting before decisions are taken in the EEA Committee. Our aim is to send the consent proposal for this package to Stortinget, so that the matter can be dealt with in the spring session. The package will cover the legal acts which require a majority of the consent of the Storting pursuant to the Constitution § 115. The aim is also that the necessary legislative changes may be adopted during the spring session and enter into force on 1 July 2016. We will work in parallel to integrate the remaining financial services legislation into 2016. In order to provide Norwegian enterprises and jobs with the same rules of play as EU countries, integrating and implementing EEA legislation is important. The scope of EU legislation not incorporated into the EEA Agreement has increased, inter alia: because it takes time to get a good financial supervision solution in port. We work hard to get it down, but we also rely on the EU side and EFTA partners to achieve time integration. The slowdown to Norway alone concerns the national implementation of legislation contained in the EEA Agreement. This delay is supervised by ESA. In the recent ESA scoreboard, Norway has a lag of 0 p.p., i.e. no outstanding legal acts. This is the first time in the life of the EEA Agreement. This is good for Norwegian businesses and jobs. The free movement of labour from the EEA territory has helped to meet the needs of labour in Norway. Immigrants who work and pay taxes in Norway are also entitled to sickness and unemployment benefits. Increased labour migration has therefore led to growth in the export of Norwegian social security benefits. In the light of discussions in several European countries, the Commission has launched a dialogue on exports of welfare benefits. Norway is taking part in this dialogue to ensure the sustainable practice of the important principle of free movement. During the first quarter of next year, the government will present a big deal with an overall approach to the issue, within the framework of the European dialogue. There are more than 23 million unemployed in EU countries, and public debt averages 88 pst. of gross domestic product. High levels of private debt and high levels of unemployment hamper growth potential. Inflation in the euro area is very low, despite record low interest rates and exceptional measures taken by the European Central Bank. The economic situation varies between countries in the euro zone and between EU countries outside and within the euro zone. It is positive that countries that have received financial assistance in the past are now experiencing increased growth, increased competitiveness and falling unemployment. This is the case in Spain, Ireland and Portugal. It is worth noting that this is a country that has carried out tough structural reforms. Now the results are coming. The euro area countries approved a third loan package for Greece in August. Prime Minister Tsipras regained confidence in the elections in September and must now implement a comprehensive reform programme. It is the government's ability to reform that determines how quickly the loan package will be paid out, and whether there may be conversations about relief in the terms and conditions of debt. New growth is expected only in 2017. The situation places great demands on the action of the government of Tsipras. Another major test for EU cooperation concerns the United Kingdom’s negotiations with the EU on adaptations to the situation and the forthcoming referendum on its membership. This will be a key issue for future European cooperation. Of course, it is up to the British people to decide for themselves what serves their best interests, but we believe that Europe is a safer and economically more dynamic place with the United Kingdom as an EU member. Norwegian interests are well served by having the United Kingdom – a close ally, partner and a country with which we share many views – as a tone-setting member of the EU. To meet external and internal challenges, Europe needs a balanced policy of reforms to increase productivity, strengthen public finances and stimulate increased investment, employment and growth capacity in the long term. The economic crisis has revealed structural weaknesses in many Member States. Therefore, if Europe is to succeed in global competition, it requires a willingness and ability to reform. The economic crisis also showed a lack of coordination of economic policies. This is why a number of reforms have been implemented in the last five years to strengthen Eurocooperation. Before the sovereign debt crisis, the EU could not provide crisis loans to euro area countries. The Treaties have now been amended to enable this to be done through the EU crisis fund, ESM. The euro area banking union shall demonstrate negative interaction between banks in crisis and weak government finances. The Presidents of the European Council, the Commission, the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the European Parliament presented in June a proposal to further strengthen euro cooperation. However, countries differ in their view of how far integration within the euro area should go. The good economy of the euro area countries is in Norwegian interest, but Norway will not be directly affected by measures to further develop the euro area. Nevertheless, we need to follow developments in order to assess what possible reforms will mean for the internal market. Reforms are necessary but not sufficient to create new economic giving. In July, the Commission adopted the last decisions to launch the new EU Strategic Investment Fund – the Juncker Plan. The goal is the fund of 21 billion. EUR shall trigger investments worth a total of 315 billion. EUR over a three-year period. It is uncertain whether the Fund will have a particular impact in the short term, but it may lead to increased productivity and economic growth in the longer term. The Fund did not become operational until September, and it is too early to say anything about the Fund’s priorities. As part of the more strategic use of EEA funds, we have chosen innovation, research and education as one of the main areas of funding. In addition, a 100 million regional cooperation fund will be set up. euro. A large part of this fund will strengthen job opportunities and labour market mobility for young people. Norway will also benefit from the contribution of EEA funds to growth in the EU. The EU Research and Innovation Programme, Horizon 2020, and the EU Programme for Education, Culture and Sport, Erasmus+, are other key instruments for economic growth, competitiveness and innovation in Europe. And they are increasingly important for a Norway in transition. Norway is expected to contribute more than 2.3 billion in 2016. kr to Horizon 2020 and around €0.5 billion. to Erasmus+. It is therefore important that Norwegian actors use the opportunities provided by these programmes: opportunities to obtain research funding, but – even more importantly – opportunities to strengthen Norwegian cooperation with world-leading research communities. The opening of joint offices in Brussels by NTNU, SINTEF and the University of Bergen illustrates the importance of the EU and European cooperation in the research sector. Strengthening the investment climate in Europe is also the objective of the Commission’s proposal to establish a capital market union by 2019. Enterprises shall thus have better access to funding from sources other than banks. The initiative has been referred to as the most ambitious financial project since the introduction of the euro. The implementation of the Capital Markets Union could bring great benefits to the European economy. We are in favour of the Commission's ambitions to improve capital markets in Europe, thus contributing to growth and employment. Perhaps the most important initiative to strengthen economic development in the EU is the innovative use of ICT and digitisation, in short: the digital single market. This is an area of activity for both Norway and the EU. Digitalisation offers great growth opportunities for Norway and Europe – and especially if we can have a truly functioning digital single market. Digitalisation will bring about major changes in everyday life, well-being services and business. It also creates the need for fundamental and legal border crossings. This applies to privacy issues, and this applies in the meeting between new and old business models, which we see with, for example, Uber and Airbnb. The Commission’s Digital Single Market Strategy came in May. On the Norwegian side, we are engaged, among other things. through the 16 initiatives announced by the strategy. We have sent recordings to consultations on cross-border parcel delivery and audiovisual media services, where we include: has identified the challenges of the country-by-country principle and addressed consignments, in particular the advertising of alcohol and gambling. A separate EEA/EFTA position on consumer protection in e-commerce is also planned to be disseminated to the EU side. We are also committed to the revision of personal data law and the revision of copyright, the eco-legislation, the new EU e-government action plan and the development of the digital economy. We share the Commission's belief in the importance of a digital internal market for growth and competitiveness. At the same time, it is clear that we have both offensive and defensive interests to care for, and we are now identifying them. The government will deliver a big message about a New Digital Agenda. The European process is an important part of our own work. The negotiations on an EU-US trade and investment agreement, the TTIP negotiations, have been revitalised after the European Parliament's support for further negotiations this summer, and after the recent agreement of the US and 11 other Pacific countries on the so-called Trans-Pacific Partnership, TPP. TPP is positive for the countries concerned and could also have a positive economic impact on Europe. The fact that Japan is now part of the free trade area around the Pacific will also affect EU negotiations on an economic partnership with Japan. The growth of new mega-free trade areas needs to be seen in the light of the lack of progress in the WTO. Developments face challenges in Norway. Norway is not part of the TTIP negotiations, but our participation in the internal market, and our significant trade with the EU and the United States, means that Norway will be directly affected by a TTIP agreement. We actively promote Norwegian views towards the EU and the United States. Norway has a strong interest in ensuring the best possible adaptation or association to an agreement to free up transatlantic trade. In order to ensure overall Norwegian interest, a more comprehensive assessment of the different road choices available to Norway is needed. The government therefore decided before the summer to launch an external investigation of the potential impact on Norway of the TTIP. The growth needed by both Norway and the rest of Europe over the years and decades to come must be created in a way that takes account of our generation's greatest challenge: climate change and the need to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The need for green growth and migration will affect policy in a wide range of societal areas. We must both contribute to the adaptation of our national actions to European development and contribute to the debate at EU level. So let's do that in a couple of ways. The government has asked two leading actors – Idar Kreutzer from Finance Norway and Connie Hedegaard, former climate commissioner in the European Commission – to promote proposals for an overall strategy for green competitiveness. The Green Tax Commission will present its position before Christmas. The Committee shall promote proposals for green tax shifts that distort taxation against environmentally harmful activities and contribute to improved resource use and to the achievement of the objectives of the climate agreement. The government has also announced an energy message to Stortinget. A future-oriented energy policy will be crucial both for future growth and well-being and for shifting to more climate-friendly consumption. These processes have clear links with developments in Europe. For the EU, climate and energy policies are essential to strengthen competitiveness. Conversion to a green tax policy is central to the European Semester, which is the Commission's programme for structural reforms in the Member States. Norway has recently made a contribution to the Commission’s action plan on the circular economy, where the objective is greater and more efficient re-use of resources. The European Commission has announced that the action plan will be presented in December 2015. A key objective for both Norway and the EU this autumn is to establish an ambitious global climate agreement at the Paris climate summit. We have common interests in climate policy, many common instruments, and work closely together in climate negotiations. Based on broad consensus in the EEA, dialogue with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the 40 p.m. target has been initiated. emission reduction. It will provide the basis for a more effective climate policy and strengthen cooperation for a global agreement. The EU Environment Council in September confirmed that the EU wishes to welcome our initiative. We aim to enter into an agreement in two to three years, when the EU has put in place its new legislation to achieve its emissions target. We are involved in the design of EU implementing legislation, including: on the tightening of the quota trading system, non-quota sector legislation and climate rules for land management and forestry. Through the EEA, we are already participating in the EU ETS. We should also participate in the new cooperation in the non-quota sector on the same basis as EU countries. As part of the government’s international forest effort, Norway cooperates, among others. with the EU and several EU Member States through the UN Redd+ programme. We also contribute to the achievement of the EU’s climate and energy policy objectives through the export of gas and renewable energy to the EU. Through the EEA funds, we contribute to climate, renewable energy, environment and green industrial development measures in the recipient countries. In July, the Commission presented a ‘summer package’ with new initiatives in the field of climate and energy. In a consultation exercise in ours, we supported the further tightening of the quota trading system. We are now looking into the proposal and considering further comments from the Norwegian side. A goal is to create a forward-looking system that can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, taking into account the risk of carbon leakage and the competitiveness of industry. The energy system in the EU is changing. In a Communication on new market design, the Commission proposes a number of improvements to the energy market with a view to a common energy market throughout the EU. It shall contribute to clear price signals and attract investment for the further development of renewable energy in particular. Changes in the internal energy market are, of course, also affecting Norway. In our input to the EU, we have underlined the importance of well-functioning and efficient energy markets. Following a national consultation, we have had the following main message from Norway: We support a market design that gives effective price signals to all market players, and believe this is the best way to further develop Europe’s electricity markets. The main need now is not for new legislation but for existing legislation to be fully implemented and for experience to be gained. In the EU's work on an LNG strategy, we in Norway have highlighted the importance of a well-functioning and efficient European gas market with a diversified image of both suppliers and buyers. This is a prerequisite for energy security. Norway will continue to be a stable and predictable supplier of gas for a long time, as the purest of fossil energy sources. Clear EU signals regarding the role of gas in the transition to the low-carbon society are important to ensure the necessary investments in future production. The design of the Energy Union is important for Norway, and we focus on highlighting our interests. These days we have a dialogue with the Commission on Norway as a stable and reliable gas supplier. Commission Vice-President Maros Sefcovic will present his first annual status report to the Energy Union later this month. The report will form the basis for the assessment of the Heads of State or Government in December of the progress of the Energy Union. We are in close dialogue with the EU on the Energy Union and are continuously assessing the need for Norwegian input into the process. Our energy situation, with almost 100 pst. renewable power generation and extensive petroleum exports are unique in Europe. We therefore have in some contexts different concerns in energy policy than many EU countries. A specific issue is the design of a new EU energy and climate policy management system. Luxembourg has made this a major matter under its presidency. The system shall contribute to the necessary coordination to achieve the 2030 renewable energy objectives and energy efficiency improvement at EU level without imposing national targets on Member States. There are sometimes differing views on how this should be done, and it is uncertain what the EU countries will eventually agree on. The system could also affect Norway, for example: through reporting procedures in legal acts incorporated into the EEA Agreement. We have an overall interest in the success of the EU in achieving its 2030 targets and will continue to assess the input to the discussion launched in the EU in this area. As part of the follow-up to last year’s energy security strategy, the EU is now strengthening its energy diplomacy. EU ministers again signal the desire to further develop partnerships with key countries such as Norway. Let me refer here to the 2016 state budget, where it is proposed to allocate $5 million. for research into European climate and energy policy. The EU is our most important export market, including in terms of energy and energy technology. Through the EEA Agreement, we participate significantly in this cooperation. Both the economic, political and legal frameworks for our main export sector are largely being laid in the EU. Climate challenges, security policy and the need to strengthen competitiveness make EU climate and energy policies dynamic. It creates the need for faster and better analysis of development and how we adapt and exploit the opportunities created. These research funds will provide a basis for this. The migration and refugee crisis dominates both the agenda of Norway and the EU. Since the Prime Minister has recently made a broad statement on this matter to the Stortinget, I would like to limit my presentation to the policy developments at European level in the wake of the crisis. As you know, the security policy situation in and around Europe has deteriorated dramatically. Sahel, North Africa and the Middle East are characterized by deep lines of conflict that in many places receive violent expression. They are neither intergovernmental nor traditional civil wars and have regional dimensions and unclear dividing lines between rebel groups, terrorists and criminal networks. The civil war in Syria has driven away large parts of the country’s population. The war puts the region’s security into play while creating security challenges for Europe. With the emergence of ISIL, the picture of conflict is even more dramatic. ISIL attracts foreign fighters from all over the world — estimated at under 4,000 from Western Europe. Today, there are well over two million Syrian refugees in Turkey. In addition, 350000 acids are registered as internally displaced persons on the Syrian side of the border. The large flow of refugees entering the EU and Schengen through Turkey has changed the dynamics between Turkey and the EU. A joint action plan is now under discussion. The EU wants Turkey to do more to prevent illegal migration and trafficking in human beings and to improve the conditions of Syrian refugees, so that they are better placed to live in Turkey. For this purpose, Turkey will receive financial support and will be offered the prospect of facilitating visa restrictions for Schengen as well as new initiatives in the membership negotiations. The parties do not yet agree, nor does the EU agree on an overall approach. Germany is now negotiating a bilateral agreement with Turkey. The strong participation in the elections at the national assembly last Sunday carries the bid for the democratic aspirations of Turkey. Unfortunately, the admission to the elections was characterised by a serious security situation and by restrictions on the freedom of the media. The ACP Party of Justice and Development has succeeded in recovering the majority of national Parliaments. It is hoped that the government and a decision-making parliament will be a good partner for the EU to deal with the refugee crisis in Europe, and that Turkish authorities will also find their way back to the non-violent path with a solution process for their Kurdish citizens. There are now two key EU processes – on new global security strategy and new neighbourhood policy – that need to seek better answers to Europe’s key security policy issues: how to contribute to the development of stable and inclusive communities in neighbouring countries. It is a long-term and very complex task that will require much of Europe. The United States also gives clear messages to Europe about taking greater responsibility for its own security. Both diplomatic, economic, civil and military capabilities are necessary. In European foreign policy, nothing is more important than preventing and managing vulnerable countries and conflicts and chaos in our neighbourhood. The urgent task is to deal with the immediate consequences of the resolution in the Middle East. The crisis is testing both Europe’s value base and its practical capacities. An EU with strong internal tensions is now trying to set the course for tackling the migration and refugee crisis. Key issues discussed are cooperation with countries of transit and origin, improving the efficiency of return work, future division of responsibilities and changes to the Dublin Agreement, as well as Schengen cooperation and management of external borders. The great pressure against the external borders of the Schengen area has raised a debate on the future management of the external borders. The Commission's intention is to present a package of measures to improve management. As part of this, a strengthening of Frontex and other agencies in the area of migration and asylum and a review of cooperation between bureaux, their tasks and the boundaries of responsibility of individual countries have been announced. Proposals may be made for the development of a common border and coastal guard system in the EU. The starting point for many EU countries is that new measures should not significantly affect the distribution of competences between Member States and the EU level. It is also Norway's position, although as a non-member we do not have the right to vote on the issue. However, it cannot be excluded that EU bodies are given increased powers, such as: enforcement related. Today, Member States have full responsibility for their external borders, while Frontex has a supporting and coordinating role. It can be said that the EU is looking for a system where resources can be moved more efficiently from quiet borders to under pressure. EU discussions and decisions are now marked by acute crisis management. But they can have long-term consequences. As with the 2008 financial crisis, the crisis can force more powerful common instruments in the EU. At that time it was to strengthen the coordination of economic policies. It is now in order to achieve enhanced coordination in the management of migration and refugee flows. Developments are gradual and fragmentary, depending on what political agreement can be reached. Many countries are on guard against what may be perceived as a weakening of national responsibility in migration and refugee issues. At the same time, most realise that a stronger element of common European solutions is crucial. Norway has been significantly involved in the process until now, both because we are entitled to it through Schengen cooperation, and because these are common challenges, where the EU actively seeks contributions and sharing of responsibilities beyond the 28. Norway will continue to take joint responsibility for the common challenges we face. In addition, the government has facilitated the use of EEA funds in the area of migration and refugees in the coming funding period. Today, we are funding asylum and migration measures in Greece through the EEA funds. This is what we want to extend to several countries in order to strengthen the capacity and competence of national asylum and migration authorities in the recipient countries. We need to exploit the flexibility that EEA funds represent in order to complement the EU's resources. We open extensive cooperation of powers on other measures to strengthen the control of the common Schengen external border. We will also set up NGOs programmes to help meet the needs of refugees for health, education and integration. This includes the continuation of today’s efforts to create an inclusive Europe by combating xenophobia and hateful expressions. In the last few years, the EU has been a stronger foreign and security policy player. The EU and EU countries played a key role in the process until the agreement on Iran's nuclear programme this summer. The EU has tools that have been important in the management of the crisis in Ukraine. Despite internal tensions, the EU has strengthened its political coordination. The option would have increased uncertainty. The serious threat picture means that we must also interact with the EU and European partners from the Norwegian side. We therefore coordinate our policies with the EU and the EU Member States. It is in our interest to participate in the entire security policy debate in Europe – both within NATO and in dialogue with the EU. For Norway, it is important that Europe remains united behind the reaction to Russia’s violations of international law and unacceptable acts in Ukraine. At the same time, we will endeavour to maintain cooperation with Russia in important areas, such as fisheries, the environment, nuclear safety, search and rescue, and to maintain people-to-people contact across the border in the north. Cooperation in the Arctic Council and in the Barents region also contributes to low voltage in the north. The EU association and free trade agreements with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine constitute a new chapter of the European integration project. These agreements are fundamental not only to the European association of countries but also to the credibility of European cooperation and to the principle that each country has the right to choose its own international relationship. Norway has undertaken to assist Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine in their European integration process. The process is broken. The country's own governments need to do more to succeed. It is in our interest for them to succeed, and we are making a concrete contribution to supporting reforms and modernisation in these countries. A major Norwegian-Ukrainian ICT and investment conference will be held in Oslo next week. We have taken initiatives towards the EU to further develop cooperation between Norway and the EU on the EU's Eastern Partnership. When the EU now assesses reforms in its neighbourhood policy, it is in Norwegian interest to closely interact with them. During the next period of the EEA funds will be opened to support cross-border efforts through a dedicated fund of around 850 million. kr. Countries that are not recipients of EEA funds may be included. It opens up cooperation with e.g. Ukraine and Moldova. As an EEA member, Norway has experience with European integration that we can share. We have already briefed representatives from Ukraine on the organisation and working methods of EEA work in Norwegian administration. We have also offered to share our experience with Moldova and Georgia. The complex crises in our neighbourhoods require responses at different levels: civil and military, national, intergovernmental and supranational. The relationship between NATO and the EU is of particular importance and has been a positive development in the last year. The Union and the Alliance operate in different parts of the crisis registry. In the Ukraine crisis, we have seen that they complement each other in a good way. In order to ensure a more effective response to current and future threats, it is important that we continue to develop both the political dialogue and the practical cooperation between the EU and NATO. This should be a priority both in the EU's work on a new global security strategy and in NATO's preparation for next year's summit in Warsaw. The EU Directive on the acquisition of defence and security is essential for the further development of the Norwegian defence industry. The Directive, which was incorporated into Norwegian law on 1 January 2014, may, in the long term, provide new opportunities for the competitive Norwegian defence industry, but it requires that the market is effectively opened up to equivalent and open competition. We will follow closely the practice of the directive in other countries and apply it in such a way that the Norwegian defence industry is guaranteed the same real framework conditions and rules as the EU countries. Developments in Europe following the introduction of the Directive are therefore highlighted in the communication on the relationship between the defence sector and the industry presented by the government on 30 October 2015. Europe's role in the world is changing. The world is more interconnected, contentious and complex. New crises are threatening on and around the continent. Then we in Europe must stand together on our values, our security and our interests in the world. We have to let our values mean something when the world's turmoil comes upon our doorstep, and we have to strengthen our ability to manage these values in practice. Europe must then become economically stronger. Stronger, sustainable growth is essential for Europe to maintain its level of well-being, create jobs, develop a low-carbon economy and be able to receive and integrate refugees. Stronger, sustainable growth is needed to enable Europe to meet its troubled neighbourhood with a more powerful foreign and security policy. It is in Norwegian interest for Europe to succeed. Therefore, it is in Norway's interest that we are active co-players in the work of a prosperous, secure and free Europe in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e372	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. No objections have been raised against this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e388	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e394	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1, the statement on key EU and EEA issues has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-03.ana.ud2561e660	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
