ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e35	The representatives of Sylvi Graham, Anette Trettebergstien, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Kristian Norheim, Per Sandberg and Bengt Morten Wenstøb, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: on the sick leave of the representative of Mazyar Keshvari from 3 June onwards and until further notice from the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on leave from 4 June to 8 June in order to take part in the elections of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE during the parliamentary elections in Turkey On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Peter N. MyhreFor Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e89	Peter N. Myhre is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e101	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Thorhild Widvey, Bent Höie and Tord Lien will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e108	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. During the last Question Time of the spring session, I have a follow-up from a previous change of words in the Stortingen on how health policy is going to work together. The council pointed out that time to all the messages he had submitted, and that's good and good. But behind it all, there's a more distinct picture. We have a hospital sector that has got 1 billion. kr less than the State Council promised before the elections, which included: have led to cutting in the ambulance service in the north. We've got a prescription for medical medicine, which has a clearly centralizing effect. There is a threat of hospital emergency surgery in half of the country's local hospital, and we've got the prestige reform Free treatment choice, which is going to take money from public hospitals to finance private providers that the Department is assuming will primarily establish in the largest cities. In other words, it is a strong centralizing policy. Now, when we go into the election campaign, how will the Council of State explain this context in government health policy, for example. for people in my part of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e115	Firstly, this government has proposed and been granted more money and higher growth in the hospitals' economy during our two budgets than the red-green government has been able to achieve over eight years. It provides a good basis for strengthening and further developing hospital services. We have produced three messages pointing out the direction of health policy, the fourth, national health and hospital plan, coming to the autumn. We've made a public health report, which has a very important content because we're now raising mental health and likening it to our physical health. Everyone has a mental health. We have provided a primary health report, which not least raises the need to expand the quality and capacity of healthcare in municipalities. This is important because most health services are provided where people live. Here, it is inspiration to pick up, not least from many municipalities in the north that are ahead of the development of investing in quality, and not least by investing in good cooperation with specialist health services locally to provide decentralised health services. That is precisely what is also the objective of the primary health communication. We have also presented a pharmaceutical notification that is important in order to ensure faster and better access to medicines, but also to contribute to this becoming a sector of innovation and jobs in Norway. Then comes the national health and hospital plan for the autumn. It is my goal to help us find good solutions that ensure both quality and a decentralised hospital structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e126	There are a lot of things in health policy that we can all agree on. We are very pleased that the government has submitted a public health report. In many of the other messages, we also, in part at least, agree with the government's policy. But I'm concerned about the undercurrent of health policy. I am concerned that the hospitals have not received the money they were promised and that they need to provide good services – among other things. in the part of the country that I live, that has such great distances. We know that the municipalities have not been compensated for the failure of the tax entrance. It does something about the services to be provided. I want to ask the Council of State whether he agrees or disagrees with his own department that if the Performance Reform Free Treatment Choice is rolled out widely, it will have a clearly centralizing effect, for those who are going to establish themselves in this scheme will mainly settle in the largest cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e131	With regard to the economy of hospitals, the State budget adopted for 2014 had the highest budgeted for the growth of the hospital economy that has ever been adopted. There we put in more money than the previous government had proposed. This trend also continued in the 2015 budgets for hospitals, where there is also a significant increase on top of this. As I said, we have managed to facilitate higher growth in our two state budgets than the red-green government has been able to achieve over eight years. It provides a basis for positive development and not least for hospitals to be able to treat more patients. But it is also important that we use the free capacity that is at private. Therefore, we introduce free treatment options, and we start with addicts and mentally ill people, precisely because – as the drug addicts’ own organisations say – they have a strong need to get faster help and not least to choose the treatment site themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e136	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e139	Yes, the government has presented many and important reforms. If we look into the future, or into the sphere, as we say in Rogaland, we know that a very large proportion of the population is getting older. The many older ones are described by some as a tsunami wave. I want to look at it a little bit differently. However, many older people are concerned about getting services close — as soon as possible — not far from here. And we know that the local economy shows that the tax revenue has failed. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that the municipalities will continue to give priority to budgets in the future, which will focus heavily on good initiatives to improve the quality of life and to combat disease that is causing the need for hospitals in our older population?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e146	Firstly, it is important that the Stortinget and the government grant money to the municipalities so that they can further develop their services. We have done that for the municipal structure that was adopted for 2015, which has also now been strengthened, where, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have done something so rare as compensate for failing tax revenue, which it is not common to do. We have also provided a good community plan for the next year. So the answer to the representative's question, in the government's opinion, is that what we need more in the municipalities is to focus on competence. In the same way that the teacher’s competence is crucial for the learning of pupils in school, the competence of municipal health and care services is crucial for the quality of those services — not least in order to provide a significant improvement in the provision of health services to disabled people. That is why we are now reversing the red-green government's professionally neutral municipal health service law and imposing legal requirements for the competence of municipal health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e153	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e156	The purpose paragraph of the Health Business Act, Section 1, provides the basis for much of what we are discussing. It says that good and equivalent specialist health services are to be provided to all those who need it, when they need it. What is people's experience is that the government is running a policy where they systematically go away from the equivalence of the purpose paragraph, through their centralization. Free treatment choices, based on commercial principles, will reinforce this. My question is, does the Council of State understand the concern of those affected by the weakening of the sense of being treated equally?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e164	I disagree with the presentation of the representative. On the contrary, we see a build-up of decentralised health services under this government. Recently, Valdres Local Medical Centres opened, where the Inland Hospital provides decentralised specialist health services in cooperation with the municipalities, where the municipalities have merged to establish joint municipal services to strengthen the offer. We see this development all over the country, and it is very good — for example. dialysis patients now receive dialysis treatment in Valdres and do not travel for hours, often every day, to receive it. The free choice of treatment reform is not a centralisation reform. That's the extreme decentralization you can imagine. We're moving power from the system to the individual patient. Can one imagine something more decentralised than that the individual patient actually gets the opportunity to choose the treatment site himself, based on the wishes of the individual patient?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e171	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e174	I realized that the question from the Workers' Party was about structure and quality in the health sector. The Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation is one of Norway's largest voluntary membership organisations. They're a big player, and they're spending a lot on research, innovation and development. In Denmark they have chosen the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation as their sole operator. Sweden and Finland consider something similar. In Norway, we go in a direction where we split up, run a number of bidding processes and aim towards a mix of commercial players and the Norwegian Air ambulance Foundation. Will the Council of State assess what has been done in Denmark, and use the air ambulance as an actor to a greater extent in Norway to ensure the functions of the whole country — and also the major development actor that the air ambulance is?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e181	Norway has a significantly more developed air ambulance service than it has in Denmark and Sweden. Denmark has recently started this and thus had a national tender, which Norsk Luftambulansse won. I think competition is also healthy in this area, and I see Norwegian Air ambulances often win that kind of competition, but I think it's also exasperating for them to be able to participate in this. But Norwegian Air Ambulance, as a company participating in the competition, must be able to withstand competition against others. Then it's the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation, which is an ideal foundation. We have extensive cooperation with them, not least in the field of professional development in the prehospital services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e186	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e189	The government went to the elections on a parole about executive power. In the health field, the promises to remove the queues have been acknowledgment this spring that the State Council's performance project on free treatment does not have an impact on the queues. The promise to give the torches in Hospital-Norway an address, namely the Stortinget, has become the promise of a hospital plan where the Stortinget will not be allowed to decide on the hospital structure and the promise to remove the regional health companies has disappeared in total loyalty to the existing company model. I'm not going to ask if the Council of State is impressed by its own implementation, because it was clear from the previous answer that he is, but rather ask quite specifically about the last, the regional health companies, because it is actually a point where the Right and SV have agreed. However, there is little evidence that the Council of State actually has a plan to do something about the level of regional health enterprises. So I wonder if that part of Right's policy has been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e196	Waits go down. Not least, we see that one gets a very clear and clear positive feedback from patients in the cancer field, where the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left before the elections had clear promises, which are now being implemented. The introduction of a cancer package course provides patients with shorter waiting time while improving information and coordinated services. Free treatment options introduced before Christmas will also reduce unnecessary waiting for patients. The first step in changing the management system for specialist health services is the presentation of a national health and hospital plan, which has also been agreed for many years by the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left – and indeed the SV and the Center Party – that should come. Now it's coming this fall. It is a significant prerequisite for the other changes in the governance model that the government is also to implement, which is in the government platform, and which means that we are also to liquidate regional health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e203	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e206	It is good that the Council of State stays standing, because my question goes to the Council of State Höie. Hospitals and the security of getting the help you need when life is vulnerable and affected is at the heart of all of us. Then medical staff, emergency services, hospitals and good, competent people in the air ambulance and in the ambulance are central to knowing that we are being well cared for. Governments have notified a health and hospital plan to be treated by the Stortinget for the autumn. In its January 2015 hospital speech, the Council of State presented three alternatives to hospital operations with emergency surgery. Acute surgery, surgery and internal medicine are key elements of a hospital. For my part and for the Christian People's Party, this is incredibly close. What remains after the hospital speech in January is 60,000-80,000 inhabitants as a strikefield for maintaining acute surgery. The outlines of the state councils have been disturbing in many disciplines and in District Norway. Some have even said that there will almost not be a local hospital again north of Trondheim. The Medical Association met with a resolution in its last Governing Council saying: ‘The population must be guaranteed good emergency services irrespective of their place of residence. Well-functioning local hospital is necessary in the emergency medical treatment chain. Travel time, geography and weather conditions are critical factors requiring a local hospital with full emergency response.» What will the Council of State do to ensure that emergency surgery and good local hospitals with a high level of competence are available to all citizens? And why does the Council of State flag population figures as a decisive, dominant criterion so early in the process of a national health and hospital plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e224	It is absolutely right that we should present a national health and hospital plan for the autumn. It's been a long-term job. In this context, emergency services and prehospital services will be a key issue, which is highlighted precisely because having good emergency services is crucial to the safety of the population. My ambition is to create a national health and hospital plan that helps to maintain a decentralised hospital structure in Norway. I am concerned that this is essential for the safety of the population, and I believe that we also get very clear and clear feedback on it. Local hospitals will play a greater role in the years to come, not least as a result of our ageing. Some of the areas in which the smaller hospitals are located will also have a particular number of elderly people who will need more specialised hospital services. When I raised the challenges we face, already in my speech in January, it was precisely to get an open discussion on these challenges – that we not only make a national health and hospital plan inside the closed offices of the departments, but create a plan based on an open discussion outside. That is why we have visited all kinds of hospitals throughout the country. As far as the Medical Association's decision is concerned, I believe that if one applies the quality requirements to all hospitals in Norway that are to have an emergency reception, it will mean a dramatic centralisation of the hospital structure in Norway. As the Medical Association itself says in the report they have recorded to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which is the premise for that conclusion: there are too many hospitals with emergency facilities. In reality, this means that the Medical Association assumes that there is one subject, surgery, that will be allowed to determine what the hospital structure in Norway will look like in the future. I disagree. For example, it will. depriving people suffering from strokes, heart arrest or breathing problems the possibility of receiving rapid and effective help in their local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e237	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State said that prehospital services are a central part of the hospital structure. As we say in Bedehuse-Norway, it's important to build your house on mountains. Building the health and health plan on the prehospital services believes the Christian People's Party is very central. So the Christian People's Party's question is, how will the Council of State ensure that the prehospital services become a central and operational part of the health and health plan? One thing is to keep it on paper, but the most important thing for us is to have it as an operational part of the health and health plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e245	That's why we've given our own assignment to the so-called Olsen Committee, which is now working on recommendations. They will provide a final report, but they will also provide partial recommendations related to the prehospital services. This will form part of the basis of a national health and hospital plan. When it is dealt with in the Stortinget, it will provide guidance on the future appearance of prehospital services in Norway, which health regions are given the task to follow up, following the treatment of the Stortinge. It is absolutely right that we have to look at the emergency services in a context. There is a continuous chain from the municipal bodyguard to the specialised prehospital services of the emergency wards in the smaller hospitals and to the larger and more advanced trauma services available in the medium and large hospitals. We have to look at this more closely than what has been the case now, in a context, so that we can ensure the security of the population throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e252	Follow-up questions are given – first Hans Fredrik Gruvan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e255	Available data from the Knowledge Centre indicate that there are no demonstrable differences in the quality of large and small hospitals. The population must be guaranteed good emergency services regardless of residence, and we know that emergency surgery provides life-saving treatment where the minutes can count. And many claim with great professional weight that hospitals without versatile surgery will have problems recruiting doctors and thus losing competence. Even I come from a region where Flekkefjord hospitals have these functions today. To what extent does the Council of State consider that travel time, geography and this with many visitors in parts of the year are burdensome factors which, in addition to quality, should be taken into account when deciding on a local hospital should have full emergency preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e262	There are many aspects that provide good quality for smaller hospitals and our local hospitals. This applies not least to the proximity, both in time and also to cooperation with municipal health and care services. It's often the case that you have good quality because there are good people working there, who know their patients, and who know their environment. At the same time, there's a development in the medical profession that makes one of the most advanced, much of what's life-threatening, need more complex teams with very high specialised competence to be able to provide help. Therefore, there is a decentralisation, a centralisation and a specialisation in our hospitals. With the geography we have in Norway, it will be that even if one comes up with different models for different types of hospitals, one always has to take local and geographical considerations; one has to take into account distance, climate and geography. This is why, for example: making any changes to the hospital structure in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e269	Karianne O. Heavy - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e272	The Christian People's Party has raised several important issues for the hospital structure in Norway, and another very important issue is the competence of those who work in hospitals today. The Directorate for Health, on behalf of the Ministry, has drawn up proposals for different models of modified specialist medical training. There is disagreement as to what this structure should finally look like, and in particular this concerns the specialisation of emergency medicine. There are very fundamental and demanding changes that are now under assessment and that can ultimately affect the organisation of the whole hospital sector. The Labour Party therefore considers that the Government must present to the Stortinget a separate case concerning the organisation and conditions of the future arrangement before its adoption. The Council of State party, after the 2013 big shot, was very eager to include the Storting in decisions. Does he still agree with that, and will he present to the Stortinget a case of specialist training?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e279	It's a very strong professional discussion around our desire to establish our own specialty in reception and emergency medicine, and I think that's very good, because it gives us a good basis for the decisions that one should finally make. That's why I recently gave the Directorate of Health an additional task related to that particularity. One has also set up a separate working group and has drawn people with different experiences, different backgrounds and different points of view into that work. That, I think, would be useful to come up with more agreed solutions, but also to find a good basis for making decisions. This is a question that is essential for the future development of hospitals in Norway, and therefore this will also be a central theme of the National Health and Hospital Plan and thus also a topic for discussion in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e286	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e289	The South Hospital estimates to turn hospitals in Arendal and Flekkefjord into so-called day hospitals without emergency care. In the context of the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on New Hospitals in More and Romesdal, the Council of State Höie stated that there is a common practice of possible clarifications on process and structure changes without the Storting being informed about this. I think the Council of State will inform you about what has been done in the health care system, and my question is really very simple: does it have our contact between the Sørlande Hospital and the State Council and Department to turn hospitals in Arendal and Flekkefjord into day-care centres and to shut down the maternity ward at Flekkefjord Hospital, and will the Council inform the Stortinget about what has been said?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e294	No, there has not been such a contact between the management of the Sørland hospital and me on that kind of question. I am also not aware that there are plans to turn Arendal Hospital into a day-care facility. Arendal hospitals, however different models are now being discussed at national health and hospital level, have a population base for maintaining a wide range of services, including emergency services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e299	Gunhild Berge Stang – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e303	I refer to the work done in Sogn and Fjordane to be at the forefront of health care transitions, by calling about local hospitals – adding the new tasks aimed at broad patient groups, chroniclers, old sick people, rushes, psychiatry and more – and with the co-location of community services. Is this a model to which the Minister of Health is positive, will further develop and will look at the possibility of transferring to other enterprises as well – with local hospital à la Nordfjord hospital as a berebel?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e308	Yes, absolutely. The development work that has taken place in Sogn and Fjordane, I believe we have a lot to pick up from in our work on a national health and hospital plan. In Sogn and Fjordane, a structure is in place which means that the hospital in Fjord has a wide range of emergency services, while one also has emergency services both in Nordfjord and in Lærdal. I think it is worth noting that after the fire in Lærdal there were many who came on the track and showed how important it was with the local hospital in Lærdal in the situation in which they were at that time. But Lärdal Hospital is just a hospital that has the possibility to have an emergency facility without necessarily having the width of surgery in that emergency facility. If you base the Medical Association's demands on the content of the emergency service, there will be no basis for having a hospital in Lärdal. I believe that much of the theories that work well on the desktop do not work well in practice. If you're going to look at what works well in practice, it's a good idea to... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e315	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e318	‘Several injuries will die with increased travel time’. Those are not my words, but it is the conclusion of an emergency medical task force working on behalf of regional health businesses. They come up with this recommendation at the same time as the government is considering cutting down local hospital emergency surgery. So it's not the population base, but the distance that's taken, and they say that if it takes more than 45 minutes to transport very damaged people to a large emergency hospital, they should be transported to a local hospital with emergency facilities. At the same time, there has been a report from De Factor – «Quality and proximity – the role of local hospitals» – on the hospital on Tynset, which shows that size and quality are not related. But acute functions and quality are very closely related, both to the usual treatment and to trauma treatment, if it is far from the major hospitals. Will the Council of State take this into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e327	When we work with the national health and hospital plan, it is precisely for the purpose of finding models that mean that we can have a decentralised hospital structure with emergency functions, while at the same time maintaining good quality both in the emergency service and in the other services to be provided in hospitals. It is totally inappropriate for us to make recommendations to the Storting about models that mean that over time half of the country's local hospital and emergency services need to be shut down. That is why I am also very much questioning the requirements that the National Board of the Medical Association has adopted to allow emergency services. In reality, this will mean that people who have a stroke, who have a heart attack, who have breathing problems, will have to experience a significantly longer journey to a hospital, with a high risk of long-term damage, because the medical development of one subject is allowed to direct the development of the hospital structure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e334	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e337	State Council Höie has caused great unrest in Health-Noreg because of her hospital speech in January this year. The Council of State stated: ‘In order to perform emergency surgery, a patient basis of at least 60 to 80000 inhabitants is required. This means that at least half of today’s Norwegian hospitals have insufficient patient base.’ From the north to the south, the opinion of the Council of State has created a great deal of insecurity. Signals have destabilised the hospital organisation. Strong trade unions have been in doubt about the future for their own jobs. Pending the decision of the Storting in connection with the National Health and Hospital Plan, developments have stopped and a professional vacuum has arisen. Of course, this leads to poorer recruitment and a decrease in quality. The Medical Association has now established that defence and good preparedness and security for the population must be the most important factor in the country’s hospital structure. The union believes - as opposed to the councillor Höie - that the combination of the specialities of internal medicine, surgery and anaesthesia is a provision for good professional quality and the treatment of emergency patients in hospitals. The medical association represents a great many skilled professionals, and their assessment is that emergency surgery is a prerequisite for quality. My question to the Council of State is superior: how can he put Sjukehus-Noreg in such an insecure and unresponsive situation for very important key welfare services, and what are the professional arguments for doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e349	I understand that the Central Party has agreed with the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left that there has been a need for a national health and hospital plan. Of course, we could choose to draw up a national health and hospital plan within the closed offices of the Ministry of Health and Care and not air any of the challenges and dilemmas that such a plan will answer to. Then I think I would get quite strong criticism from the representative Toppe when the announcement had been made, because it was undemocratic, and that one had not listened to professionals. So I chose a strategy to be open to the challenges we're facing -- challenges that I think everyone who knows Hospital-Norway admits are real, challenges that are not new -- they were clearly pointed out in the investigation that ironically had the name «If it's urgent...», which was presented as early as 1998. Of course, the development described there has only been reinforced in the nearly 20 years that have passed since then. Therefore, we must be open and honest about these challenges and discuss them. But I do not understand that the discussion leads to the development within the hospitals that the representative here describes. I see that part of those who are strong followers of good deals locally, prints the doctors' decision to their breasts. I'll put a big question mark on that. In the report sent by the Medical Association to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which is the premise for that conclusion, they state that there are too many hospitals that have emergency facilities, there is too little occupational and functional distribution between hospitals, resources are spread too wide and thin to small hospitals, and then often suffer from quality. If we take the conclusion of the Medical Association and interpret it so that their requirements apply to all hospitals that have emergency functions, it really means a dramatic centralisation of the hospital structure in Norway. I don't want to. I do not want developments in the surgical profession to be allowed to determine what emergency services in Norway are going to look like and that people who have heart failure or strokes are thus deprived of the opportunity to get good help at their local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e358	How acute surgery develops is probably as much a political question as a professional one. The centre party welcomes an open debate on developments in the specialist services in the future. But what is critical is that councillor Höie in his hospital talk comes with some figures about a population limit, where one can show no scientific basis for precisely such a limit to be necessary and therefore creates a completely unnecessary unrest and an unrelenting situation out in Sjukehus-Noreg. The Minister of Health and Health is probably on a lot of visits, but I have been in a lot of hospitals, and I haven't met one internal medicine that practises outside, which supports the disappearance of the surgeons from the emergency room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e363	This model is a model that works well, for example: in a state that the representative should know well, Sogn and Fjordane. It provides local safety and was developed in a model, ‘Experience of the local hospital of the future’, which was started at Nordfjord Hospital under the previous government. It's also the model they have at Lærdal Hospital, which, not least, the Center Party was out and shelfled after the fire in Lærdal, as an example of how important it is with local hospitals. I'm a little surprised that the representative is now trying to devalue the significance of these important local hospitals. The numerical basis on which we have to base ourselves is based on international research, but it is not least based on practical and concrete experience from Hospital-Norway. Those in the group of experts who were the basis for the number that I went out with in my hospital speech are people who work in hospitals in Norway today. The new report from the Health Directorate in this area has been prepared by people working in Norwegian hospitals today. It is based on concrete experience from the Norwegian hospital everyday life, and not a desktop report.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e370	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e374	It is necessary to say it from the pulpit of the Storting: the Council of State is one of the foremost in concealment, with great boldness. It was now stated that local hospitals should play a greater role without the Council of State defining the content of a local hospital. Freedom is so great that the Council of State believes that the centralisation of emergency surgery in hospitals is of greater quality to people when it is replaced, because the ambulance service is getting better. Put it down, President! Professionals and interested people know that this is not true. Longer road to lifesaving help will not serve the people. There must be a short time and a short distance from full emergency response. These are the words of the leader of the North Trøndelag Right, Elin Agdestein. Why does it not impress the Council of State when such strong criticism also comes from leading Right-wing people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e381	First of all, it's just work to define the content of the different types of hospitals we're now doing well. It's a job that I've been asking for in all the eight years of the Center Party put in government, without doing a thorough job with it. But now we do that job. And then we also have to endure when we're doing that job, that there's actually an open and democratic discussion about the challenges we're facing. I fully agree with my party colleague Agdestein that it is important to maintain a hospital structure in Norway that gives closeness to emergency services. It's just one of the ambitions of this work to secure it, while at the same time ensuring the quality of the offers. It's also something that patients give very clear feedback about. The user selections of healthcare companies also provide very clear feedback that proximity is important, but it is not least important that there is a good quality of the offer that a person encounters. In this voltage, what we have to find are good solutions that mean that we both have quality and proximity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e388	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e391	The question about the hospital structure is very much about professional competence, and if that's what we know, it's that we're going to have a shortage of professional competence in the years that come. The council did not respond when I asked if he thought that free treatment would lead to a centralisation of offers, as his own department says, and that is because he knows that the answer is yes. If you introduce the logic of the market, you get the dynamics of the market. It's like those who are going to make money on health care, of course, want to settle down where there's a lot of people living and offering something within where they have the most profitable patients. The Health Council said he wants freedom of choice for the patients. Yes, so will the Workers' Party. We have freedom of choice today – we have had it for 15 years – free hospital elections, and the Workers' Party will expand this choice. Then my question is: why will the Government give up the management tool when he knows that professionals become the big scarce resource to build a seagoing, commercial hospital sector, disconnected from the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e398	As the representative knows, we are very clear that when we evaluate which subject areas are included in the free treatment choice scheme, consideration of existing professional environments in public hospitals will be one of the criteria under consideration. So if the introduction of an area, for example, poses a threat to the disappearance of a subject area or to a risk of non-decentralisation of the offer, it is one of the themes that will then be considered and thus has the possibility of not introducing that area into the scheme. Then I don't agree with the premise. If we look at any of the institutions that really want us to enjoy introducing free treatment choices in drug and mental health, this is the institution that is not least located in District Norway. I want to remind you that the Finnmark collective, which was laid down under the red-green government, is now open again and will be ready to accept patients in this area. Clinics in Eastfold that were closed under the red-green government are now up and going again and are ready to accept patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e405	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e408	The Christian People's Party sees the need for, and is pleased that it is coming, a health and hospital plan because technology has changed, treatment options have changed, research has shown new ways to go, and we have been given the opportunity to treat new diseases, so we are pleased. At the same time, we have experienced the pressure that local hospitals are now experiencing in their own health regions, because they are small and have to fight for funds, and there are questions about whether they will survive according to the health and health plan. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that the quality and competence of local hospitals are maintained while we are waiting for the health and health plan – we have not yet adopted anything – so that it does not become a self-enhancing process for local hospitals because there is so much unrest out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e415	Firstly, the challenge associated with local hospitals that feel a threat of closure is not something that has come after we launched a national health and hospital plan. There is nothing that has come after the government change. This has been going on for many years, not least as a result of the developments also described in the 1997 Storing Communication and the ‘In case of urgency...’. What is important to me is that we now have a national health and hospital plan that is democratically anchored here in the Storting, where we are increasingly given political control over this development. Therefore, the government in its government platform also says that emergency and food services should not be stopped while we are working on a national health and hospital plan unless this is justified in terms of quality and patient safety. Therefore, there will be no changes in this area without involving me as the Council of State, and it has been done in the cases where there have been changes, where I have taken political responsibility for the decisions that I believe are right from the point of view of patient safety and quality. However, otherwise, there can be a sense of security that there will be no significant change in this area unless there is a concrete link to quality and patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e422	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e425	Local hospitals have always been important for the Left, because local hospitals are also concerned with the security of people in the neighbourhoods. Hardly anything involves more than rocking that security, which I have a great understanding of. There was also considerable uncertainty during the red-greens when the ambulance operation was reorganized. Good competence in our local hospital is absolutely necessary. In recent times, however, there has been some uncertainty about exactly this with a local hospital, also in my county, Nord-Trøndelag, among others. has spread uncertainty around Namdal hospitals in Namsos. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State can confirm that there is a basis for such uncertainty around the hospital in Namsos.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e432	I believe, as I have said several times in this questioning, that it is important to maintain a decentralised hospital structure in Norway. It is also important to have emergency services in the smaller hospitals. At the same time, it is important to ensure quality. I believe that it is possible to find solutions to this, and that is exactly what we are working on in connection with the national health and hospital plan. But I also hope that the representative understands that while working on a national health and hospital plan, I cannot decide what should be the specific content of the individual hospitals around the country. It would be a totally unsustainable situation. It is also true that if there are some politicians who travel around and tell the population that the contents of their hospital should be just like today in a decade’s perspective – yes, politicians who travel around and promise that the offer will be worse. Because there is one thing that is absolutely certain, and it is that if the offer in Norwegian hospitals today had been as it was ten years ago, we would have had a worse offer. Development and change are part of improving the supply of patients, so promising things to be like now is a very bad promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e440	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e443	Fear not, is the message of the Council of State today. On 7 January he said the following to Nr.no in connection with the hospital address: ‘In order to perform emergency surgery, a patient basis of at least 60 to 80000 inhabitants is required, meaning that at least half of today’s Norwegian hospitals are too small.’ What's the trouble? It's this kind of statement, combined with the political blessing of shutting down the emergency services at Rjukan Hospital, which has made very many communities feel very afraid of their hospitals and their emergency services. It's a disturbance that's the government's responsibility. People in the districts don't bleed any slower than other people. The acute medical task force working for regional health businesses has also said very clearly now that more people will die with increased travel time. Then the question is: is the quote from 7 January still the starting point for the work on the hospital plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e453	When discussing what is a realistic population base for maintaining the breadth of surgery in acute situations, it is quite right that one should be able to do so, it is very clear recommendations from professionals with practical experience from hospitals in Norway that this is the reality. This is the development already described in 1997. My important point is that those developments should not be allowed to determine how the hospital structure in Norway should be, how emergency services in Norway should be. Medical development in a subject, surgery – such as: This means that we are currently able to treat cancers that we have not been able to deal with in the past, with significantly better results, and that is a desirable development – must not be allowed to determine what the emergency service and hospital structure in Norway will look like in the future. That is precisely why it is also important to take that discussion, and we believe that it is possible to do so in a national health and hospital plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e458	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e461	The Minister of Health may stand still, but we're changing the theme – to drugs and psychiatry. The cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left states that treatment provision for addicted and mentally ill people should be strengthened, with increased capacity and a more coherent and seamless treatment cycle. More responsibility should be given to municipalities, and outpatient services should be strengthened without going at the expense of day-to-day care where necessary. The interaction reform is to be completed, and the municipal obligation to provide immediate help and daily services should include users with mental health and drug problems. That's good. The government has reintroduced the golden rule that mental health and alcohol alone should have greater growth than somatic in all health regions, and that is good. It also introduces free treatment options for drug use and mental health from 1 September this year. Wait time and freedom of choice. That's good. There was also a recent majority in favour of the Left’s proposal to extend the system of dealing with more addicts rather than punishing them. That's good. Both the field of mental health and drug use has been, and will hopefully be, strengthened in the years to come. In 2015, the municipalities received 200 million. Dr more for drug and mental health work. It's announced 400 new millions for next year. The availability of drugs and mental health is also strengthened. Through the creation of several font houses, support for the establishment of the Blue Cross Compass in several cities, the street football and a number of other measures are much under way. It is also good and a proper development, as low-threshold services are needed where people live. But there will still be a great need for specialist health services too. Norway is at the top of the overdose in Europe; we have 7 000 patients in the LAR programme. Rustic and psychiatry patients are the least satisfied and most demanding patients in the health sector. The size has clear goals and ambitions, the government has the same, and my question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that health businesses provide for a stepping up of efforts towards mentally ill and displaced persons, both in capacity and in quality, in line with Storting's intentions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e476	I must say that I could almost not say it better myself. The review that the representative had shows how comprehensive and clear the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is about the effort to build up the offer for people with drug dependence and with mental health challenges. This applies to the whole range, from lowthreshold services and early interventions in the municipality to those specialised in hospitals. It is an important job for me to ensure that health regions follow this up in practice. I do, and I last had a business meeting with all the health regions this week, where just the follow-up to the golden rule was a central theme. We have also reinforced this rule in 2015, because I was not satisfied with the way it was implemented in 2014 – although it is important to note that the rule was also important in 2014. The waiting time for these patients has decreased and, in particular, the waiting time for people with drug dependence has decreased markedly. We see that health regions and health companies are now working systematically to build up offers, to follow how they comply with this rule, but I was still not satisfied. That is why we have also reinforced this work, and this is a recurring theme in the meetings I have with the health regions, the directors and the leaders there – to make sure that what is our common policy is actually a change for the patients out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e485	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State is not satisfied, and that he is working to make things better. One thing is what we decide in Stortinget and what the government wants. It's not always that reality stands by us. Signals from it worry us that there is actually a slowing down of the number of places in the specialist health services in the field of drugs and psychiatry. An example I find in my own county, Uppland. Last week, the Hospital Inland decided to terminate a 43-year operating agreement with the Fekjær Psychiatric Centre in Hedalen, Valdres. They treat more than 100 young people per year, mainly between 18 and 30 years of age, both inpatient and outpatient settings. Patients come from all over the country, and this is not just a regional offer. They are among the youngest and most demanding patients, often with double diagnosis and trauma. Many of these patients have tried many treatments in the past, and many of them succeed in Spring. They have very good results, and they have long waiting lists. Now they're thrown out in great uncertainty, and they're going against what we're trying to build up. Does the Council of State have any medicine against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e492	I am aware that the Board of the Hospital Inland has authorised the Executive Director to cancel the agreement with the Fekjær Psychiatric Centre. There is an agreement that is now the basis for the operation – it has a two-year period, so this cannot really have an effect until two years. But it is quite clear – and I have taken this up with Health South-East – that the agreement with the Fekjær Psychiatric Centre must be seen in conjunction with the other agreements that are in the field of mental health protection in Health South-East. Health South-East has informed me that it is not relevant to terminate this agreement now, and it is also important that health companies follow up on what are the clear guidance signals in the mission document. It implies the golden rule, but also a clear and clear message that a priority should be given to working with private ideal actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e499	It opens for follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e502	I must unfortunately also send more signals about stepping down to squares. At the Department of Drug Medicine in Health Bergen, they now plan to lay down up to 12 daily places. Outpatient capacity has already been reduced by two settings, about 40 treatment sites. The Department of Drug Medicine in Health Bergen is the prince of its kind in Norway, with both competence and capacity as I would like for the future. They have been among the first to take over municipal tasks associated with LAR distribution, as determined by the State budget for 2014. In addition, they have invested in the new medical specialisation in drug treatment. With these tasks, there was no fresh means, and thus the budget was shattered and followed up on the capacity to treat patients. In particular, the delivery of LAR drugs is an unpredictable cost for healthcare professionals with the current system, where there are no national extradition tariffs. The question is: will the Council assess the introduction of such national tariffs for the supply of LAR drugs and allow healthcare professionals to charge additional charges for outpatient treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e511	The concrete plans in Bergen that Breivik's representative brings up here, I'm not familiar with the status of. In the case of multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, it is clear that sites are to be built. Among other things, we have I ordered the purchase of 200 more treatment sites than was the case in the past. Long-term treatment is also to be increased and, in particular, all health regions are to be offered in therapeutic communities. So it's like this in this area, as in all other areas, that there are also changes, for example. in the field of mental health. It is not that the golden rule implies that a person cannot have a change from daily services to outpatient services to more outpatient services, decentralised, in the district psychiatric centres. It's a development that we professionally want, that is desired by patients, and the golden rule should not stop development. With regard to the specific issue, there is something we have to assess in the Ministry of Health and Welfare now, and on which we have also received more feedback is... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e523	It's time! Karianne O. Heavy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e528	We know that the development of the first years of life and the early establishment of good mental and physical health habits form much of the basis for what the rest of life will be. We know that from the start many kids have to carry a very heavy should, and these are kids that often end up in the statistics later. This is why the Labour Party has said that one of the next major health commitments in Norway must be a new multidisciplinary stepping-up plan for prevention and early intervention for mental health, and especially important is the fact that children and young people, as we know today, fall between two chairs. Does the Minister for Health agree that we should have such a new multidisciplinary escalation plan? And does he agree that we should also have a comprehensive review of all services aimed at children, young people and families, with the aim of improving interaction, division of work and clarification of responsibilities, so that fewer children fall between these chairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e535	Yes, and that work is already well under way by the government. The escalation of the offer in the municipalities is something we have prioritised. Well, I guess we've given up $180 million. kr in the first year, 200 million. kr next year, and until next year again, we propose another 200 million. kr in the growth of the municipalities of the school health service. At the same time, we have allowed money to grow in the supply of mental health, especially for children and young people. In the primary health communication, this is also a central issue, where one of the concrete measures is to legislate for psychological services in the municipalities – a legislative requirement against which the previous government opposed, and in reality terminated that paragraph. Now it's being reintroduced, and we're demanding that municipalities have psychological services. We will also come back with a separate escalation related to the establishment of this service in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e542	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e545	In the dialogue meeting on the forthcoming drug report, organisations in the drug field reiterated the importance of being able to provide drug users with drug-free treatment. The Prime Minister pointed out the importance of LAR, but said at the same time that the pendulum might have turned a little too much towards drug treatment. The Christian People’s Party believes that we must maintain the belief that the individual can benefit from treatment and become drug free, and that there must be greater efforts in treatment areas that aim to achieve abstinence. In the light of the free choice of treatment, and in view of the fact that the rubric is to be given priority there, I ask the Council of State whether he will ensure that drug users who want a drug-free treatment offer are given the opportunity to choose an institution without drug treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e552	Yes, I fully agree with that is important. Many addicts want and have the goal of total drugfreeness, and then they must also have the opportunity to do so in a treatment offer where they feel that it is realistic and part of the objective. That's why it was important what we got into together by increasing the use of the private non-profit treatment institutions, which we have already implemented, which just contribute to more institutions getting agreements and having the opportunity to have a more diverse offer. However, there is no doubt that the introduction of free treatment options will reinforce this, as patients will then be much more able to choose a treatment site based on the profile of the treatment site and the patient’s own wish. It will also strengthen the possibilities of those treatment institutions providing treatment for total drug-freedom — so it is important to follow-up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e561	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e564	The government’s great effort to ensure the prioritisation of mental health, to reintroduce the golden rule, does not prove to be a golden yet, for example from the whole country on the reduction of mental health protection. I have a case from Nord-Trøndelag, where the health services now propose to drop the daily post at the DPS on Kolvereid. I have known that the municipality could take over the offer, to a municipal offer, and they have also been in contact with the department for help, but now one suggests making this decision immediately. My question is, can the Council of State approve what is happening in the North Tributes and on Kolvereid, and what will he do in this matter to secure the offer to the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e571	There is no doubt that the reintroduction of the Golden Rule has had an impact on the prioritisation of both drug and mental health in specialist health services. This is in very clear contrast to the representative's own government policy in this area, namely to remove the golden rule, with the result that we saw a clear depriority of treatment provision, not just in the specialist health service. At the same time, there was a down-priority of this offer in the municipalities when the Senterpartiet was in government. Now that's the opposite trend we're seeing. Not least, one will see that a number of proposals on mental health degradations that I responded to in the Stortingen in the fall never came off, just because one, when the proposals were evaluated in the boards of health companies, that this was contrary to the mission documents. So proposals that were on the table are not implemented in this area. This does not mean, however, that a person not in mental health also needs to have a change of service and provide better services where the residents live. When it comes to the specific example, I have to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e580	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e583	In the case of drug use, the prime task of the Minister of Health is to remove Norway from the European peak in the number of overdose deaths. We know that one of the things that can probably work is if several heavy addicts smoke heroin instead of injecting heroin. Outside the spray room in Oslo, a brochure is regularly distributed, which is part of the municipality of Oslo. supported, telling about the benefits of choosing to smoke. However, when drug addicts enter the injection room, the place where it is possible to take the drug on which they are unfortunately dependent, they are told the opposite, that they are not allowed to smoke, only allowed to inject. It is the Minister of Health who has decided. There is a room – a smoking room – that the Municipality of Oslo has built, which they are not allowed to use. When will the Minister of Health end this futility?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e591	The work of getting heroin addicts to smoke heroin instead of injecting is a work that this government strongly supports. It is part of our national strategy on overdose. That is why we grant money to the Switch campaign, which takes place not only in Oslo — fortunately — but also in the other places where overdose deaths are high, in the reception centres, where users are trained to smoke heroin, they get the equipment they need, and one has also developed methods to teach them how to use the equipment when they smoke heroin. So it's a work that's important and that gives results across the country. In order to extend this to allow one to smoke heroin in the injection room, there would be a further development towards making the injection room a place where legalising the use of illicit drugs. It is a development that I do not want, and therefore it will not be opened up to smoke heroin in injection rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e598	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e601	The Minister of Health and Welfare may stand still. Recently, through the NRK, we became acquainted with a situation in which a man in Asker hired his own nurse to take care of his mother, who was a resident of a nursing home, because the staff was too low at night. It's a sign of what kind of situation we can get in if we don't have enough staff in public care for the elderly. If the care of the elderly is to work well, if we are to be able to do something about the very alarming evidence of human rights violations in Norwegian elderly care provided by the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights this winter, higher staffing at the hospital is the key. In many places today, manning is too low. It becomes particularly serious when important information on manning is kept away from relatives and away from the public debate, as is now the case in Oslo, where the civil parties keep the crew plans of individual departments in commercial hospitals secret, because the commercial hospitals have asked for it. They have simply received an acceptance that the level of personnel is a business secret. So it's not possible for worried relatives to figure out how many people are at work in the department where they're happy to live. This is a practice that is very foreign to what we think otherwise in the welfare state. Think about it, for example. should have been secret how many assistants there are in a kindergarten where we send our children. We believe it is absolutely essential that the commercial actors, to whom the Right has been released in our care for the elderly, also show transparency about what the real manning of each hospital ward is, so that the elderly themselves, the relatives and we politicians can have an informed debate on whether care and the level are good enough. Will the Council of State clean this up and impose transparency on commercial operators as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e616	We want to know more about the quality of municipal health and care services. That is also why the government has proposed and been granted 30 million. kr to a quality register of municipal health and care services. That's what we're doing now, and we're going to get to Stortinget with the necessary legal basis for establishing such a quality register, precisely because the discussion about the quality of these services should be a discussion about more than how much money a grant is, it also has to be a discussion about what is the real, actual quality. Manning is important for quality, but it is also important to nuance — from just counting the number of hands to also becoming more concerned with the wise minds. I am absolutely convinced that some nursing homes, some offers, have too low staffing, especially on weekends and in evening and night hours. But one of the main challenges is that there is too little attention and effort to ensure the competence and quality of the service through just seeing what kind of skills it is at work. Because it is absolutely vital to the quality. I believe that the municipalities must know this, regardless of whether there are municipal or private offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e625	The last thing was a promising signal that Oslo Right hopefully brings with it, but it's not answered the concrete question of what the Council of State will do to end that kind of secret. It is important that the right-hand side's privatisation policy should not go so far as to ensure that senior care staff become a business secret. Let me then go on: Competence is essential, yes, but it is also that it will be impossible to achieve good enough quality if the manning is too low. Four councillors west of Oslo sent letters to the City Council earlier this year with great concern about understaffing the elderly in the capital. They clearly state that ‘in the care of the elderly, the understaffing affects users with full strength’. SV believes it is time for a national standard to ensure the equivalence of care for the elderly, and the question is: Will the Minister of Health and Welfare support such a national standard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e634	We are working on following up what is on the government platform in this area, namely that we should introduce quality requirements for municipal health and care services. The first step is to introduce a legal requirement on what the service of competence should contain, which Audun Lysbakken helped to remove when he was in government. The next thing is to get an overview of what's actually the quality of what we're doing, by establishing a register for this. The third is to set national standards and requirements, and that work is also in progress. Then I perceive that SV is very busy with Oslo and private. It is very important to assume that the private sector accounts for a very small proportion of old age care in Norway. The main quality challenge is in public care for the elderly, and it is important that we do not allow this to become an ideological game about public or private, when we have such major challenges in the public care and care services that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e641	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e644	As far as transparency is concerned, the Minister of Health’s representative was voting against that proposal last year. SV promotes it again, so then there is an opportunity to follow it up. It's that there's enough hands, enough people, to provide care, which is important in the care of the elderly. The government says in its documents that by 2023 there are 28 000 health workers missing, and the Health Authority has surveyed until 2035 and says that there will be a need for 57 000 new health professionals. At that time, it is quite alarming that the Minister of Health is presenting the report on primary health services and does not mention the health professionals in one word. They need more of them, so you need a standard of personnel, you need apprenticeships, and you need jobs that are full-time jobs, so you can recruit people into these jobs. Does the Minister for Health agree with the three points?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e651	Yes, I agree that a significant number of health professionals are needed. One has to raise the status of the profession that we need to get more apprenticeship places, not least in the municipalities – and no, it is not true that health professionals are excluded from the work of the primary health notification. On the contrary, this group is well described in the communication and described as an important professional competence in the municipal care services. We need to have higher skills in the services, both those with vocational training and those with competence. There's probably a difference between this government and the previous government. The previous government was very busy counting heads and talking about caring. I am very concerned that care is linked to quality. Then we also have to think that this is actually a healthcare service for some of our most ill patients, and then we can't ignore that this actually requires a high level of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e656	Niclas Tokerud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e659	The representative Lighthouse took up an important aspect of the commercial actors in health and care. I want to put the search light on another one. Yesterday, the book ‘Professors of Welfare’ was launched, a book that sheds light on how the international group establishes itself within our welfare services, such as: health and care, so to make money on our taxes and move the sums in creative ways to tax havens. The right has also embraced the commercial companies, under the "All Good Forces" tab. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State Höie ensure that international companies providing health and care services also pay their share to the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e669	In the case of municipal health and care services, local authorities decide whether to purchase services from private individuals as well. The rules for this are the same now as under the red-green government. I think it makes sense for municipalities, for example. facilitates free choice of home-based services. For example, this is a case in point. often in the case of older people who experience that when the municipality provides the service, they often get new people home during the week. It's disturbing. There is little connection in the ministry. Some people experience that when they choose private, they get a more stable crew. This is positive for the individual, but it challenges the way we organise the municipal services. One might think differently and learn from some of the private ones. Then, of course, all private operators in Norway should contribute to the community within the rules that apply to everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e678	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e681	Parental care is a key task for municipalities. The supply of our very sickest crippled elderly is extra vulnerable. We have heard about several episodes of elderly people who are being sent back and forth between the institution and hospitals, and about unworthy situations. Several renovations are also reported. More — including the health director – has been concerned about this. I see that in my hometown, Bergen, they have created their own hospital – I call it a transit reception for the elderly who are on their way out of hospital – to avoid the obligation to pay, where one can be in a maximum of two days, I believe. Is this a worthy offering to the sickest of the elderly, with that insecurity one between...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e688	Time's up. Councillor Höie, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e691	...bringing with him?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e696	In the primary health message, we provide answers to the very challenge that the representative raises, that some of our most fragile elderly people are being sent too often back and forth between the municipality and the hospital, that one likes to go to the hospital unnecessary, or not get the follow-up that one should have afterwards. Not least, the last one is a big problem. What I point to as a good solution to this is the establishment of a follow-up team, following a model from the Right-Handled Eidsberg Municipality in Østfold, where one has an employee of his own nurse – who has a clinical specialisation – who, together with a physiotherapist, follows up all elderly and ready-to-print patients when they come home, analyses their health needs and ensures that the municipality follows up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e703	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e706	The cultural spa is a dear and close cultural offer to the elderly. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to have arrangements to ensure a professional cultural life throughout the country. It is not least an important job for professional cultural professionals. The reactions were strong when the government wanted to put down the scheme with the Cultural Spaserstick. In the Workers' Party we are pleased that the cooperation parties saved Spaserstock. Since the government chose not to designate the funds, but let them into the general economy of the county, my question becomes to the Council of State Widvey: How has this worked out in the municipalities where the elderly live?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e711	Firstly, I must correct the representation of the representative. It was never about setting up any arrangements, it was about transferring this to the municipalities, so they have the opportunity to prioritize this in the same way as prioritizing very many other good cultural offerings. What was a compromise in Stortinget has helped make the funds available to the municipalities, and I trust that the municipalities have actually made priorities and maintained the various offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e716	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Health on the same matter. There's a lot of good health in culture, and the heart remembers it forgets. We're going to get old in the country, we hope we're going to be healthy for a long time, and if we go to a nursing home or another institution, there's going to be cultural facilities available. The cultural walking stick is important for the elderly. My follow-up question therefore goes to the Minister of Health: How did he follow up on the fact that the cultural spa is out walking in the institutions throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e725	Having both professional and voluntary efforts in the field of cultural services in the care of the elderly is important. Therefore Stortinget chose to transfer this money to the county councils, so that the municipalities now get the money from there. I think the sense is equally distributed throughout the country, so I think that local politicians too understand the meaning of this, whether they are municipal or municipal. Using culture, using music as therapy is more than entertainment from professional people working in cultural life. It's about a subject of health. Therefore, our follow-up to this has been to give priority to earmarked money for the expansion of the possibility for those who work in health care, to get a professional education in using music as therapy. We know that has good documented effect, not least for people with dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e733	There will be follow-up questions, first Sonja Mandt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e736	My question also goes to the Council of State Höie, on the same topic. We can read on the government’s website that they want to wind up the scheme – as a comment to Widvey’s actual lack of answers to the previous questioner. I would like to remind the Council of State of the great concern that was when the government said it would wind up the scheme, and it cut and the change came into the last year's budget. If it turns out that the offer has deteriorated and worsened, will the government be willing to consider earmarking to ensure that we get a good offer and once again get a good cultural walker stick for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e743	It is important that municipalities also ensure this quality in the municipal care services. It has the great potential, both by applying for the money that the county councils have to give this offer, and not least to use what is the great advantage of the municipalities, namely the close cooperation they have with both cultural life and voluntary sector in their own municipality. The municipalities provide a large proportion of the grants to cultural life in their own municipality today and have all the opportunities to ensure cooperation with local cultural life, to provide and provide services in the municipal care services. At the same time, it is important not to forget that this is also about another important approach, namely that this is part of the health profession, and that approach must be ensured by having the competence to use music as therapy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e750	Kjersti Top - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e753	I'm going to let the Council of State Höie down, because I have a question to the Council of State Widvey about the Spaserstick. I listen to the answer to the original main question, and I thought that the Council of State was in vain, so I really want to repeat the question. Because I guess the government and the government want the cultural walking stick to be successful, and the scheme to be put into effect. I guess so, and then my question is, if a given number shows that the money is not being used, that the supply is being reduced, what will the government do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e760	The government will review at all times the measures that we have in different budget lines, but I would remind you that this scheme has been strengthened in the year's budget. These funds, which became part of the compromise in Stortinget, were transferred to the county council, as the Minister of Health said. The cultural walking stick has been the thief of time. It's not to hide that the way it worked before, it was, with all three different levels of government involved. In addition to the county municipality, more than 300 municipalities spent time and resources writing applications — and not least reports — for some very small grants. With that 30.8 million budget agreement. kr as we did with our cooperation parties, these funds have been transferred to the county municipalities, so that they can distribute the funds efficiently. I feel reasonably confident that they have managed to do that task, but any government must of course at any time assess the means used, whether they are at the time of the purpose for which they are assigned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e769	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e781	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Mr Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 13, from the representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Culture who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e796	This question, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e799	‘The Israeli envoy Mordecai Vanunu married a woman with Norwegian citizenship on Tuesday. Vanunu has previously specifically asked for permission to come to Norway. But since Vanunu is denied travel documents by Israel, he has no legal way of leaving the country. Norway has not previously been willing to print passports to Vanunu without his being on Norwegian soil, and thus the cases have been locked. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree that Vanunu, who has now married a Norwegian woman, can apply for a Norwegian passport from Israel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e811	Mordechai Vanunu has for the longest time completed the prison sentence he was sentenced to. However, his freedom of expression and movement continues to be restricted. He is, among other things, imposed a ban on leaving the country. He is thus subjected to something which may appear as an additional penalty. We encourage Israeli authorities to treat Vanunu in line with human rights. We ask them seriously to consider whether they can also take humanitarian considerations in addition to the minimum human rights requirements. Since Vanunu is grounded, he is initially prevented from leaving Israel, no matter what travel document he may have. Marriage with a Norwegian citizen does not provide a basis for the issue of a Norwegian passport. To get a Norwegian passport, you have to be a Norwegian national. In addition, refugees who have come to Norway as asylum seekers and who have received asylum in Norway can obtain so-called travel certificates for refugees. Foreigners with a residence permit in Norway may apply for a Norwegian passport, but they must be in Norway for such a passport to be issued. A Norwegian foreign station may, on instruction from the UDI, issue a temporary travel certificate for a single journey, a so-called laissez-passer. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is closely following developments in the Mordecai Vanunus case, and we will do so as long as the restrictions on his freedom of speech and movement remain unchanged. It is the Israeli judiciary that has imposed the ban on Vanunu from leaving the country, and also a decision to lift that restriction must be taken by an Israeli court. The government will continue to point out to Israel that Vanunus' rights must not be violated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e824	I thank you for your answer. In 2008 the Official Journal of Bergen found that Vanunu fulfilled the conditions for asylum in Norway. He has the sons of punishment say and has a right to freedom. I would like to refer to a petition signed by 262 Norwegian lawyers, many of them professors and a part of our top experts on foreign law, where they conclude by asking the government to instruct the UDI to provide the Vanunu Norwegian Foreign Pass, that she must order UDI to make a decision on suspension and to make a humanitarian protection assessment and inform Israel about this, in order to press the Israeli state to allow Vanunu to leave the country. He's actually a free man. He has sons of punishment to give information that Israel had nuclear weapons and is an atomic state. Would the government follow the call from the 262 Norwegian jurists?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e831	We have to assume here that what prevents Vanunus from leaving is the Israeli sentence against him, which imposes strict travel restrictions. Vanunu is not allowed to pass, he is not allowed to travel abroad. Nor can he approach airports, borders or port facilities. Vanunu has not requested Norwegian assistance in recent years. If Vanunu or his Norwegian wife wants our assistance, we will consider concretely whether and how we can help. Although Vanunu is now married to a Norwegian citizen, we must be aware that what Norway can accomplish is limited, in addition to appealing to Israeli authorities to take human considerations. Should there be a possible request for political asylum, it would have to be dealt with by the UDI in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e838	I thank you again for the answer, which I experience gives a small opening so that you will see carefully about this matter if an application arrives. Such an application was not granted in the past. I believe that giving asylum or printing emergency passports – or both, preferably – to Vanunu will be a strong expression of a human rights position from the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian State and could dispel international attention. Every country occupied with human rights has a responsibility in this matter, including Norway. Because Vanunu has made marriages with a Norwegian citizen, see it in a different light, even if one must agree in the judgements of the Council of State purely legally. Instead of justifying why Norway doesn't have to act, I encourage the government to make a difference in this matter by demonstrating in action that a take-up in favor of human rights and global human interests is linked to nuclear weapons. Does the Council see that Norway can make a difference here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e847	Our approach to this matter is the same as the previous government had, namely that we follow the matter closely. We encourage Israeli authorities to treat Vanunu in line with human rights. It's a very clear Norwegian line. In addition to that, we will decide on Norwegian measures if we were to be asked by Vanunu or his wife, or if other conditions would warrant it. But it is also important to be aware, given the political context in Israel, that an assessment by the Norwegian side of what we are going to do must take into account what will be wise in order to achieve a practical outcome that best caters for the humanitarian concerns in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e858	«Agricultural industry in the fisheries sector is struggling to get full-year jobs, much because of this. lack of raw material year-round. The 70 pst advance guarantee system. the entry has now been raised. This means that fishers/rearlayer may have to slaughter their fish before. liquidity considerations. The next season may be the consequence that the quantity of cod live is significantly reduced. Can the Council of State promise that this guarantee will be reinstated as a contribution to several coastal all-year work places?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e865	The guarantee agreement of the Gdańsk representative Heggø questions, was launched in the winter of 2009 as an exceptional measure during the financial crisis. The agreement between Norway’s Råfisklag and Innovation Norway was and has always been meant to be a temporary arrangement. Nevertheless, it lasted for five winter seasons. The scheme increased the credit time for purchasers from 14 to 30 days and was important in the time of the financial crisis and in the years when access to capital was a critical factor. That period is now more normalised, so the assumptions for the plan are no longer present. It is therefore not appropriate to reintroduce the guarantee scheme at this stage. The winter season feedback also shows that the turnover has gone smoothly, even though the scheme is now phased out. Then it is that in recent years, within the guarantee agreement, Norway’s raw fish teams have chosen to set up a separate, smaller framework for operators in the live storage of cod. Livestock storage means that fish are gently caught and stored alive in a marshalling stock until they are slaughtered and sold. However, this scheme has been limited in use and the Norwegian fleet of raw fish has chosen, on its own basis and on its own assessment, not to continue the separate guarantee scheme in winter 2015. However, quantities for live storage have not been reduced as a result. The figures show that the amount of live storage has not fallen in 2015, rather on the contrary. Every week 18 in 2015 there are slightly more than 4000 tonnes delivered to live storage, compared to approx. 2800 tonnes in 2014, when that guarantee scheme existed. The government shares Heggø's desire for several all-year jobs along the coast. But that problem and that challenge must be solved through other instruments. I would like to remind you that maintaining a system that was intended for a financial crisis can have unfortunate consequences for industry and help to counteract the necessary market adaptations in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e878	It was a clear answer; it was a clear no. I'll take it with me. But we're both going to be happy that the guarantee scheme has not been used, because it should only lie there in case it doesn't go well. But the quota bonus is, as the minister has said, something that one gets, among other things. in the case of live storage of fish. This arrangement is very controversial among fishermen. Will the Minister change practice or take action, so that one takes this quota from the top of the total quota, and not like one does today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e885	For approx. A year ago, I presented a strategy for the live storage of fish. This strategy aims to contribute to increased value creation in the cod sector by streamlining the supply of fresh cod and improving the quality of the raw material, but also by developing new technologies and more knowledge in this area, because we believe that it has a significant potential if we can live-storage more of the cod and contribute to giving industry access to raw material even after this great winter season. As regards the quota bonus, in this strategy, we have said that today's quota bonus system is going to be a permanent one in 2017. I stand by that, but I have, as the representative Heggø also refers to, registered that questions are asked about the use of these types of bonuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e892	In order to get full-year work places, we are certain that it is the raw material supply around the year that is decisive. I think we're both also some that the live storage of cod is not enough to get full-year work places. But what other concrete measures can the Minister for Fisheries come with to put in place all year round jobs, because I assume that the toolbox is not completely empty?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e897	Now we have just completed the hearing of the Tveterås Committee, and before Christmas I will present a big message on the seafood industry in Norway. Ensuring stable, full-yearly, safe jobs is actually bid no. one in the Storing Message. This means that we are going to discuss all possible possible measures that can help us achieve a more streamlined access to raw materials and that we can secure this industry in Norway in the future. The fact is that a lot of companies today are really struggling to keep their heads above the water, and that's a situation we can't live with. I would also like to say that there was a recording of whether it is possible to combine white fish and the processing of salmon, for example. I think that is one of the measures that we have to look at and persecute, and what might prevent us from getting to that kind of combined processing. I think that, in fact, quite a lot of places could help solve some of the raw material problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e908	‘The manufacturing industry consists of a number of enterprises within, inter alia: furniture, textiles, electrical products and construction products. Industry has a large potential for further development and could play an important role as part of the ‘green shift’. On 12 March 2015, Norwegian Industry launched a national strategy for the development of the finished product industry, including: points out the need to establish new programmes in the instrument in order to increase the competitiveness of enterprises in the industry. Will the Council of State follow up this strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e915	The finished product industry is an important industrial sector for Norway and, as the Norwegian industry points out, it has some characteristics that distinguish it from other industries. So, first Friday, I will meet with the Norwegian Industry and just discuss the strategy they have put forward. As demonstrated by the government platform, there has been a need to review the innovation instrument. As we know, we have a number of programmes and schemes to promote innovation and industrial research. But we don't know enough about the effects. This review is extensive, and during the year I will receive three interim reports. In further work, it becomes important for us to give priority to the instruments that have the highest innovation impact. In parallel with this work, we have focused on nutrient research. We give priority to nationwide programmes, which can be applied for to a large extent, regardless of the industry in which they are located. By making changes in tax policy, focusing on industrial research and simplifying business rules, we are facilitating growth and increased value creation. The Norwegian industry’s proposals partly overlap with schemes already existing at Innovation Norway today. Innovation Norway offers, inter alia: design and product development, export, internationalisation and innovation programmes. These programmes are also open to enterprises from the finished product industry. As far as 2015 is concerned, loans to this industry around 10 pst. of the total volume of lending by Innovation Norway. The schemes are neither regional nor industrial. We have been concerned that we have wide-ranging structured programmes without any thematic constraints. We're also concerned that the review we're doing will help further develop Innovation Norway into a more efficient tool operator, but I look forward to discussing this strategy with Norwegian Industry on Friday, and then of course we'll follow up on the recordings we're getting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e930	I thank you for your answer. I think there are a lot of people who don't know the Norwegian manufacturing industry. It actually represents 8 000 enterprises and 60000 employees. Through this strategy, industry expresses the great potential for further development if a cooperation project between the country and the enterprises is to be established. The industry proposes to implement a four-programming initiative under the auspices of Innovation Norway. They also believe that it will produce a catalyst effect, and a state investment will actually trigger three times as much from industry. Does the Minister see the potential for a development of the Norwegian finished product industry to make an important contribution to securing and further developing the Norwegian mainland industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e937	We are at a time when Norway needs more bones to stand on. This is definitely an industry that has potential, and I've had more meetings with the industry. We have a number of arrangements today, which we are now reviewing to see if they have the effect we want. Which improvements we're going to make, I'm going to have to come back to. But there is no doubt that we are going to engage in dialogue with the industry – we are – and Norwegian Industry will be allowed to present its strategy on Friday. Then we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e944	I thank you again for the answer. It is positive that the Council of State will engage in dialogue with Norwegian Industry. During the launch I was present at, the representatives Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen from the Right and Øyvind Korsberg from the Progress Party expressed that this was a proposal that was a line-up for the government. Therefore, I might have expected that something could already have happened about this in the revised national budget. Industry is aware that there is a gap in the instrumentation and that the current instruments do not hit the industry. The programme proposed needs to be adapted and further developed to a system in Innovation Norway. Will the Council of State ask Innovation Norway to start an investigation into how these programmes can be adapted?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e953	Our starting point is a review to look at the innovation effect. It's a little surprising that the resources we've been using over the years have not been measured properly. Now we're doing a very thorough job, and based on the three interim reports I'm going to get this year, we're going to make the necessary changes. So I can't confirm or deny that it's a hole. I can see that this industry uses schemes that exist in Innovation Norway, but if they can be improved, we simply have to get back to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e962	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘In the West we now have a situation of increasing unemployment, especially due to oil and offshore cuts. Then it is important to have an active enterprise policy that can stimulate a new type of activity as part of the ‘green shift’. The Council of State will take the initiative to review legislation and the instrument of shipbuilding in order to stimulate the construction of several ships in Norway, for example: fishing boats, wellboats, ferries and boats prepared for wind power generation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e971	The fall in the oil price and lower activity in the petroleum sector have serious consequences for oil and gas related industries. These are important industries, which account for a high proportion of employment in Norway, and especially along the coast. At the same time, I note that, fortunately, the rise in unemployment is somewhat less than you can get the impression. This may also indicate that the affected groups are in demand of labour, and that many have therefore been given a new job. In order to contribute to the greater ability of enterprises to maintain the link with posted workers, the Government of the revised National Budget for 2015 submitted proposals to reduce the period during which an enterprise has to pay wages to posted workers from 20 to 10 days. The period during which an employee can receive a daily allowance during the period of leave, we propose to increase from 26 to 30 weeks. On Friday, I presented the government's maritime strategy. Here we propose a number of concrete measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian maritime industry. Already on the same day that I presented the strategy, we received alerts about a 20's ship that will be flagged into NIS. We also announced changes to the ferry tendering regime, so that we can apply low- and zero-emission solutions, which contributes to innovation. Our goal is to maintain and further develop a strong maritime industry in Norway. Norwegian shipping companies with local anchoring are a good guarantee of activity at Norwegian shipyards and in the supplier industry. We have made changes to GIEK's statutes, so that the scheme becomes more similar to what private banks offer. This amendment will allow the yards to conclude several contracts for the construction of ships in Norway. Last night I met a representative at Nor-Shipping, who confirmed that their yard would use the modified arrangement to make a decision on the construction of ships. So, as I also said to the representative of Omland, we are now reviewing the state instrument. In the light of this work, it is natural to look at how we can better organise both general and more industry-specific innovation programmes. This industry is undergoing conversion and change. It is not the exception for this industry – that is the general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e984	I thank you for your answer. It's a demanding situation we're facing in terms of unemployment, no matter what the Council of State says. We have to take on board that we have to change and build up new skills, so that the yards are also able to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. With regard to the legislation and the permitting system, we've been prepared to do the grips much faster than the government, so I'm very happy that someone comes with it. But as far as the maritime strategy is concerned, I would also like to challenge the Council of State: what is the specific situation of the offshore industry? What do we do with regulations relating to the possibilities for window construction and, where appropriate, new types of boat construction, for which it is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e993	I'm not saying that the situation is not serious – it's serious, and for all those affected, it's very serious. What I tried to say is that maritime nutrition is undergoing a conversion. It's been doing that for hundreds of years. What we also get confirmed when we talk to the industry is that they have to go through this. It is right now that they are aiming at developing new products and technologies, which are designed to make us competitive internationally. Then it is important to have maritime competence, which we facilitated to strengthen, on Friday. Nutritional research, which we have strengthened through all budgets, is important at the latest in the revised national budget. So we're making arrangements to help with the conversion, and that's going to help the companies make the conversion faster than we had hoped. As regards the offshore industry, the representative probably also knows that there has been overcapacity in the fleet. It has to come down, and it's going to contribute to this situation. But the industry doesn't sit still, it develops new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1000	As can be seen from the first question I asked, we want to have a review of the legislation to look at what kind of opportunities you have to build ferries and boats that are adapted to wind power development, etc., in the continuation. What kind of schemes do you think you can be involved in building up? What about the arrangement of the shipping tax system, offshore versus wind? How do you go now in terms of tenders, to stimulate that we actually get the ferries built here in the country versus Turkey? And not least with regard to the conversion we need to have on competence: the government has, of course, changed the legislation of the permitting arrangements, but not followed up particularly actively with regard to Nav. How, in a permitting situation, do you relate to that competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1005	I mentioned very specific changes in GIEK, which means that decisions are taken this week other than what was done earlier in our building in Norway. So, in concrete terms, there's been changes there. We also give concrete notice of changes to the tendering regime, which means that the State should contribute to innovation, as it did when building the battery ferry «Ampere». This is a way of using our purchasing power to contribute to innovation and development. Combined with that, we are strengthening the schemes that the yards can apply for in concrete terms in order to make a financial contribution to the implementation of the schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1014	My question is: ‘The ideal Children’s Protection Forum demonstrates in an opinion that the new offer to be made for the purchase of child protection services will not provide sufficient protection for the ideals because competition coincides in time with open competition. In addition, it is said that fewer places will be purchased and that the price will be more focused than before. Are the criteria to which the Ideal Children's Protection Forum refers, in accordance with the leadership of the State Council, given for the implementation of the competitive tendering procedure?»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1023	Ideal actors are an important partner in the provision of child protection services. Ideal actors have a high level of competence and a high level of commitment and, together with private commercial and public actors, contribute to the current provision of child protection facilities adapted to the needs of children. Bufdir is now in the beginning of new acquisitions of child-restraint facilities, with contracts from 1 April 2016. The acquisition will be carried out in two competitions, one reserved for non-profit actors and the other open to both commercial and non-profit actors. This is in line with Stortingen’s request decision No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Contracts in the protected competition are awarded prior to the start of negotiations in the open competition. The ideals can participate in both calls. The agreements entered into in competition reserved for non-profit institutions serving households will contain guarantees of purchase and delivery, which are guarantees for fixed locations. In competition aimed at both commercial and non-profit actors, framework agreements will be published without a purchase guarantee. In doing so, the ideals will have a significant advantage over the commercial ones. My assessment is that this provides a good and adequate protection of competition reserved for non-profit actors. In the current contract period, which was concluded in two rounds this winter, 202 places have been agreed. This is an increase from 182 places. A total of 12 organisations have now been allocated to 17 different institutions. However, there is no guarantee that the number of places held by non-profit actors in the protection of children will be at the current level. It is related to the fact that there have been changes in several significant circumstances in recent years that will affect the need for institutional venues in the next contractual period. As the representative of Aasrud is also aware, there has been a turnaround from the use of institutions to foster homes, which has also led to a decrease in the need for institutions. This is also expected to continue, as a result of testing in selected municipalities, which are given greater financial responsibility and responsibility for selecting actions for individual children. The experience gained from the current period with the framework agreements we have had also shows that the agreements have had a significantly greater scope than the need warrants. All these conditions could affect the sector’s framework conditions in the coming period. As a basis for the next contract period, the Directorate will now review a more systematic and accurate assessment of the need than that underlying the current period. I'm very concerned that children and young people will get the help they need, and quality will be a crucial requirement in the acquisitions we're going to make in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1044	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased to hear that she does not agree with the majority in Stortinget, as when we dealt with document 8:85 S in Innst. 31 S for 2014–2015 13 November last year, said we ‘remarks that the tender currently announced is shorter than normal in order to have a common expiry date with other private child protection institutions. This allows a joint bidding round for non-profit-making and private commercials.»; I am pleased that the Council of State now confirms that she does not add up to such a bidding round. But I want to ask the Council of State about something that the Council of State says in its answer. It is a matter of wishing to enter into framework agreements with the ideals, without purchase guarantees. What obligation do the ideals then assume? And what guarantee is there that you can operate when you have no purchase guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1056	I just want to make it clear that now that we have a joint bid that goes out to next year, we will see the entire portfolio in context and also look at what needs we have. It's an important job. However, the acquisition will be made through two competitions, one reserved for non-profit actors and the other open to both non-profit and commercial players. Then I would like to stress that the contracts that were first awarded in the protected competition are contracts that contain purchase and delivery guarantees or that are also called fixed prices, while the second call will be for framework contracts without a purchase guarantee, as it is today. This will give ideals an advantage by ensuring that they have a predictability of their operations by ensuring that the contracts concluded in the protected competition contain guarantees of purchase and delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1063	I thank you again for the answer. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify how it will focus on prices in those tenders, because according to the information provided to the Ideal Children's Protection Forum, more emphasis has been given to prices than in the past, which will be demanding for many non-profit actors. The Council of States may confirm that no changes are made to the convergence of prices, which has previously counted 60 pst. by the criteria, in determining who receives a tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1070	With regard to the figures in the letter from the Ideal Children's Protection Forum, neither the Directorate nor the Department recognize themselves in that description. I would like to stress that Bufetat works systematically with quality development. They have introduced quality standards and the provision of children is increasingly adapted to the different target groups, and the same quality requirements are now being imposed in the areas of private and state institutions. Let me give you an example: today, it's a requirement for state institutions to have a school manager. It is natural that the requirement is also made for the private, because it is important for the follow-up of the individual child. We have also established meeting venues where the National Programme Committee and non-profit and commercial actors are involved with Bufdir and discuss developments in quality. In the tendering process that Bufdir is now launching, we want to focus on having a higher quality than the basic requirement in the choice of offers. Quality is going to be at the bottom, and I can't stand to see that the price will be more important than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1081	This question, from Ruth Grung to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Karianne O. Heavy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1084	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘2015 is the international brain year. Brain disease affects one in three, and many suffer from severe chronic diseases. Neurological diseases require more resources than cancer and cardiovascular diseases combined. It is therefore a paradox that it is precisely in the brain year that Nevroplan 2015 ends without a new plan. The NevroNor Research Council concludes, although new knowledge has given quality of life to new patient groups. What will the Council of State do to strengthen the neurofield of research, treatment, rehabilitation and prevention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1093	The development of good services for people with neurological damage and disease continues even if Nevroplan 2015 ends. The resources of user organisations have continued in 2015 and funds have been allocated to evaluate this grant scheme. The other funding for the Nevroplan has been transferred to municipal competence and innovation grants to help strengthen rehabilitation and activity actions. We should also continue to work to ensure a professionally strong health and care service, which also focuses on the prevention of injuries and diseases. As part of this, we are making our own plan for recruitment, empowerment and professional development for the municipal health and care service, Competencelift 2020. In the primary health message, we alert more attention to users with high and complex needs. Among other things, we will develop teams that will strengthen the offer to this group. Teams shall be managed by a coordinator coordinating the supply across professional groups and levels. NevroNor will end in 2015 and the funding and priorities of the programme will be continued in two new programmes in the Research Council, starting in 2016. One programme focuses on better treatment and diagnostics and one on prevention and public health. The programmes follow several health research programmes and NevroNor, and the Ministry is the main source of funding. Health regions have established a national research network to strengthen research and cooperation. According to the Research Council, they finance neurological research with approx. 50 million. kr per year. There are also many centres for excellent research in neuroscience. Norway participates in the pan-European programme Neurodegenerative Disease Research. This cooperation helps to strengthen national neuroscience research in an international perspective. Norwegian research communities have participated in seven out of eight calls in this programme, and it is a Norwegian environment that leads one of them. The joint programme outlines how European research efforts can be used effectively to improve prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for patients with neurodegenerative disorders. The Ministry of Health and Health has earmarked 9 million. kr to the Joint Programme in 2015. Many people with neurological damage and diseases have a long-standing need for health and care services. By strengthening competence and research and by a structured and holistic approach, we will contribute to achieving the objective of a healthcare service where, in particular, the needs of the user and patient are put at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1108	Thanks for the answer. Research and development are constantly finding new treatments that provide completely new opportunities for people suffering from severe disease and/or damage to the nervous system. Some patients have been given a whole new life when new technologies and new treatments are in use. Examples of this can be the treatment of acute strokes with blood clots and new and effective agents for MS. Such treatment options need to be researched, they need to be used, and they also need to be exploited in Norway. We believe there is now a need for a new plan for this. But do I perceive the Council of State correctly when he says that he will not contribute to a new neuroplan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1113	We've had a neuroplan that ends at the time planned, but that doesn't mean that the work ends for that reason. As I explained in my answer, much of the work is being carried on and reinforced. Not least, part of the experience gained in the context of Nevroplan 2015 is now being taken into account in the development of services, such as: do so in the context of the primary health notification. For it is the impact of this planning on the individual patient outside that is crucial to quality. Therefore, a frequent implementation of plans in different areas with a time-limit and follow-up of the results of the plans afterwards. For example, when it comes to the way a person treats a stroke, it's very important not only to get knowledge of how to do it, but actually to get it implemented, so that knowledge changes the way we treat patients. That's why we're now introducing our own brainstroke package, just to make sure that knowledge is also out of practice in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1118	The undersigned also has a proposal on how this work can be continued. The Brain Council is currently an umbrella organisation for a total of 32 patient organisations, or patient associations. It is trade union associations and research networks that are also part of the Brain Council. All of these work with nervous system diseases and coordinate the work of this large disease group. My proposal on how to continue the work on neurological diseases is that the Brain Council can have the opportunity to promote its important work and contribute unique and pooling competences through the provision of support through the State budget. Will the Council of State contribute to the entry of the Brain Council into the State budget for 2016 and to the provision of a earmarked grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1123	What's going on in the 2016 state budget, I think the representative knows I can't say anything about today, even if I understand the question. Then we have in the Ministry of Health and Care, in political direction, direct contact with the Brain Council and also discuss with them how we should follow up this work further. Norway has also met the large organisations working within the Brain Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1132	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The revised national budget shall notify a comprehensive reorganisation of health management as from 1 January 2016. The working party supports a thorough and critical review of the use of resources in health management. Over time, we have seen the growth of health bureaucracies, and it is important that state agencies are also located outside the capital. However, extensive conversions should be investigated. Employees of the relevant bodies react to a lack of process and knowledge. Can the Council of State explain the process so far?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1141	The Ministry of Health and Welfare has been asking about the organisation of the Central Health Administration for evaluation since 2014 in line with the Government Declaration’s simplification and red tape objectives. A full review of today's organisation in the ICT field was announced in my hospital speech as early as January 2014. The Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health have been involved in defining grey areas between the two levels. In addition, the Directorate-General for Health has carried out an investigation into the organisation of the ICT field on behalf of the Ministry. With regard to the organisation of underlying establishments, the Ministry itself has carried out work on changes in the structure of its activities. Information on the process has been provided to the departments and departments concerned. They have also provided input that has been relevant to the Ministry’s assessment of the changes needed to avoid duplication of work, to make better use of resources and to establish more user-oriented management. Following the decision in the revised national budget, the Ministry has held separate meetings with the departments concerned by the reorganisation and sent a letter of assignment on what will happen. The budgets have now set up their own projects, and they are themselves responsible for implementing amendments decisions. The time limit for the proposal for the resolution of the mission shall be 1 November 2015. The ministry follows the process closely, and in months to come there shall be coordination meetings with all the departments concerned. Organisational changes are demanding. I am very concerned that we have a good dialogue with the employees about the changes to be made and about the rights of employees in the conversion process. A special agreement on instruments of conversion has been concluded in that country. The Ministry of Health and Health will take this into account in the further work on organisational changes in which employees have to move. The Ministry has had information meetings with trustees and employers on the preparation of participation agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1156	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand from him that both the Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute and the Department have had good processes. I also take note that he has reported on this before, and as I said, the Labour Party does not disagree with such a review. We think it's a little strange that you have so little time. We think it is strange that you have not had conversations or experiments with e.g. the organisations of employees, with the agencies concerned, and that no thorough impact assessment has been carried out. We can't see that's happened. So I ask the Council of State: does he not think it is legally short when this is to be adopted in the revised national budget and that regulations should be consulted after the budget has been presented in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1165	No, I'm impatient to get results in this area. I would also like to remind the representative Knutsen that I have met in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge in connection with the follow-up to the implementation of the establishment of the notification system, where the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge was also very concerned with the lack of government governance and follow-up of important ICT initiatives in the health sector. What we are doing now is just completing the work I already announced at the time that we were doing, namely looking at a stronger national governance of the field of health. We want that in place from 1 January 2016. We believe that we have a good knowledge base for the changes we propose, and then we also undertake to involve the employees in these change processes within the framework and agreements that are common in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1172	Then I'd like to say that a directorate for e-health we agree on. We've had a long process on that, so that's not really what I'm thinking about. I think that the National Health Knowledge Centre should be divided into two – go under two other departments, that SIRUS should no longer be an independent vote, and that the State's radiation protection should no longer be a separate unit. It is a little difficult for us in the opposition to see what is the purpose and meaning of this, and I ask again: will the Council of State come to the Stortinge with a proper presentation and an impact assessment of the meaning of what is now happening? It might seem a little bit random.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1179	No, it's not random. There is a grubbing-up in the grey zones between these different areas — a clean cultivation of tasks. There are authority tasks; there are tasks involved in developing guidelines — tasks that are now clearly placed in the Directorate, while producing the knowledge base both for the work of the Directorate but also for policy decisions is being brought together in the Institute for Public Health. It's also a goal for us to reduce the number of underlying agencies. So we also go from 15 to 11. Although we're creating a new one, the sum is going to be smaller. This is also done to reduce unnecessary resources for bureaucracy. We're also investigating the creation of a separate model related to having common administrative functions between the different units. It is a good tradition that the way in which an organizer organises underlying agencies is a responsibility of the government, and then the Stortinget will be involved in the matters where the Stortinget needs to contribute to legislative changes, budgeting, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1192	‘In the context of the financial crisis in 2009, it was opened up to the temporary use of intra-corporate training by firms affected by market failures for a duration of up to 26 weeks. In today's situation, where the unemployment rate is the highest in ten years, why does the government not propose the same thing now?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1199	Firstly, it is still possible today to use intra-corporate training, according to the regulations. The general rule is up to 13 weeks, and this may also be considered in the individual case to be longer. The ETA itself assesses on a case-by-case basis whether to go beyond the 13 weeks. There may also be rolling arrangements between employees under today's rules, so that you can operate for longer than the 13-week period. So that measure exists, that measure is there, and it's used. But so far this year it has been used very little. There have been 64 participants on average per month until April. Then there's been something growing in recent times, naturally, because we've also seen a moderate increase in unemployment. The increase we made in the revised national budget, as proposed by the government, also makes it possible to increase the use of the action requested by the representative Andersen. I would also like to remind you that what has been a significant wish – I got feedback from both the business community and the social partners on what measures should be taken now, based on the situation in which one is in – has been more active on the road and the road, doing something about the framework conditions of business by reducing the tax burden, by reversing the rules on leave and increasing the number of places of action. All of these four areas, which the parties and industry have also asked for, have provided this government with: 1 000 more sites for action, the law on permitting has been reversed, the tax pressure has been reduced, and we are building more roads and roads than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1206	Thanks for the answer. I am familiar with the fact that company internal training is still available. Before it was very activated in 2009, it was almost unused, and then it was put into use because of the economic situation. It's really the core question here. In normal circumstances, intra-corporate training can only be used for business conversion needs. So that means that you can't use it in the context of a general bad economic situation. It was approved by the then government as acceptable under the EEA Agreement because we defined it as a cyclical situation and that it would be a short period of time. I would ask the Council of State to clarify whether he would facilitate the use of this as a cyclical tool, which was the main part of my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1213	The representative, Andersen, probably knows it very well from when he himself was appointed Minister of Labour, and now proposes what he himself proposed as Minister of Labour when it came to the 26-week rule. However, the situation in the labour market and in the business world was slightly different from that in the past. Now it's really moving towards the oil-related industries. I think it's important to follow developments in how this is happening in industries, and I see that it's starting to spread in industries other than the oil industry. We will follow up on the use of the training measure, but I will only assess it when the demand for the action begins to come. I see no need to use it now, and to change it now, when the demand for that solution is not there, but has been in completely different areas. Should that demand come, of course, I will sit down and consider whether to make changes with regard to cyclical industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1218	Here, perhaps, some of the fundamental difference in thinking about action against increasing unemployment emerges – that one has to wait and see what is happening, and what demand is coming, while the strategy at the time, in 2009, was not based on demand, but because of the active attitude of the government to prevent increased unemployment, as one of the very many instruments. We are now talking about a very special tool, but that worked, and that can be very good in a situation where there are very big challenges in some of the sectors of the Norwegian economy. The last time was the challenge – to put it simply – that the carpenters were available, the construction industry was hit. Then this was an instrument that struck well. This time, we also need to choose instruments — much more than this, but also this means of action — to provide an offer to those who want to avoid a low economic cycle leading to a steady and increasing unemployment. This is why we recommend using it, among many other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1225	Maybe there's a difference in the way you think about it from this government to previous governments. I think it is important to take action on the basis of the areas requested by the social partners and by the business community – in order to curb increased unemployment, to convert, to make business and jobs more profitable, to facilitate the conversion and creation of new jobs. I do not know if it is right – if that is how to understand that Andersen’s representative believes it – that more resources should be put into action now, because it was proposed in 2009, which is not requested. I ask questions about that. Then I think it is better to use the resources towards what is being asked. In the revised national budget, we have strengthened the appropriations in this area, which means that this measure can actually be used more, so it is also an opening for increased demand for it, if it wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1236	‘Employment spokesperson in the Progress Party, Erlend Wiborg, wrote in Dagbladet on 21 May that ‘the labour market situation in Norway remains well compared with most other countries. Therefore, it is not appropriate to give full gas, even if some populist voices in the opposition ask for it’. Is the Council of State in agreement with this statement, and therefore in that more measures to combat unemployment are not necessary, or is this even a case of a progressive party that believes one thing in government and something else in the Storting?»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1243	Firstly, I agree with the representative Wiborg, and I believe that the questioner is also, that the labour market situation in Norway is good compared to other countries. We're gonna be happy for that. Then it is also about doing that we work every day to make sure that we can have a good labour market situation in Norway, which addresses Norwegian conditions, which tackles the Norwegian challenges. It's what this government has focused on; it's what this government has been working for every day to get better action for. I believe that it makes sense to monitor developments in the labour market situation and adjust counter-cyclical policies according to the actual situation as it develops. It has always been tricked, and will also in the future be tricked. That is why this government, as I also said to the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has come up with measures that have been requested and proposed by the social partners: 1000 more places of action, reversal of the rules of leave, down the tax burden, more road and path – which make it more profitable for business. I can't see there's any contradiction between me and the representative Wiborg on this. You have to adjust the speed according to the situation and after what you drive on, and that's what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1252	It's interesting to see the right council trying to make gold out of graystone. It should then only be lacking that the government reversed its own restraints in the permitting rules in the situation that we are now in. When it comes to the bet on labour market measures: well, it starts now, after the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, but it is still too weak, according to the Labour Party's view. And more temporary jobs, which is the Minister of Labour's great reputation, are no longer available for work. Are there other measures waiting from the government now when we see that the situation in the labour market is not improving?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1259	We follow developments closely and continuously, have good dialogue with the social partners, have good dialogue with the business community, and discuss what concrete measures are needed to meet the situation we are facing. It is a situation, and measures we have taken, as I have explained, and we will certainly also come up with new measures when the situation so requires. What measures have to be taken then, I will not respond to now, because it is depending on the types of industries facing challenges, the types of problems we are actually facing, and then the measures must also be adapted accordingly. Then I register that the representative Holen Bjørdal says that several temporary jobs do not allow us to get more people to work. Now it is not that this proposal has yet been implemented. It will be launched on 1 July. I believe that it can be a good springboard for many people who are out of work, to get into work. I think it makes sense, instead of standing on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1266	Thanks for the answer. On Saturday, VG could show that the government will soon be back to work when it comes to creating new jobs in Norway. The growth rate in the economy is halved, and there are 24 000 more unemployed now than when the government took over. We can all be certain that it is not the government's fault that the oil price goes down, but it is the government's responsibility to take action to counteract the consequences of it. And then I react a little bit when Eriksson says to the same newspaper that there is no reason to draw a crisis picture. I doubt that the many thousand unemployed are very impressed by such a wait-and-see attitude. How high must the unemployment rate be before Eriksson will put the necessary measures in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1275	First of all, it's not right not to create new jobs. We have 8 000 more new jobs. However, the increase in employment has unfortunately stopped – the increase has stopped. Then there's a reason why the employment rate goes down, and that's because many non-residents are now going home, and that more people are going over to retirement. And if the Workers' Party believes that, in order to maintain the employment rate, it should have kept the foreigners unemployed, here – instead of going to Europe to get a new job – and had them in Norwegian social security schemes, I disagree with the Workers' Party in it. I also disagree if you would have refused to move to an old age pension. I believe that there is no basis for drawing a crisis picture with a unemployment rate of 2.7 pst. At the same time, however, it is important to have an understanding of the uncertainty, the lump of stomachs, that very many employees around Norway today feel about: the uncertainty surrounding their workplace. That is why this government is also taking action, and that is why this government has taken many measures, and that is why we are following developments carefully and are prepared to take new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1289	‘The Council of State has previously stated that infringement of individuals motivated by religious anchoring will be seen as a crime of hatred. The undersigned has received several enquiries on matters in which converts have been subjected to harassment, assault and killing threats because of their new faith. The challenge is to get to report, and there are little statistics. But everything from pastors, bishop and PST boss is worried. What can the Council of State do to raise more issues and ensure protection for converts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1296	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Roppstad, for the question. The government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism provides very clear leadership for combating hate-motivated crime. The police directorate’s release note for the police and officers’ seat in 2015 also builds up under this. At the same time, the Riksadvokat's 2015 objective and priority letter states that hate crime should have a central, nationwide priority in the state attorney's offices and in the police districts. The close police reform – which has now been agreed on, including: The Christian People’s Party is an important player – it will also aim to strengthen the professional environments of the various police districts and cooperation between the police and the municipalities. In this way, the reform of the police will also help to strengthen the fight against hate crime. There is a lot of important work in the police against hate crime. But since the representative first of all addresses the question of hate crime targeting converts, I would like to point out that the threshold for reporting that kind of hate crime against converts does not have to be higher than the threshold for reporting other types of hate crime. This can be challenging. We have – as the representative Ropstad also mentioned in his question – a rather subtle basis of knowledge to draw some clear conclusions. Some of the reasons may be that there are relatively few reviews in such cases, on which the representative was also involved. It is also natural that the Church will play an important role in supporting those who are exposed to such crime, and also help to create security that going to the police in Norway with a report will often be something quite different than going to the police in their country of origin with a report. To create that security, I think the Church too will have an important role to play in. In addition, the police take this kind of crime seriously, but they depend on the report to do the job they're going to do. Then I want to mention some of the projects that are under way by the police. Oslo Police District has expanded its specialist group at the Manglerud Police Station. It is specialised in the knowledge and competence of hate crime. The first judgment came on 19 March 2015, after a case that this newly created Hate Crime Group had brought to justice. There was a man of 57 years who was convicted of hate crime. The Police Directorate also publishes annual reports on the development of hate crime in Norway. In May 2015, Oslo Police District developed its own guide on how to apply the hate crime clause of the Criminal Code. Good use and registration under the hate crime clause of the Penal Code help to ensure the quality of police investigations in these kinds of cases, while signaling trust and strengthening citizens’ willingness to report hate crime. More things in the light also provide a lower level of darkness and a better understanding of the actual crime in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1313	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I am very pleased that he is clear that there should not be a high threshold to report. That is why I think it is important that there is a clear signal from the Minister of Justice that it is not a danger to go and report. We want to take care of those who choose to go to such a step. But I also want to point out that for another type of crime – whether in human trafficking, violence in close relationships or the like – there has been a view that there have been little statistics, large numbers of darkness. So, after the huge focus that has been, the numbers have come to light, which is good. The post has written a number of articles, including: has told of the bishop of Agder, who has had converts in the office who sit and tremble because they do not dare to report. No matter how much time the Church has spent building trust – I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that it has a key role – it has not managed to get them to go and report. Perhaps it is, as the Council of State points to, because of the situation with safety authorities in their home country, or perhaps they are afraid of represals. Some people also point out, for example: Today, they feel that the police are lacking in competence. How can a build a better trust between the police and the converts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1324	An important element will be that churches and communities that get these kinds of experiences, perhaps on their own initiative, contact the police to discuss the issue, to establish the necessary contact, so that the police can better tell what they can contribute to a notification and how they can contribute to building the trust needed to promote notification in this kind of situation. I believe that in many ways, too, we will be able to benefit from the close police reform, where all municipalities will have their own police contact, so that they can have a clear point of contact, for example. The Church, in the municipality and in others who are away in this kind of case, which makes it easy to get in touch with the police – that you have a person who can acquire the necessary skills and show and guide along the way in such a process. Lowering the threshold for the Church, where the person who is exposed to this is completely anonymous, I would have almost said, could start a process with the local police in order to make it clear that there is something about which you need to have a dialogue, I think it can also be an important contribution to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1331	Thanks again for the good answer. I agree with the Council of State. The Council of State points out that the Church can play a role and make contact with the police. I want to challenge you a little bit again: the Council of State has any intention that the police could be the inquiring contact, so go on for example. or similar and visit religious leaders — not only necessarily in Christian context, but also in e.g. Muslim context — to clarify the right to convert, which may be an incriminating question? This may also be the background for, for example: Mathias, the convert, stands up today and tells us that he was exposed to the threat of killing, and that there are many who do not dare walk with the cross or talk about the threat of saying, just of fear of represals. Will the Council of State take the initiative to enable the police to carry out such work? Will he – as I was also at the beginning – take the initiative to find more documentation? Otherwise, I fully agree that the Church and organizations such as Christian Intercultural Work can do a great job also in cooperation with the police, for secure protection and secure reviews.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1342	What can be a challenge in this picture is that the extent of this is, firstly, little known and, secondly, will vary greatly from police district to police district. By initiating a large process, where all police districts are going to be active, outreach activities, I don't think we're going to achieve the goal that the representative Ropstad here is after. However, in police districts where it is known that this is a challenge — for example, through local media postings, for example through contacts with non-governmental organisations, communities or similar — there is no doubt that the police, as part of their prevention work, have the opportunity to conduct outreach activities, such as those outlined by the representative Ropstad. However, there has to be an assessment based on the need that the police believe exists in the region in question. Here, too, I think the permanent police contact system will be an important contribution. Police contacts will then soon be able to see that in this area there is a challenge. This means that they must give priority to their time in that direction too, in order to create the necessary dialogue and trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1355	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In 2010, Section 139 of the Criminal Code was amended so that it was punishable not to report when you have a knowledge of violence and abuse against children. Later, we have had a number of serious issues, including: on Mortensrud in Oslo, Vanvikan in Trøndelag and now last in Tromsø, where there may be questions of whether the reporting obligation is known and practiced. The evening post wrote back for a time that no one has been convicted of a breach of the reporting obligation in Norway. Professionals have thought that law enforcement is too complicated. What will the Council of State do to ensure better follow-up to the notification obligation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1362	Let me thank the representative for the question. The obligation to seek to avert child abuse has rightly received considerable attention, and of course it is a priority area for the government. The amendment to Section 139 of the Penal Code is an expression of the extension of the abolition obligation. It shall be less of a knowledge and understanding of an actual matter of violence or abuse now than it did before, in order for the obligation to be neglected. Moreover, it is now clear that, whatever the grounds on which the obligation of professional secrecy is based, any obligation of professional secrecy should be lifted. Police and the other justice sector have their own specific roles in the fight against violence and abuse of children in their field of work. However, they must cooperate closely with local authorities, schools, kindergartens, child protection and auxiliaries, and it is therefore important that social sectors other than the police provide good and proper training and information for those working with and for children. In particular, it will be important to provide guidance on the relationship with the different professional secrecy rules in force in the various fields and the framework to which they should relate. Experience has shown that, unfortunately, there is some fear in many sectors of breaking professional secrecy. The representative and I have had discussions on this earlier, and have the same intentions on the importance of ensuring that professional secrecy does not prevent the detection of such crime. A clear understanding of the relationship between professional secrecy and disclosure needs to be established – and must be formulated and communicated. It's a demanding job. Then I am pleased that the Riksadvokat in its 2015 target and priority letter on family violence investigations warned that the police and the prosecution authority now need to focus more on enforcing the deterrence obligation under the penal code § 139. It is the unmistakable responsibility of the police and prosecution. The police director informs us that there is now a lot of work in the police districts in terms of cooperation with other actors, including in particular municipal authorities, in terms of detection and prevention of violence and child abuse. Among other things, through a pilot project in Oslo, cooperation between police and other child care services is to be improved through the co-location of services. From my point of view, in addition to following up the police and prosecution trail that I mentioned the way it was done, I would also like to consult with the state councils responsible for the other sectors. We must jointly consider whether special steps should be taken in the form of skills enhancement to ensure greater compliance with the decommissioning obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1377	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. It's essential that we get better at protecting the weakest, that we manage to mobilise more people to join in and avert. If you look at the statistics, it is especially the health services, the schools, the hospitals – i.e., in the health care system, etc. – which sends little concern messages. I have e.g. looked at a case in Vanvikan in Trøndelag, where it appeared in court that the psychologist, permanent practitioner and health centre had information. But there are no consequences either — no punishment; there is no follow-up to the reporting obligation. So I want to ask the Council of State: there is also a need for better training in the police, own investigators, more specialisation in the field of reporting – because we hear every time, for example. in the Mortensrud case now, is it too complicated to get anywhere when they're going to go into whether anyone can be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1382	Maybe there's a need for that, but at the same time, I think we have to admit that these are terribly difficult things. In both health and school settings, the obligation of professional secrecy is very mentally embedded as a barrier to sharing information. Getting both the necessary knowledge and attitudes in those who actually do this job, who are in contact with the children, who have this reporting obligation, I think is the most important work we can do. In some of these very serious cases one will of course also have to use the criminal trail. I think that in itself will have a preventative effect, because it will lead to you becoming more aware of the kind of duty that is now incumbent upon you. It's important to mention that kind of thing. Then questions can be asked, as the representative does, about whether the competence of the police is good enough. I have no reason to believe that it is not, but there are therefore difficult questions regarding those who are going to assess and report. But there may also be complicated questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1391	I also thank you for a good additional response. When it comes to legal proceedings, as in the case I mentioned here, that there has actually been information that could have provided further investigation, including criminal law, it is important to try to learn from it. In Finland, there is a legal case now under way for the autumn, in which eleven public servants are charged with breaking the reporting obligation there, and we should follow it in terms of learning here. I want to ask the Council of State about today's paragraph on reporting obligations. It is formulated in such a way that what it mentions is mutiny, war treason, espionage, etc., and then it comes under a long ramification of paragraphs. It's pretty hard to read it, to figure out that there's an abuse against children, because then you have to go far down in the paragraphs. There are also details of what is covered and not covered, and formulations are used such as that it is safe or most likely that an infringement has been committed. Will the Council of State assess whether that paragraph is good enough? The evening post called for us to look at making a separate paragraph that applies to child abuse at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1402	I am not unwilling to see if a legal solution can be found in another way. There may be different ways to do this, but I think the most important thing is that you get the information on the framework of the reporting obligation to those who are actually obliged to do so – that they enforce it within the framework that applies. A lot of work has been done to try and get this message out. Yet, unfortunately, we get examples that this has failed. It's demanding. Now I'm not convinced that you can solve this problem by clarifying the law, because the starting point of the law house and the information that is shared is that this is quite clear, although it may not appear as simply in the legal wording of the law. But that's not what is usually the source of the information given to those who are going to work on this either. So I'm not unwilling to see if a lawyer can do this differently, but at the same time, I think it's also an important contribution to what we now see, that both the police and the Riksadvokat are prioritizing this in the future. I think that's also going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1415	‘We throw too much food in Norway. Households, shops and others throw over 25 pst. of the food. For example, it is estimated that in Norway we are throwing 190 000 breads a day. In France, legislation has recently been adopted which contributes to food distribution rather than to the large food chain. Is this a measure that the government believes might be relevant, and what other measures will the government take to reduce the amount of food that we throw at?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1422	I agree with the representative Storberget that we are throwing too much food in Norway. The government is taking this seriously, and there are already many measures and projects in place to reduce the loss of food. I and four other ministers and the industry now signed in May an intention agreement on the reduction of food waste. The whole industry is involved in cooperation, from primary industries to consumers. The objective is that the contract of intention should form part of a binding trade agreement. The government also supports the industry’s own food waste prevention and reduction project, ForMat, which has been under way since 2010. ForMat’s consumer gallup studies show that consumers threw less food in 2014 than in 2009. Many industrial waste reduction measures are being implemented, such as new packaging solutions, the reduction of products with short shelf life and new products based on unsorted raw materials. The creation of Matsentralen in 2013 is also an important element in the fight against food waste. This is now the Nordic food centre that distributes the most surplus food from the industry and to non-profit organisations. Since 2009, we have banned food waste from filling. While this waste is now mostly destined for combustion, feed production or composting, there is growing interest in increasing the share used for biogas. In reality, only the requirement for agreements with NPISHs distinguishes the preliminary legal text in France from Norwegian legislation. All of this shows that we are on the right track in tackling food waste in Norway, without such a ban as has been proposed in France. The French National Assembly has adopted a new law prohibiting the large food chains from destroying unsold foods. However, the law has not yet been finally adopted. It shall be dealt with and adopted in the Senate for its validity. After I have been informed, the Senate will discuss the law in June. The preliminary legal text obliges supermarkets to donate unsold but still edible food for charity, or to ensure that discarded food goes for animal feed, compost or energy purposes. All the large food chains in France must now conclude contracts with NPISHs to distribute unsold food to those who need it. Questions have been asked about whether the non-profit organisations have the capacity to accept as much food as this is about. The same objection may also be raised for Norway. I have been informed that one of the food chains in Norway has provided surplus food to NPISHs for 10 years, and they want all their stores to do this. Due to the lack of capacity of the non-profit organisations, only one third of the chain’s stores are doing so today. The creation of the Matsentralen in Oslo helps to increase this capacity. The non-profit organisations also cooperate as never before, and there is also an interest in several other cities in establishing food centres. In addition to new bans and bans, we will continue to cooperate with the industry, with a view to finding effective measures to reduce food waste in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1443	I would like to thank you for a very good answer. I believe that much of what the Council of State points to is very good action, and I am also pleased that the Council of State has that access to this. So, 190 000 loaves are to be thrown in Norway today, and it is a paradox that we use as an argument that those who could have benefited from those loaves do not have the capacity to receive them. That's how much food we throw in Norway. I have to say that this is an ethical challenge, it is an environmental and climate challenge, it is a distributional challenge, and it is absolutely a price challenge – from consumers who complain that food is too expensive, and then you throw 25 pst. of it. I am also very pleased that from 2009 to 2014 we might see that it is going in the right direction, as pointed out by the Council of State. But I still want to challenge the Council of State if not the time has come – since, after all, we haven't come so far, but it's going in the right direction – to turn a little towards some major actors, if not law-enforcement, so you're more aware that this is an entirely unacceptable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1452	What's important now is that we get such an obligating trade agreement, and what we need to get to it is more knowledge of what happens when the food is thrown. What we can also say is that as consumers, we are too little good at eating the food we buy. I have to say, at least for my own part, that I have intensified myself by planning the purchases a little better and thus throwing less food. Many of us have been trained that it is bad to throw food, and I also think that the new generations should be trained in, that we are trying to take advantage of what we buy. So it's a challenge that I think it's very good that the food industry has gripped: we know that many people live alone, and many of the packages that are to be bought in the store are designed for families. It's also one of the challenges that makes a lot of food wasted, that you haven't adapted what you buy, that there are actually a lot of people living alone in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1461	I thank you again. I feel that we agree on this. And when this Memorandum of Understanding, and this more voluntary arrangement, is finalized, I will challenge the Council of State to report it in appropriate form to the Stortinget, because I believe it must be in the interests of politics that we bring this up on the political agenda. I am not sure whether the French solution is the answer for Norway, and if you get a good deal of agreement with the industry and others, it might be satisfactory. At the same time, we see that there is a lot of activity in the commercial environment, for example. Keep-it, the Norwegian company that got a price now in Stockholm at the EAT conference, which marks food in a completely different way, where we don't see ‘best before’, or ‘eating before’, or all the other definitions, but which actually have a very clear indication of whether the meat remains. It is, of course, such an innovation that we need more and that we should also help to strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1468	I fully agree with that, and it is also about consumers getting more knowledge of this. It's often that many people might knock out the milk if you look at the date that the milk expires on the same day or the next day, while what's a fact is that it can be drunk and be of the same quality even if the date is exceeded. It is then whether it is the ‘best before’ mark or whether it is marked with the ‘last day of consumption’. All of these things we need to be better informed about, and that's what it's doing. I take, of course, the call to report on the industry agreement to Stortinget when we have this in place. I would also like to say that this is a matter which I think we should try to market together, all the politicians who are concerned with reducing food waste, and help to give dragon help to all those who are now doing a formidable job, both the Food Center and the industry themselves, who are now working intensively to bring down food waste. So here we can do a job together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1479	This question, from the representative Hans Fredrik Grovean to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by Minister of Culture Thorhild Widvey, who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1482	«The Archives Foundation wishes to establish a National Centre for War Sailing History. A year in which the beginning and end of the war are marked as massive as we now experience cannot go by without the history of the sailors of war being guaranteed a sound administration for the future. How will the government follow up the history of the ropes of war in such a way that they are managed in a sound and dignified manner?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1489	In Kristiansand, we have two cultural institutions that are both involved in documenting and disseminating knowledge about the history of war ropes. These are the Foundation Archives and the Vest-Agder Museum. The Archive Foundation receives operating grants from the Ministry of Knowledge, while the West-Agder Museum receives operating grants from the Ministry of Culture. I am aware that the Archives Foundation has the history of the military sailors as one of its central research areas. The foundation wants to be a center for the history of the war ropes with a focus on documentation and research. The main initiative of the Foundation is to disseminate knowledge about the history of the war ropes through digital channels and online services. The Vest-Agder Museum is part of the National Museum Network and, as I said, receives an annual subsidy from the Ministry of Culture’s budget. It's a consolidated museum with multiple departments. In recent years, the museum has been working to develop a scheme to convey the veteran ship Hestmanden, where the related war sailing history will be a major element. The steamer Hestmanden represents important maritime history. The ship is a national memorial of the efforts of Norwegian seafarers during two world wars. The work on restoring the horseman was started after a decision in the Stortinget back in 1995. It will still take some time before the work on putting on board exhibitions can be completed, but there is a good dialogue between the Ministry of Culture and the West Agder Museum about this. I am also aware of the professional dialogue between the Archives and the Vest-Agder Museum. A joint opinion has been prepared by the Archive Foundation and the West Agder Museum on the preservation and dissemination of the history of the war ropes. Both cultural institutions wish to further develop their cooperation through mutual exchange of competences and a comprehensive dissemination of knowledge on the history of the war ropes. The institutions provide for a division of roles, where the Foundation Archive will focus on documentation and research, mainly through digital solutions, while the West-Agder Museum will develop dissemination concept in relation to the Horseman. I assume that the Archive Foundation and the West Agder Museum continue their good professional cooperation. I also expect the two institutions to promote concrete measures in the ordinary budgetary applications to their respective departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1506	I thank you for your answer. It is, as the Council of State says, that there has been a discussion and a division of labour through a signed agreement between the Archives and the Vest-Agder Museum, as requested by the Ministry of Culture. The Archives Foundation has taken up the challenge and established Norwegian Centres for History of War, which are to be owned and co-located at the Archives Foundation in Kristiansand. The operation of the Centre for the Navigation of the War shall take place through this Association, and there will be a separate economy in relation to the Archives, while the new Centre shall benefit from close professional and organisational cooperation with the competences already existing in the Archives. The keywords here will be documentation, dissemination and research. Does the Council of State see that the Archives Foundation, through the work they are already doing and planning through the establishment of the Centre of War Sailors, can become an important and necessary contribution to the management of our history in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1515	I definitely see that. I see that they are doing both important and necessary work. Then it is important for me again to point out that the Ministry of Culture has sent a letter to the Archives Foundation with a copy to, among other things. The Vest-Agder Museum, where we point out that there is a technical cooperation between the Vest-Agder Museum and the Foundation of the Archives, and that we assume that the two institutions are clarifying who will be responsible for this documentation and the dissemination of the history of the war ropes. I am aware that the Archives Foundation has applied for funds for the 2016 budget. I guess I'll be treated in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1527	Thanks for the answer. The Archives Foundation is already handling tasks such as the development of a national war sailing register, new research on war sailing history, seminars and international cooperation, and, in fact, a book on this very topic is being launched here tomorrow in Oslo. In addition, through the establishment of this centre of war, one wants to receive and archive private archives, document and record information on the sailors of war, including operations and the management of a national register of Norwegian military sailors during the Second World War, researches new knowledge, including: by means of comparative perspectives and cooperation, which are important in this context, and by disseminating research-based knowledge, documentation and war guidance information through online solutions. Will the Council of State be in favour of continuing the dialogue already established between the Archives and the Ministry of Culture with a view to finding good arrangements, organisational and economic, which can properly preserve this important part of our war history?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1536	Of course, we will continue the good dialogue that we have both with the Archives and not least with the West Agder Museum. I think it is important for them to find out between whom to be responsible for documentation and communication. Then we get back to the annual budgets. As I said, it is the Ministry of Knowledge that is responsible for the Archives Foundation, and I am responsible for the operation of the West Agder Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1545	‘The government’s budget proposals have shown a minimal willingness to increase the number of places of study. This in a situation where unemployment increases, while evidence is provided that enterprises and enterprises in the public sector lack skilled labour. Does the Council disagree with the fact that the number of study places is a policy instrument that can be used to convert Norwegian working life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1552	The answer to that is no, I don't disagree with that. Strong staff in both the public and private sectors are a prerequisite for conversion and sustainable economic growth in Norway. Several study places are one of several possible educational policy instruments that can be used to achieve the desired transition in Norwegian business. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: pointed out for low throughput in higher education. Several students have to complete in normal time. I would therefore like to place great emphasis on getting higher quality in education, so that more people carry out and get out of work with a solid competence. For working life, I believe that the number of candidates completing an education is the most important thing — even more important than the number of students admitted. Statistical central agency projections indicate that the needs of the labour force are met in many areas of higher education. However, for teacher training, care and technology, we may have a shortage towards 2030. The Ministry emphasises that institutions cooperate closely with the labour market in order to develop study provision in line with changing and future needs. This is followed up, for example. during session management meetings and in other dialogue with the sector. It is also necessary to provide continuing training to help the workforce to have an up-to-date competence. The SSB's projections also show that we need to train more skilled workers from high school and post school. The government therefore has its own investment in the professional professions – the professional sector. The aim there is to help more students complete the qualifications required by the labour market. I would also like to make a separate announcement about the technical schools, such as: shall contribute to strengthening the importance of this training offer. In order to ensure a good match between the supply of and demand for education, it is necessary to facilitate better both for each young person to make informed and good educational choices and for making choices that benefit society as a whole. We are therefore also working on a national competence policy strategy to strengthen this area. In the context of the review of the revised national budget, the cooperation parties at Stortinget have agreed to ask the government to set up 500 new study places and be so kind as to give money to them. Such a strengthening from the autumn of 2015 will help us, among other things: may increase capacity in key disciplines such as health and social sciences and technological subjects. These are educations where in the future we will need a great deal of competence, and it is gratifying that the search for higher education shows that more young people are interested in such studies. Reduced offshore activity is now causing some uncertainty in the labour market in Norway and some are noticed directly on the body. We don't know the long-term consequences yet. We know that we need to change, and the government is following developments closely. In this context, we also need to assess the need for additional study places.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1573	That's right – the Prime Minister talks a lot about conversion, and the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, now says that new study places are one of several tools we can use. I note that in the budgetary documents and revised budgetary documents submitted by the Solberg Government, very few study places have been proposed – 20 paragraphs, to the extent that I can assess. But it's now once that in this hall there is power. Power means to get someone to do something else they wouldn't do, and the Left and Christian People's Party has used this power to get the Council of State Red Isaac to do something else he wouldn't do. Is that a correct description?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1578	It's not a completely crazy description, so I wouldn't be able to say it's wrong, because we've submitted a revised budget, and that's where we've done our priorities. But I am nevertheless amazed that it has taken so long before the Workers' Party has taken over what is the reality of the Storting. The reality of the Storting is that there are four cooperation parties, which are going to agree on budgets every year. It's not because you see that you have to force each other to different positions. It is because the four parties see that in knowledge policy, not least, we have a new and more offensive course: a rise in quality and knowledge at school, larger research appropriations – a clear shift in pace there – and a better and more offensive policy in almost all areas than has been the case in previous years. It is quite right that the Christian People's Party and the Left will have clear wins in the budgets too, but it has certainly also had the government parties. But most importantly, the four cooperation parties are united on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1585	The Storting’s Question Time is about the issue of government and government representatives asking questions. That's what I think Council of State Røe Isaken should notice, because often he talks about the Workers' Party in particular, and he can also talk about the other cooperation parties in particular. It is all right, but I note that it is those who have developed more places of study as an active tool. State Council Røe Isaksen believes it is less interesting as an active tool. What I want to praise the Council of State, Røe Isaken, for including in his answer – even though it is a bit on the page – is that he is concerned that several complete. I think it's absolutely right and timely to have a discussion about that, and I appreciate it. However, there is one area where it is not just about implementation, and that is ICT training. The whole of business wants more educated people in ICT, and the places of study are ready to create more places of study. Will any of these places go to ICT study places?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1594	We haven't decided where the new places of study are going, and then it's natural to look at where we need the most, where the SSB says we need the most in the future. And it's natural to look at the priorities the government has through, for example. The long-term plan, and – as the representative of Aasen knows – ICT and the need for technology are also important and have a prominent place. So I want to say there's two discussions about why we're going to have more places to study. One discussion is a long-term discussion of what kind of competence Norway needs in the future. The second discussion is whether we should use study places and increase them to prevent or remedy economic fluctuations in the Norwegian economy. In other words, do we need more places to study when unemployment rises? Then I say that on one point, study places may also be a clear counter-cyclical measure, but I would warn against a policy that thinks that the number of places to study should fluctuate up and down with the economic cycle. I don't think that makes sense, and neither is there anything in the Norwegian economy that points out that that need is now precarious as a counter-cyclical measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1605	‘Students at 4th stage shall, inter alia: swimming 200 meters [[stomach/vertebral]] Will the Council of State do anything, in addition to referring to the responsibilities of the municipalities? [[VG 27.5]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1612	Having new, clear and clear competence targets for swimming was an important step in the right direction. It is now carefully described what it means to be swimmers, and what schools should make sure that students learn. The hearing bodies were also – I would say – overwhelmingly positive about the new objectives. Norway’s Smömmemförbund and Norway’s Livreidsgesellschaft are in favour of the proposals, and several of them also stress that these are requirements they have had for a long time – they have called for clearer requirements for a long time. The representative Toppe then asks how I want to ensure that the students achieve the new skills goals. First of all, I would like to stress that it is not new that the curriculum in body training has competence goals that say that the student should be able to swim. In other words, the organisation and implementation of swimming training is nothing new for municipalities and schools. The new skills objectives clarify the school's responsibilities, and they are ambitious, but at the same time not more ambitious than they should be. First of all, it's a concreteization of what it means to be a swimmer. The Education Directorate is now working on revising the existing guidance material for swimming and lifesaving purposes. Schools will thus receive proposals for pedagogical arrangements, guidance and information based on the guidelines for swimming training. So I also think the municipalities have a lot to get to work with different non-governmental organisations to get good solutions and exploit the existing resources even better, not as a substitute for school swimming lessons, but as a supplement. We must stand together as a society to ensure that children and young people do not drown because of lack of swimming skills. For example, I have noticed now that Oslo has said that they will double the number of hours of swimming training in 40 schools where you can see that students need more swimming training to learn how to swim. That's good. Then we also have to have water in the pools. This is initially the responsibility of the municipality, but the state also contributes. We contribute to the rehabilitation of school buildings and swimming facilities through an interest-rate compensation scheme. This means that municipalities or county councils can borrow and the State grants compensation for the interest cost, which makes it more favourable. In 2015, 3 billion. kr of the investment framework for interest compensation for the rehabilitation of school buildings and swimming facilities phased into the budgets. That is 14 of 15 billion. kr has now been phased in as a direct contribution to, inter alia. construction of swimming facilities. Then we can't oblige the municipalities to rehabilitate or build new halls. I am absolutely sure that the representative also agrees that there is the local self-government crucial. But we can say something about what are our expectations of teaching, and that's what we're doing now. I would also like to stress that the government and the cooperation parties in Stortinget have decided that we should make an action plan for swimming. We already have two concrete measures under this government, which we have allocated funds of – 7 million. for swimming training for newly arrived minority language pupils and 10 million. kr for testing swimming training in kindergarten. We also assess whether there is a need for a skill test in swimming that is based on the objectives of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1635	Thanks for the answer. I want to make it clear that I think it is very good that the government has come up with the new skills goals, and I do not criticise the skills objectives in themselves. I think they're ambitious, but they're absolutely necessary. I would also like to stress that what is said in the media, for example: by the President of the Norwegian Federation of Swims, I perceive that they are not against the goal either. But you're wondering what's going on in the municipalities so that you can achieve these goals. The concerns are that municipalities lack swimming lessons, they don't have swimming pools, and they need to strengthen the skills of those who run swimming training. I didn't think the state council answered, was enough, because as it is today, an extra effort is needed to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1640	I agree that we have to do more, and that is what I also say. I say we've done a lot, I think we've come a good way, but we're not yet on target. At the same time, I would say that these skills requirements are not new and dramatic; they are a clarification of what it really is to be able to swim and be safe in water, to say it a little bit simple. This means that it is not a new task that is imposed on the municipalities, but a clarification of what to do. Then I would say here it's the same principle at the bottom of it as it is in Norwegian education, math training or food and health, namely that you have some learning goals that students have to meet, and then the municipalities have to make sure that those goals are met. That's the main principle here. But then I believe that the State should also contribute, for example. in the case of pupils who have not received swimming training because they have recently arrived in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1645	Thanks for the answer. I agree that there are not entirely new skills requirements, but the reality is that the skills we had were not met by all, most of them. I myself have experience with it, and it's actually quite unsustainable as that situation has been. When you get an enhancement of your skills, which is good in itself, I think it will be defensive only to show that this is still the responsibility of the municipalities, which they have not taken before for various reasons. Especially this with access to pool is a problem, especially in the large municipalities, perhaps also in the small ones. Will the government do something more than the interest compensation scheme that is in place to ensure more pool space to provide more education — which needs to be provided now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1650	As I say, we're working on an action plan to improve swimming skills. I also think it is natural to consider continuing an interest-rate compensation scheme, but that is a budgetary matter. I think that one of the most important things about these new skills requirements is that they make what is already the municipality's mission visible, so the logic here is that since this is not new, unknown requirements, but a clarification of the task, the municipalities are already funded to provide the students with swimming training. To the extent that this is the case, and there are some places, that some municipalities have down-prioritized this – not enough hours, not enough access to the pool, not having skilled staff to run the swimming training – I think it clearly shows that the swimming training, which is a job for municipalities today, has not been taken sufficiently seriously. So I repeat again that we have some government instruments, and it's by no means relevant to bring more. The main point here is that this is the task of municipalities to follow up, as it is in other areas of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1659	Thus, the ordinary questionnaire is changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1675	There have been several cases in recent years that have just been throwing ball between several countries, and I thought I would mention a few of these at full speed. Everyone knows, among other things: to the Pernille case, where the suspected perpetrator fled, but where the home country itself took the case into legal proceedings. We have the Martine case, where the suspect is fleeing and hiding in the home country. We have a Congo case, which appears at regular intervals, where decisions are taken, but where the legal certainty of each country can be called into question. Then we also have the Bolivia case, where it's been judged in the case. The criminal has admitted guilt, but has managed to escape to the home country, in this case Norway, but no new treatment is started. So there's a lot of things going on year after year in different systems, and you haven't had the opportunity to clean up this landscape. When it comes to child abduction matters, we've come a long way further. We also see that the Governmental Council of Solvency Horne, the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has now ratified the Hague Convention in this area, a ratification which Norway unfortunately did not adopt under the former Red-Green Government. We also remember all the things from Monaco and other things, things that have had tragic outcomes in child abduction. I would like to repeat the question to the Council of State: what opportunities does the Council of State see that agreed transnational criminal settlements can have a role in serious international criminal cases, and will Norway actively work to put in place such a solution in line with the OSCE signals, adopted unanimously by over 50 countries in Monaco?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1686	Let me first thank the interpellant for the interpellation. I broadly agree with the representative Michaelsen that persons who abstain from criminal prosecution by seeking refuge in countries without extradition agreements are a serious problem in the international legal order. I am, of course, familiar with the OSCE initiative, which is actually an initiative from the inter-pellant for which she was put through in the OSCE, and which was the result of a long-term and good work by the representative Michaelsen, to consider the establishment of an impartial international judicial authority which will be able to decide with binding effect issues about extradition, and which state will investigate and judge a criminal case. In order for Norway or another country to be able to prosecute a person residing in another country, he or she must be requested to be extradited. The supply of the person in question shall be decided by the authorities of the country in which he is resident on the basis of the legal rules in that country. Normally, delivery will not be relevant unless the requesting State has concluded an extradition agreement with the State in which it is located. At present, there is no general mechanism to determine with binding effect the issue of extradition and the country to investigate and judge a criminal case. For example, the International Criminal Court has: only the opportunity to prosecute a few crime categories, such as war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. Efforts to combat serious crime across borders have been central to Norwegian justice and foreign policy for many years. The government wants to punish people who have committed murder, rape and other serious acts within its borders, no matter where they may seek refuge. A fully executed and fair criminal procedure is at the root of any well-functioning legal society and is necessary both for individuals affected by the crime and for society in general. That is why I would like to welcome all the proposals that can help limit impunity for serious criminal offences. An international mechanism to address the issue of extradition, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences also raises some very important issues. Firstly, there is little reason to believe that a country that does not already cooperate in the conduct of criminal proceedings would want to submit to such an international authority. Secondly, such a system will not be able to escape the fact that many countries, including Norway, have a ban on supplying their own nationals for criminal prosecution in other countries. This also applies in Norway, but with a temporary derogation for the Nordic countries, all of which have the same values and legal certainty guarantees as Norway does. Thirdly, such a system will need to cover countries with a completely different legal culture than our own and with different approaches to fundamental issues of legal certainty and criminality. The interpellant was involved in such an example in his article as well. Today, these kinds of issues are multilaterally regulated only within the European context, characterised by a more uniform criminal law tradition enshrined in democratic values, rule of law and guarantees of legal certainty. It will also be challenging for Norway to commit itself to an agreement involving supplying people to countries where questions can be asked about fundamental guarantees of legal certainty and the use of the death penalty. It is difficult to imagine Norway being able to commit to such an international order. However, Norway will continue its efforts to strengthen bilateral and criminal law cooperation on extradition alongside criminal law cooperation within the European context. The initiatives that the interpellant has taken internationally, which she has also received from the OSCE, are important steps to see how to proceed with such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1709	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer. I am fully aware that it is a challenge and also complicated how to get ahead on issues that remain in the system, issues that are not solved and that fall just between two chairs. But it's my clear impression that an initiative to secure for the future transnational criminal justice also meets a great deal of interest out there. This has Dr. Juris. Hanne Sophie Greve spoke out a number of times, and I would like to support the fact that this view has emerged clearly in my discussions with both representatives of the ICC, the International Criminal Court, and the PGA, Parliamentary for Global Action. Experience has shown that a Convention-based future arrangement will not be put in place immediately, which was also in the hands of the Council of State, but it should not have stopped because it might already have been possible to throw in single items that are stuck in the system. If a structured system of individual criminal settlements is established, such arrangements could serve as preparations that could contribute to the broad international acceptance of a permanent Convention-based system. In this context, it is enough to point out how the international ad hoc courts of former Yugoslavia and Rwanda respectively were important pieces of the political game in order to ensure the establishment of the ICC International Criminal Court. An ad hoc testing scheme in cooperation with the ICC will be interesting for several reasons. Now I'm pointing out how one could do this right here. The ICC is the international body with competence in international criminal law and criminal justice. The ICC will be a natural parent organisation for a permanent and Convention-based structure for agreed transnational criminal settlement. As of today, the ICC has few tasks – ideally the court should of course be free of duties, because the world should not experience the kind of terrible things that the court is dealing with – so that the judges in the ICC could be interested in contributing to an agreed transnational criminal settlement when this will not shut down their ordinary duties. In addition, the ICC is in a situation well described by the English term ‘has cast, seeks play’, i.e. the whole of the ICC needs to gain experience in developing tailor-made agreements for criminal settlement with national, transnational and international aspects in different mix variants. So once again, I wonder if the Council of State thinks this could be an interesting procedure to look a little bit closer to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1720	We would like to continue this, not least in consultation with the representative and other representatives of the Stortinget who can work on these matters in other international forums. At the same time, there may also be some challenges related to the Greves initiative and the way in which one thinks this is linked to the ICC. As I mentioned in my post, the ICC now has a very limited mandate. They deal with the most serious international crimes: genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. I think that the ICC, as it is built today, has a capacity utilisation that I think we can say is the maximum out of the job that is being done. There is also a cost perspective in that thinking. It is very costly to keep a transnational court going. It's a court that can't just pass judgment in a specific, concrete case to then disappear again. This is, of course, a court that needs to have a continuous activity in order to deal with the kind of cases that the representative is concerned about to be handled by such a transnational court. So it has to be done a very comprehensive job if you want to create an initiative and an action room to connect such a transnational court to the ICC. It's probably demanding. There are probably many different political views about this internationally. I am pleased that the interpellant has received positive feedback on the initiative she has taken, and not least has an entire international organisation gathered behind such an initiative to see how one can continue working on it. However, I think it is quite right, as the interpellant himself says, that when it comes to making such mechanisms work, it is based on a very long-term work, and it is based on the need to agree on a foundation for how to properly solve these tasks that ensure the legal certainty of the citizens, which also meets the constraints that we, as a legal state, depend on such a court of law, and that there is an international will to resolve these problems. Very often we can unfortunately see that one at the overall and principal level believes that these are good thoughts, while when it comes to the specific issues, it turns out in practice to be very demanding. The representative himself mentioned specific issues in which it is very difficult to achieve good cooperation with the countries in which these people live, and for Norway it would also be a challenge in some cases because we have this ban on handing over their own citizens to the courts of other countries. This can also be solved, but I think we have to admit that it is a long canvas to bleach.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1733	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue for debate in the main hall. The current situation is such that when a case has international ramifications, it is easily problematic both to conduct research and to have people delivered. The system we have with extradition today is time-consuming and bureaucratic, and it takes a lot of resources. We see examples of particularly serious issues that countries open up have an interest in being charged, but that are not. Interpellant addresses an action to improve drug use in this area. In Norway, we have proud traditions of having a good code of criminal law, and we have safe and good courts. This isn't the situation over everything, and one actually doesn't have to travel far before one can see a completely different culture. A transnational court has been debating for a long time, and there is reason to note that a Norwegian lawyer has been a hot advocate for the solution. We see the need for such a court of law at regular intervals. In particular, there is an increase in the number of cases involving other countries, Norway has close cooperation with, but does not have extradition agreements with, and where the suspect has abstinence. In practice, this means that things become still standing bombs. For us as a society, for relatives and those involved, this is unsustainable. As the interpellant points out, this could upset the general sense of justice. As politicians, we must try to counter this, not only with one action, but with several. One open example of such a case is Martine-saka, which happened in England. The intentional escape to a country of Norway does not have an extradition agreement, which led to a long-standing diplomatic effort to try to find a solution in the near future. Still, it is uncertain how this case is going, and whether a person is given responsibility is not decided. Perhaps some countries could see it as an intermediate solution if one could bring the case before the International Court of Justice. Perhaps it could have made it easier for states to ensure that their own citizens were brought to justice. This is a solution to a difficult problem, but more measures are needed. Norwegian authorities need to facilitate delivery agreements with the largest possible number of countries and help simplify delivery processes without compromising legal certainty. We record that this becomes more important and important as a result of Norway becoming a multicultural country. The system raises some practical questions. A state is responsible for its citizens. In addition, someone must also take responsibility for investigating and handling the case. But we have to be solution-oriented and contribute to this system. We must not forget our ideals. It is important that we take care of the legal certainty of all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1752	Thank you again to the Council of State for your answer and also to the representative, Mr Inge Lien, for taking part in the debate. I feel that the Council of States is very constructive and not least open that this is really a challenge that we have to take seriously, and that he also makes a positive attitude to want to look at the challenges that are here. I would also like to show that representatives in the other Nordic countries will promote similar interpellence in their forums. I have great faith that by driving this case forward we will be able to succeed in the long term. I am absolutely convinced that the positive attitude that I feel the Council of State is expressing here is the small seed that is needed to actually achieve something in the long term. Once again, I thank the Council of State for a good answer, and then we'll cross our fingers so that we can achieve something in the future on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1763	In many ways, this discussion is the result of a much smaller world. Unfortunately, it is much easier in this area to be able to commit a serious criminal act in one country, quickly get out of the country and almost find yourself somewhere in a country where one cannot be held responsible for the serious crime committed. The representative has referred to several such examples himself. The representative, Lien, set one concrete example, and it is clear that it really puts our sense of justice to the test that one can commit serious crime in one country and ‘hidden’ – in many of these cases one does not even have to hide, but is living as a free citizen in another country – without the matter being tried for any right. I think that's why there's a couple of important extra tracks that you should work with in addition to the international seed that the interpellant was in, because it'll take time to develop. It is also important to work with extradition agreements. It is important to establish extradition agreements with relevant countries, so that one can get criminals to the country where the crime has happened – and then it is demanding to the extent that it is its own citizens, to the greater extent than if it is not. The second track is that one can strengthen cooperation on criminal prosecution in the country of residence. This means that acts committed in another country will also be punishable in the home country. We have such provisions in Norwegian criminal law, where committing such offences, for example. a murder in another country could be prosecuted in Norway. Developing what is also a closer cooperation arrangement internationally, I think will be an important contribution that can ensure us better against people being able to commit serious crime and ‘get away’ from any kind of prosecution. It is demanding for us who are concerned with justice being done to the fullest extent, to accept that some can avoid criminal prosecution in the way that can be done too much today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1774	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-03.ana.ud120e1787	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
