ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e22	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen from 8 April onwards and until further notice from the representative Freddy de Ruiter on care leave on Wednesday 8 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For East-Agder County: Line Kisses VenneslandFor Nordland County: Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e56	Line Kisses Vennesland and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e61	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on the content of the criminal service on behalf of the poaching representatives Hadia Tajik, Jorod Asphjell, Lene Vågslid, Knut Storberget and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e66	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e69	I am delighted to be tabling a proposal on alcohol on behalf of Mr Olaug V. Bollestad, Mr Geir S. Tuskedal, Mr Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e74	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e86	On Wednesday 1 April, the Stortinget received a communication from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e91	For the large majority, Sunday is a day of rest where joint voluntary activities are often carried out, for example: in sport, corps, church or neighborhood. This is the day when we can take time off – as a family, with friends, at the same time and together. The government will have Sunday-open shops all Sundays. That means that the only common rest day we normally have during a working week is due to fall. Trade union organisations and trade unions that organise employees are in agreement with this proposal. There is also no majority in the people. Those who organize people see the consequence and the ringing effect of Sunday becoming like any other working day. It sounds hollow when the government claims that it is an opportunity – not an obligation – to keep Sunday open. We know enough about the competitive impact of opening hours. What is the option for the small shop when the big mall stays open? Hairdressing salons and other shops in Sunday open malls have hardly any choice, they have to follow the centre's opening hours. Research from Fafo shows that Sunday-open shops will cover a total of nearly 300,000 persons employed. How will it shape society? For example, will the municipalities: had to facilitate Sunday-open kindergartens? It is not obvious that everyone should have a rest day on the same day, says the Minister of Culture. No, it's not obvious, but as a community, we can choose it. We can make good choices as a society. Today many people have to work on Sundays and who keep Norway going: hospitals, those who clear the way. Nevertheless, for most of us, we can count on being free that day. It's a cultural feature of our country that we have a free, a quieter day, a different pace and time together to meet other needs than acting. Now this proposal is out for consultation. So far, the reactions to broad resistance point, and my question is: Is this a real consultation in the sense that the government will draw the proposal if the resistance to it in the hearing were to provide it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e104	The Labour Party has for a number of years waged a heroic struggle against extending the opening hours in Norway and against making Norway a more open country, breaking up monopolies and contributing to the society we see today, where we no longer have to run to the store to reach that half past five, but where we actually have a society where the shops are open, so that it is adapted to a modern family life. The fact that we live a slightly different life in families means that society also has to be slightly different and have different opening hours. In our opinion, open shops on Sunday and the possibility of Sunday trade are part of making sure that each family can make their choices about how they will live. I believe that it is not an obligation to be open on Sundays, it is an opportunity to be open on Sundays. If it's economically beneficial for shops to keep open on Sundays, they'll do it. Today there are 85 municipalities in the country where shops are allowed to be open on Sundays. Every year conflicts arise where shops in municipalities refuse to be open on Sunday because the county believes that they are not touristy enough. We see, for example: municipalities such as Lillehammer and Øyer, where the Hafjell store has one of the absolute largest turnovers of all shops in the area. Why? Well, because Hafjell is characterised as a tourist resort. So people from Lillehammer travel to shop on Sunday when the store is open. It also creates inequalities around it. We believe that this freedom of choice is important for families. The freedom of choice provides opportunities, there is no obligation to be open, nor is there any obligation to act. Each family can choose its activities and participation. Nor have we forced open children's gardens on Saturdays because whether the shops are open on Saturdays.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e115	I did not get an answer to the question, but we will see when the hearing approaches the end. Each family has its own needs and freedoms. It's not that this is just about the freedom we have to be able to act, we can until noon. 23.59 on Saturdays mostly everywhere. This is also about the freedom that people have to say they have free, and for 300,000 and more, this is about you not having the freedom to say that you have free on Sunday, because that is because you have to work when the center stays open. The arrangements described by the Prime Minister are arrangements that show that we have a flexible arrangement, that it is possible to act, that one will not be bitten for it one needs, but we have one day a week as a common norm where we have freedom. There is also an environmental dimension in this, and I want to ask the Prime Minister that the increase in activity in building open, transport etc. According to research that has come, will correspond to what we cut in emissions by having electric cars. It's going to be zero if we get Sunday open shops. Is it the contribution to the transition we need in the field of climate, that we get one more day of commercial action in the country on the one day we could take off together?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e122	We now have a flexible system because the Workers' Party was defeated in the 1980s and 1990s because we created a more open society. The Labour Party has used the same arguments – perhaps not the environmental argument – in each debate. At the time the shops closed at 4 p.m. 4:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. 17, the Labour Party used the same arguments. When it was difficult for women to be in a full-time job because they did not have time to go to the store, the Workers' Party decided that it was more important to limit opening hours in the shops than to give families the opportunity to make the choices they themselves wanted to make. Then it is that Sunday-open shops do not increase working time in Norway. It actually contributes to the same type of working time. This means that some people will work on Sundays, but it will probably also create more jobs, as the opening hours have already done, and there will be more jobs for students, more opportunities for additional activities, more opportunities to cope with the future for those who are young and who need a start in working life. It has increased the service sector in our society that we have expanded the opening hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e129	There will be follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e132	First, as head of the Education Committee, let me say that I think it's better that the students study than that they work at Rema. But now the government has promoted this idea of Sunday open, and we find that those who work in the shops are against, they believe that this affects the freedom to have holidays. Those who own the shops are against, they think it affects the profitability of the companies, and those who shop in the shops, the Norwegian people, are against, because they think it hits Sunday as a different day. Now we record that the government does not listen to popular organisations, the trade union movement, workers and the Norwegian people, but employers do use the right traditional to listen to. When NHO Trade says that if we're going to extend the opening times by maybe 10-15 pst. and do not have much more turnover, this affects productivity, it affects profitability, and it affects many small businesses. Is that an argument that the Right might want to listen to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e141	That's how it becomes optional whether you want to keep it open or not. It provides greater opportunities for families to act, and there is no obligation. It also gives more jobs to students and others who want a job. If the representative Trond Giske had been committed to improving student funding, he is certainly pleased that in two consecutive budgets we have regulated the student loans and the framework for it more than the price increase has been, as opposed to the previous government. So it's a little bit better to be a student under this government than it was under the previous government. When it comes to the issue of Sunday-open shops, it is out for consultation. Of course, we should listen to the hearing bodies, but it's not like we listen to monopolists or those who want to limit, always. We have a long tradition, we actually, to regulate also against business interests sometimes, because we know, for example. that you do not want more competition. Then it is our duty to ensure that competition is present, so that we contribute to improving the welfare of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e148	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e151	According to the government consultation note, it is difficult to specify precisely the consequences of the proposal being promoted. The government is sending out proposals to consult and change traditions and social structures that have existed for hundreds of years, without knowing what that will lead to. It seems to be a desire to change something most of us consider to be something that works well. Sunday as a different day is experienced by many as a good, a valuable dimension and something that gives quality of life. According to the note, opening Sunday-open shops can lead to efficiency and restructuring in the industry, and according to the Trade Cooperation Committee, we can expect larger and fewer sales of goods and more of the trade moves into the malls. This may lead to a restructuring of the industry and to the de-velopment of the least profitable enterprises. Is this a development that the Prime Minister really wants? Does the Prime Minister think it is more important for market forces to prevail than for good social structures to be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e161	I think maybe we're fundamentally in disagreement about whether any system that's been in a couple of hundred years is going to be the future arrangement. Then we wouldn't have had the society we have today, because our society has evolved. When we developed it by changing the opening hours – and we did it in several rounds – we did it just because we saw that in a new society, where people live a different life, it is necessary that the shops are organized in other ways. I disagree with those who say that this means that we don't have a common family day. Yes, any family can decide which family day they want. Each family can organize and do it its way, and it will be that for some people Saturday is a nice day together, and for others Sunday is a nice day together. I do not despise those who believe that there can also be fellowship in having time to go together as a family and act on a Sunday if you need it, because mother, father and child have the opportunity to do something. It is that we want a wide variety of business, and that is what we are going to do, but we also want freedom of choice for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e170	Next follow-up questions are from Trygve Battle Vedum – Trygve Battle Violence Vedum. That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e173	It is good that there are some traditions that exist! [[Laughter]] We in the Center Party believe that it is wise to take care of some traditions, and it has been a tradition in Norway for generations that Sunday is a different day. It's a good one, and it's been a good one, and it's going to be a good one. When the government has announced that they want to pave the way for society, that Sunday should be equal to all the other days, everyone has reacted negatively. The Church has done so, voluntary organisations have done so, trade and business have done so — the vast majority of Norway has done so. But the deposit representatives from the Right are running on. One of the hottest defenders to make Sunday equal all the other days is Heidi Nordby Lunde, who said: The industry doesn't want it to be different, the trade movement doesn't want it to be different, the Christian people don't want it to be different, nor do the skimoralists want Sunday to be different. Does the Prime Minister agree with such a description of the opponents of Sunday being a different day?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e184	I would certainly not dry to be moralizing to skiers, for I am married to someone who is very happy to ski. Then I'll shut up when I get home! On the other hand, I don't have to characterize others, I'm just saying that we're for something. We are in favour of that freedom of choice for some families to organize their lives, we are in favour of the possibility of choosing which day to make a common day for families, and we are in favour of the opportunity to act. In 85 of the country's municipalities, it has been decided not to have that tradition, because there are jobs depending on the incomes of tourist traffic, while two of the country's largest tourist cities, Oslo and Bergen, are not allowed to be tourist towns, because there are so many other businesses and so many other jobs. But if you look at where there are most tourists in this country, where there are most jobs that could have been saved on a Sunday, or where you could work and give offers to tourists, for example. Oslo and Bergen, it's not allowed, because it's not a big part of it. So it's a little bit relative if the traditions only apply to all the municipalities other than these 85.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e195	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e198	In the Left, we have confidence in local democracy, not least in questions that only address the individual community. It is imperative to see that there should be someone in Alta if a store is open in Aurland. When we trust that local democracy can handle demanding questions, important questions, such as creating a good school for our children, a worthy care for the elderly, busying refugees, governing the articulation policy – is there a special reason why we should not be able to trust that local democracy can decide whether a store is open or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e205	Predictability of industrial investment may make differences between municipalities difficult in a four-year perspective and with a four-year horizon. This means that for a shop that has one political majority — one — to expand and base itself, among other things. on Sunday trade, it will be difficult if they only have a four-year perspective, because they can believe that this is a matter that changes after the four years. This could be one of the reasons, i.e. predictability for small and medium-sized enterprises – which I know the representative from the Left is also concerned that we should ensure. Otherwise, I think this is a question that local democracy can also discuss. For this reason, the government has sent out two different options for consultation, including: the outcome of the programme of the Left, namely that the municipalities are given responsibility for taking the decision. But the government's recommendation is that we make this a national legislation, like the opening hours for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e212	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e215	Someone has to work on Sunday because it's important. Police, hospitals and fire services must work all the time. But it's not exactly about life and death to be able to buy shoes and makeup on Sunday. People who work in stores need to be free with their kids. Now I hear that the Prime Minister thinks that you can choose the day you want to be free. I don't know if it's going to be accepted that you take your kids out of school on a Wednesday to be home and have this common holiday. I'm assuming it's not possible. When all the studies show that prices will increase, that several small shops will go bankrupt, and that more people have to work inconveniently on Sunday, which is not exactly perceived as freedom – what is it that makes the government stand on this? Does the Prime Minister think it is a more important freedom to buy shoes and makeup on a Sunday than to ensure that more families can be with their kids on a common holiday?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e222	An opening to have a Sunday opener does not mean an extension of the working time of the individual. It is determined by the regulations laid down in the Working Environment Act. So to the question of increased prices. A working group in the OECD has conducted a study on the consequences of the liberalisation of opening hours on Sundays in a number of European countries. The study has not found that prices are increasing. It has shown that more Sunday trade has increased in work and that parts of the trade in goods have increased their turnover. This is the assessment that the OECD has made when looking at the European countries that have opened up to Sunday trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e229	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e233	Yes then – it’s nice that the Prime Minister wants us to be able to control our own spare time, but then we all know that like the weak people we are, we tend to do stupid things if we get a chance to do it. That's why we regulate a lot of things here in society, and that's probably why our Lord gave us a clue as to what day we should not work. [[Laughter]] Then we have the problem that the competitive situation in the trade in goods is such that a quite obvious consequence of Sunday open will be fewer small shops and fewer jobs – apart from the big chains, which are the only ones who want this Sunday opening. How will a right-wing government compensate for the loss of jobs and small businesses that Sunday open will provide as likely consequence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e240	I think I have a different relationship with how much guardian state we're going to be to people, whether they do stupid things or not. I mean, the constraints we're going to impose on people when they do stupid things are about things that are dangerous to themselves or dangerous to others. In addition to that, I believe that the freedom to do some stupid things in between is part of the experience that we all learn from in our life course. So it is that our Lord may have set Sunday. The Jewish Lord decreed another day, the Muslim a third. I don't think there's any argument for why we're going to have a change in that, but I think in a society that's changed, where the family pattern has changed, it's to be able to open up every day of the week one of the opportunities that are adapted to the life we live. I want to remember that all the arguments I hear now, I heard in the 1980s, when I was young and politically active, against the extension of opening hours. There have always been some who have preserved the old ways of living. We believe in the freedom of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e249	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e252	148 people were killed last week in an Islamic terrorist attack on a high school in Kenya. The extreme Al Shabaab group was behind the massacre. It disgusts when terrorists sort students by religion and massacre Christians. Kenyans are also shocked that the chief behind the massacre is one of their own. He is neither poor nor knowledgeless, but a well-trained lawyer who was previously taught at an Islamic school in Kenya. Once again, we see that it is ideological extremism rather than poverty that motivates Islamist terrorism. Al Shabaab is from Somalia known for extreme brutality and intolerance. Kenya has become increasingly the victim of their actions. Al Shabaab has been behind attacks in the last two years that have killed over 400 people in Kenya. We must condemn attacks on schools in conflict situations. It has my full support when Norway, together with Argentina, now launches proposals for schools to have the same international legal protection as the Red Cross in military conflicts. International legal protection requires responsible states, but hardly includes terrorist organisations that regard human rights, democracy and international law as modern errors contrary to their understanding of Islam. My question is therefore twofold: Will the government strengthen Norway's efforts against Islamist extremism, and will the government strengthen support for the work of peace of faith, which is one of the most fundamental human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e261	I want to stress that the pictures from Kenya – along with the pictures we see from Nigeria, or those we don't actually see, because the TV cameras have not entered those areas – show an explosive and extremely difficult situation related to the emergence of extremism in parts of Africa. We already know that in Syria, in Iraq and Libya, which is splitting up and splitting up, we know that from the situation we are also seeing now with the attacks in Tunis, where there is a emergence of extremism that is worrying and which the international community must take seriously. It is mixed with all the other conflicts that exist, for example: in the Arabian Peninsula between Shia Muslims and Sunni Muslims and between rival extremist groups. It's extremely important that we have an international united front to try to fight it. Then I want to say that it's extremely difficult to fight. It is absolutely right that in some countries the ideologically well-educated, well-integrated people are recruited for this. In other countries, for example, we see. on xenophobics, that's not what's the main picture. But we know that, among terrorist organisations and in connection with acts of terrorism that have been carried out in the past, recruits from both Egypt and the United Kingdom have been highly educated and skilled. That's why we have to work on very many different levels. Some of that is what we do through what the representative also said, trying to get an international school and education code. I think that's important, I think it's important for the future of children's education. But I fully agree that it's hardly going to stop this kind of movement that we see, because they don't care about the rules of war. There are warriors without honor, and there is war without rules, what we see around. But international cooperation, supporting freedom of faith, is one of the most important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e268	I agree with the Prime Minister that this is extremely difficult, but we have also seen a development in this millennium where more extremeism is more serious. In the fall I received an appeal from the evangelical and Protestant churches in Syria and Lebanon. They fear a direct extermination of the Christian presence in the Middle East, and they ask the world community both for relief and for measures to stop the militant Islamists. I think it says something when Christian groups say that they see that the presence of Christians can be wiped out in the Middle East. It says something about the seriousness of the situation. It says something about our responsibility to do even more for the international community to stand together, and to do even more in this particular fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e275	We now see a situation in the Middle East that we have not seen in the same way before. In many countries in the Middle East, Christians and Muslims with different backgrounds have been able to live side by side, with respect for each other’s faith and armpits – of course with pushing and challenges, but we have seen it. One of the largest Christian congregations in the Middle East is the Coptic Christians in Egypt. They now believe that they have a slightly better protection under today's government than they had before, but we saw for example. that of the Egyptian guest workers who were in Libya, it was those who were picked out as victims of direct beheading, among other things, which led Egypt to execute a retaliation against the same Libyan groups. Working because we have freedom of faith – working internationally for this – is incredibly important. But we have to look for the keys that help us stop the conflicts and the behaviour of extremism. And like I say, we're going to look for everyone, and I hope everyone will cooperate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e284	There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e287	Freedom of faith is, as the Prime Minister said, one of the fundamental human rights. That freedom of faith will also apply here in the country, and I will address it in this context – we are now talking about people who come to Norway and who convert. There we have a special responsibility, and in the agreement that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have concluded, there is a particular point relating to how we treat converts, against which there has been considerable criticism. This is something we alone are responsible for. In February we received a report from a law firm, ordered by the government in line with the agreement, which also criticised Norwegian practice. So my question is, When will the Stortinge get presented with changes as a result of the agreement we have entered into?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e294	There is no doubt that today's Foreign Affairs Act provides protection if you are at risk of being persecuted by return on account of their faith. It is clear and clear in the foreign law we have today. What is the big question is whether the foreign administration practices an understanding of conversion and the risk situation of a return, which is good enough. That's what this report has also gone through, and it has critical points, for example. to the questions asked and other questions. This does not mean that the Stortinget is presented with a separate case relating to issues relating to converts, but the four cooperation parties will have to talk through how to ensure that the practice in dealing with and handling these matters becomes so good that we ensure that converts are given the right to protection they already have under the Foreign Affairs Act, if they are at risk of persecution by return. It's important to remember that it's the last thing that matters, not if you've converted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e299	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e303	I want to thank Knut Arild Hareide for raising a very important question, because the terror in Kenya has obviously received very little attention in the Western press, and I think it is important that this issue is also addressed in the Norwegian National Assembly. Norway will soon contribute further to the fight against extremism, as we have done for many years in Afghanistan. It is an effort supported by the Workers' Party. What is worrying in the picture now is that Norwegian soldiers are going down and fighting and training an Iraqi army, and we have seen quite extensive human rights violations committed by the Iraqi army and also Shiamili groups. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister share my concern about the landscape in which the Norwegian soldiers are going to enter Iraq, in the important struggle they are going to fight against Islamic extremism?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e310	Everything with the situation in Syria and Iraq now gives cause for concern. It gives cause for concern that the government that we have in Iraq today is unable to be wide enough to create the alliance of all the groups that we had hoped we would get from the change, which could have made sure that the suns and the shia could work better together. We see a clearer sunni-shia split. We see an Iran, which is behind several of these militias as we see in Iraq, as a pusher of its interests in the area. This, of course, is a difficult topic. We choose to continue with the two commitments we have gone to Stortinget and have been promised to contribute. One is in the Kurdish territories, and the other is in Baghdad. The importance of our training measures is, among other things: that the rules of the war are an important part of that training, in order to contribute to the non-implementation of the human rights violations we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e315	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e318	Religion is a direct or indirect cause of oppression, violence and massacres all over the world. People throughout the world are slaughtered because of their faith, lack of faith or wrong faith. Freedoms such as freedom of expression and equality are not possible without having at the same time full freedom of religion. Not only Christians in Muslim lands, but also Jews and Muslims themselves, for example. China, Myanmar and sometimes India, are being oppressed and persecuted. It was very commendable that both the presidency and the government at Børge Burnde set up at the international religious conference we had here in Oslo, but we have to do a lot more if we are to be able to make a global movement among parliamentarians, among politicians all over the world, to bring about the changes we need. My question to the Prime Minister is: How does the government plan to take the leading role internationally to create more freedom of religion in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e325	Norway has a long tradition of working with interreligious cooperation, including with the support of the government. We do it primarily through our religious communities in Norway, by activity towards religious communities elsewhere. For it is often the case that believers meet believers, who create the best dialogue of faith and freedom of religion. But it is going to be important for this government that we conduct that dialogue while also taking the clear and clear steps of justice policy in the area of foreign fighters – the clear steps we have to take in Norway to ensure that fewer young people fail to believe in extremism. We will also do so internationally, simply in order to help stop the emergence of this and the military dominance given by various terrorist organisations with extremist fundamental views.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e330	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e333	Clearly, it was a good meeting last night. I would like to follow up on the question relating to Kenya, because in Norway we have, until now, had a broad political debate about recruitment to ISIL, about the need to prevent the Norwegians from going into service for ISIL. There may have been less political attention on similar issues regarding Al Shabaab. We know that on at least one case, one with a background from Norway has been involved in terror on behalf of Al Shabaab. It would therefore be interesting to hear what the government will do to draw attention to recruitment to Al Shabaab in the future, and also what Norway sees as being possible to contribute to a political process in Somalia that allows more people to put trust in the government there, rather than in armed rebel groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e340	A big question in one minute. It's like the work we're doing against extremism in Norway, not just related to ISIL. It's related to all kinds of extremism, and we hope that with the tools we're trying to get started, the closer follow-up in the municipalities, the cooperation we have, and the follow-up PST has -- it's probably so much about other groups, and that's also one of the reasons why some of the Somali names that have been attached to Al Shabaab have also been known in advance by the police. It is important to work with the Somali groups, a large group in Norway. It has become, if I don't remember correctly, the third largest non-European immigration group in Norway now. They're many, they're young -- that's important -- and they're worse included than very many others. It's important for us to focus on it to make sure that not these kinds of ideas prove themselves and more travels. In addition, it is important that we support the Somalia peace process, and support the work of the UN in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e345	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e348	The Greens have supported the Norwegian Instructor's contribution to the fight against ISIL because we believe that Norway needs to take a decisive position on a task to protect people from such an organisation. So we know at the same time, as several speakers have been here today, that Iraqi government forces and Shiamilits are committing acts that do not at all correspond to the purpose that Norway is in Iraq to promote. The question to the Prime Minister is: How does the government plan to follow up developments in Iraq, and what deadlines are set to assess whether the Norwegian Instructor’s contribution is in place or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e353	We are doing it continuously in the cooperation we have internationally in the fight against ISIL and in the fight to ensure that Iraq can have a capable and cohesive government. As it looks now, there's no reason why we shouldn't go on with that contribution. It has taken a little longer than we had hoped to have it outsourced — not only Norway has, there are several countries that have. One of the things we have to be clear to the Iraqi army is exactly what I said earlier: the rules of war. An important part of the training that both our special forces in Afghanistan, our police officers in Afghanistan and our ordinary advisers gave, and which is also going to be what we give in Iraq, is exactly what is human rights, what is conflict law, and what cannot be done. We must be very clear in our condemnation also of the abuses committed by the Iraqi army, but it is probably the militia that has done this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e361	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e364	The government’s municipal reform as a local democracy reform was cancelled before Easter and replaced by a pure centralisation reform. It became clear when the government presented its proposal as to what tasks the government believes the municipalities will have. The tasks proposed are small and insignificant. Some major tasks may be transferred to the largest municipalities, but they need to be investigated first. In addition, the government has started a process of depriving municipalities of important tasks such as: responsibility for the care of the elderly. The government's policy is based on distrust of Norwegian local elected representatives. Therefore, it is not surprising that it is really about the local reform, removing municipalities and getting fewer local politicians around Norway. We in the Center Party are very critical of that. We believe it is important that people know those who are responsible for important tasks such as kindergarten, school, care for the elderly, the local culture – that you have services close to where people live. The government itself refers to the task message as the movement of time in power. However, when you see the reactions of Norwegian local politicians, and not least of Right's own, there has been no shout of applause. So I want to give the Prime Minister a small opportunity: what concrete tasks are being proposed shifted is what will bring more closeness to services for people, and that will create more commitment around local policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e373	Firstly, a municipal reform is important in the light of the tasks that the municipalities currently carry out. To implement the ideas we had – a majority on the Stortinget – in the context of the Interaction Reform to strengthen knowledge in Norwegian care for elderly people when it comes to patients who are not to be moved between the first- and second-line services, but get a good offer more quickly locally, we need more competence, and we need better services. We need it to make sure that our children's education offer is even better. We have to make sure that all children in this country get a school with qualified, good teachers who are well up-to-date and who provide the knowledge needed by the knowledge society of the future. We know that those who work with people with disabilities need expertise in their municipalities. We know that those in child protection need good expertise. I could ram a lot of areas. For example, planning also requires that you have good knowledge, instead, as many municipalities today have to do, to buy a lot of the services from consulting companies. All these are tasks the municipalities operate today, which would be better if we had a slightly different municipal structure than what we have today. In addition, we're transferring more problems, and there's two types of levels on it. One is the whole task being transferred. The second thing we're doing is we're going to give greater autonomy in areas and less overtest by the state. It is not the case that the right rapporteurs do not think this is a good thing. I have met with the Right-wing rapporteurs, and they actually think this is good. They think they've got new jobs. They think this is going to be good also to strengthen local democracy. Having competence and knowledge of coherent areas and not being overestimated by state bureaucracy in areas by region is what they want the most, and that is what the community reform is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e382	The Prime Minister was unable to mention one specific task to be transferred. I'm not surprised. When you lift up, for example. school, it is amazing that it is located in Norway with the best school results, with the smallest municipalities, Sogn and Fjordane. So there's some direct connection between school results and municipality size, there's no professional evidence for. There is only one claim out in the air, just as with child protection – the Prime Minister knows very well that the evaluations made by child protection show that many of the small municipalities have come out better than the large municipalities. Nevertheless, you raise it up, and you have no professional evidence for the claim. Some of the amazing things in the government proposal are that you want to, for example: public transport shall be transferred to the municipalities. My question to the Prime Minister is this: how can there be better public transport and coordination, for example: around Stavanger when you want to split up responsibility in several municipalities instead of having it at regional level, as we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e391	I can answer that we had an attempt when I was a municipal minister who gave very good results, and which meant that, for example. My hometown, Bergen, got a much better collective offer. They received, among other things: a free bus in the centre to ensure that you could drive a bus between the car parks. It was ensured that a unit rate was reached within the municipality of Bergen, which had not been before, and which meant that those living on the outskirts of the municipality had a lower rate. More money was spent on the collective offer in Bergen than had been done before, and it has actually infected the county municipality, which has not been able to go down again on the levels it had before. It has to be seen in the context of the ability to address urban environmental challenges — the fact that there has been no opportunity, for example. organise public transport and be responsible for it when it is at the same time responsible for doing something about the urban environment and the air challenges. There will be a ‘mismatch’ between the measures in place and the responsibilities in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e398	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e401	It's a fact that this government started the whole municipal reform with structure, with drawing maps, and then the tasks would come later. Now the municipalities have waited a year and a half to see what tasks would be transferred from the state down to the municipalities. The answer is that there were very few, for the most important tasks to be transferred from the counties to the municipalities, not from the state to the municipalities. In the case of tasks from the State to the municipalities, there is an assorted sample which includes the permit for vegetable washing, motorsport, shooting and windmill noise, sport-functional prior approval of swimming pools, responsibility for the TT scheme and subsidies for the operation of the cableway. Those are the small things! It is clear that the municipalities have had great expectations that this would be a reform in which tasks were really transferred from the state to the municipalities, and many are very disappointed. The drawer is also the Prime Minister's party trap Gunn Marit Helgesen in KS. She says this is not a reform for decentralisation, but a reform for more government governance. How does the Prime Minister view the reaction of his party and many rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e410	I disagree with the quotation from Gunn Marit Helgesen. I've also heard her mention this significantly more positively than what comes out of that quote. Actually, a lot of tasks are transferred. Not least, government governance is restricted. Among the things that are up to discussion is finding a different average in terms of aids. This means that the whole of the care services becomes more responsible for the municipalities, and that means that you can help wider without having two treatment agencies, where municipalities often first have to apply for a new treatment within the state aid area. In the area of child protection, we also signal a greater transfer of responsibility, but it is part of a greater professional review that we have of child protection, where municipalities will have greater overall responsibility than they have today. They built the state child protection too big, perhaps in response to the fact that we have too many small municipalities. We now have a double treatment of child protection issues, which means that instead of using resources on services, we use resources to process the services that children will receive. They need the services, not more bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e419	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e422	I heard the Prime Minister say that one of the reasons why you have to join municipalities is that you get a better school. Now it is not that the size of the municipality is crucial for school quality. There are good teachers, good teaching methods, follow-up of the individual student and not least time — and enough teachers who have time — to follow up on each and every child who gives good learning outcomes. In one area, a reform has actually been proposed on the education side, and it is that large urban municipalities can take over responsibility for secondary schools. That means Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim, etc. may take over secondary education, but at the same time, Hordaland, Rogaland and South Trondelag must be responsible for the secondary schools outside the cities. So if the ten largest city municipalities take over the secondary schools, it's 29 instead of 19 that's responsible for secondary school. How this can be a simplification of the public sector, coordination of the provision of services, and how this can ensure that the dimensioning is in line with the needs of the business community, I would like an explanation. In my view, it must lead to more bureaucracy, more coordination, more school administration and more difficult management of an important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e431	I believe that a good learning environment is also about having a high level of professional skills to follow up the professional development of the different municipalities. We have seen reports that the implementation of the Knowledge promise has gone at a very different pace and with different results between municipalities, depending on this particular support function that is around the municipalities. It's quite natural that it's smaller in the smallest municipalities. So it's absolutely right that Sogn and Fjordane have better results. Sogn and Fjordane have an atypical development compared to the rest of the country in terms of school outcomes. This is probably due to a very heavy and strong school tradition, but also to the fact that they have a very strong culture of coordination and cooperation between teacher training, the county and the individual municipalities, which are very good and which provide the environment that is very often lacking elsewhere, but which a larger municipality would provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e439	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e442	In order to carry out the community reform, some economic instruments are linked to it, so-called reward schemes. They're divided into three cash bags, I call it. It's that they get to keep the breakdown grant, 15 plus 5 years. It's reform support, limited up to 30 million. NOK and one-off costs, so-called hump costs, limited up to 65 million. kr. The last two money bags are regulated according to the population of the new municipalities that come, while the first, the breakdown grant, is the old, good municipal framework. Then I wonder about the financing of the reform further. Will the government finance the reform aid and the one-off cost of extra funding, or will it be taken from the breakdown grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e447	The appropriations for this will come in each year's budget and will be earmarked and visible in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e452	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e455	As a hindrance, there are several people who have come to realize that the perhaps most centralizing and structural reform we have had in recent times is the cooperation reform undertaken by the Red-Greens. For the left, it is essential that we shift power, and decentralize power and authority. That's exactly why we've been working on setting up regions. I wonder what is the Prime Minister's approach to it. For the left, we see that regions will be more involved in creating a balance of power across the country. Last year, in the Left, we were able to maintain regions – intermediate levels. How does the Prime Minister see this to be possible in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e460	The Prime Minister has the assumption that she intends to respect the fact that the majority of the population does not want to reduce the level of population but wants a regional level. My starting point for lowering the county level is that I believe that there are no jobs left at the regional level that are most natural to lie there. That is why I think that the regional debate must have a substance, that we must discuss what the politicians sitting there should have as their responsibility. It must not be organised because of the need to have a regional level, but it must be organised because it is the best way for the citizens of Norway to do those tasks. That's the discussion, and I've registered that it's been difficult through several governments. When I was a municipal minister, I had many challenges, especially from the Workers' Party, that we had to have a major regional reform. The regional reform became very small, it eventually became the county roads and more responsibility for them. Because when you look at these questions about where it is best to place the problems – how best to solve things – the regional level often falls a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e467	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e470	I would like to begin by commending the Prime Minister very warmly, because she has been very commendable for the fact that we have to preside over the fact that the green shift is faster than we thought, but also because she says so clearly that it is a desirable change and a change that leads to great possibilities, so that we can make this happen. It is also appropriate to stress that in good cooperation we have taken important steps to get a green switch in the decisive area. The state budget, which has now been operating for three to four months, leads, for example, to: a larger green shift for the transport sector than any of the things we saw under the red-green ones. For the Left, it is obvious that a strategy to slow down development is as far as possible a misguided strategy. The task is to help speed and direction make development the best possible for as many people as possible, not least to strengthen all the exciting things that are happening in the industry and in the export industry. This is also the main theme of the national meeting of the Left, which starts on Friday, green growth. How can we address what the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concludes – that growth can still be sustainable, given that it is green? If we are to achieve this, it is decisive that public opinion is at the forefront, that more of the pooling of research opportunities leads to green growth, that more public capital is invested in what has the potential to become profitable green businesses, and that we use the tax system to stimulate what we want more of: more new Norwegian environmental enterprises. So the question to the Prime Minister is, point 1, whether it is agreed that investing in green growth is the most important thing we can do in the years to come, and point 2, which the Prime Minister himself thinks is the most important measures to achieve a green transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e483	I fully agree that it must be like a framework for all of us in the growth we are going to have in the future, that we should not exceed the 2-degree target. This means that climate challenges must be an important parameter in the direction of where our economic growth will come in the years to come. In addition, Norway is an oil- and gas-producing nation and is going to be for many years, but we have to pick up the growth from new areas. That growth must then be derived from sustainable, long-term, environmentally good enterprises — jobs — because the future requires a different composition of our emissions. The main instruments for this are really knowledge policy. It's research and development, it's corporate arrangements, it's making sure we have good programs. Of course, the government is working on the reinforcement that we have jointly done at the BIA, at FORNY, on the founding and founding program. We're working a lot on these questions to get it done. When it comes to green growth, I want to say that much of it will be in the environmental and bio-based industries as well. But it's important to say that green growth isn't just that, it's also growth in areas that aren't really related to energy consumption at all. I think much of the growth in the years to come is going to happen in areas like biotechnology, like health materials – that is, that kind of technological development. Norway does not have so many comparative advantages except that when we have a large public sector, the public sector can be a better buyer by contributing to the creation of a basis for new enterprises and therefore provide a basis for innovative areas. The health sector is, the care sector is, and we know that this is going to increase. I'm very concerned that when we talk about green growth, it's not just the government we're talking about, but we're talking about the big width. But we would like to have a cooperation on that. We are also looking at all the industries that Norway is currently strong in that they need to become greener, for example. shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e496	Thanks for the answer from the Prime Minister, and it is good that she got into the oil and gas industry. Today's Business yesterday we could read that Norwegian business leaders report zero growth, and in particular the supplier industry is tied to oil and gas as wear. But also within the oil and gas industries, it is possible to take action that stimulates both the supplier industry as a strain today and that leads to a green shift. I want to point to two tools that left-hand are busy. One is to make it more profitable to invest in an investment on the base — an enormous potential — through a green tax shift for the oil sector. The second is to realize the unisonable desire of the industry to establish a full-scale pilot plant for marine wind, e.g. by providing electricity from sea wind turbines in whole or in part with an off-peak height. So the follow-up question is short and well whether the Prime Minister, in cooperation with the Left, will agree to form green growth even before the supply industry that is linked to Norwegian oil and gas production.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e507	Together, we have ensured that we have now set up a green tax commission that will review the proposals. We are concerned that we need to see these proposals in the context. It is well possible that the two proposals that the Left has now put forward are correct and sensible proposals to implement, but we need to see them in relation to what we spend on money in other areas and the effects, that is, where we want to create the best pressure. I expect that the Green Tax Commission will provide us with a basis for making assessments, for example. whether tax incentives are correct, re-conversion of taxes also within the scope of industrial taxation and, where appropriate, petroleum taxation to see if there is any possibility of distorting them. It is true that exciting future projects also exist in the oil and gas industries, for example. sea wind as a potential source of energy instead of using fossil fuels. It's exciting, but we have to know more, and we have to get a little bit further than just to the drawing board with this, before we can make sure it's the right thing to bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e513	There will be follow-up questions – first Pål Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e516	A month ago I was visiting the Norwegian Maritime Competence Centre in Ålesund with Trine Skei Grande. NMK is probably home to 800 highly skilled jobs in the maritime sector. The main message to us was that they were ready to take a leading role in new environmentally friendly technology and to take a leading position in the new growing green market – nationally and globally. In short, they're on track for the future. However, in order to achieve this, they are dependent on some national measures, including: that, by 2030, ferries, coastal cargo ships and high-speed craft shall have zero emissions and that we shall establish a tendering regime related to zero-emission technology for new ferry offers as soon as possible, preferably by 2016. These are measures that do not cost money, but require political leadership, to dry up the green shift instead of yesterday's solutions and technology. So my question to the Prime Minister is this: Will the Prime Minister join the maritime industry to get the green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e523	The government is working on the maritime strategy, including where the green shift for shipping changed, and has asked for input related to that strategy and will eventually conclude which measures are most appropriate. There are many measures, not least the possibility of the interesting prospects for battery ferries. Now we've had some problems with the one we've been running lately, so it's probably a little bit too young technology to be sure that we've come to chargeable batteries is the answer to future ferry operations. But I believe that there will be an opportunity and something we will work with more. I don't think we can count on being free to replace Norwegian ferries with less fossil fuels and go over to others, it's enough to cost money. Those tenders are going to be more expensive, and it's always a matter of when we hit the technology market so that we don't pay very much for what's quickly being made technology – and that's one of the assessments we have to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e528	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e531	The debate on the green shift is often a debate about something going on there. The complicated thing, I think for everyone, is to be specific about what measures must be taken now to be involved in the fight for the green shift. The Prime Minister himself mentions some exciting areas: medicine, health, medicine technology, etc. What we're experiencing, and that's the big shortcoming to commercialize the knowledge we have in this area, is a lack of capital to follow the products into a commercial development. What will the Prime Minister contribute in this area? It's interesting to get an answer. So on a number of occasions in the last six months, Stortinget has discussed green growth and opportunities in limited areas, for example. green data storage, technology-neutral, green renewable energy re-depreciation, etc. But we often hear that the government answers no to the questions raised in these debates. When will the government put its green growth measures into practice, and can we expect Norway to take the lead in attracting new green investment for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e540	This government started from day one by making sure that the change started. In our first budget, we presented significantly more money for business and business research. One of the great distinctions between the previous government and today's government is precisely this effort that this government has made, together with our collaboration parties on the Stortinget, for nutrient research. We have increased the deposits in the Climate Technology Fund. This means that we actually get more money available to Enova, and we're working on what strategies Enova will have to have in the future to bring about green growth. Initially, they get some more money – the money that the Workers' Party said no to give when we negotiated the climate agreement. We made the deal before Christmas New Seed Fund. We've made the same depreciation on the wind power that Sweden has, so we've done a lot in these areas already. Then there is one important thing: if we want more capital that contributes to the commercialisation of products, we cannot, through the tax system, punish private capital that takes risks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e549	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e552	It is often focused on the major challenge of climate change emissions. It is important that one is concerned about the solutions, the possibilities of conversion and the opportunities offered by green growth. We will note that in many areas of business in general, in transport, in renewable energy and also in bio-based industries. There may be some extra opportunities because they have it in themselves that both can create a new and strong business life, but also contribute to significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is clear that there is some uncertainty in the Storting about how fast the government will act on the issue of some of the measures needed, so now the government is going to negotiate with the EU on emissions obligations. There is a risk that a person will push the measures and what a person wants to do, in front of him, pending the negotiations he is going to enter into with the EU. The question is, in particular, in the case of bio-based industries, in the case of biogas, in the case of forests and in the case of the greenhouse sector – how will the government contribute to a rapid transition and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e559	It is the case that the frameworks up to 2030 and the size of the cuts to be taken, especially in the non-quota sector in Norway, are to be negotiated with the EU. This does not mean that we do not implement measures. We're implementing measures. Among other things, we have proposals for more favourable wind energy depreciation rules at consultation. We have made sure that we have more money for climate and forest investment internationally. We've provided 10 million. SEK for bioga strategy, grants for pilot plants and for research – we are working on a biogas strategy to get there. We have a new investment in urban environment agreements. Many of these things we've already started. It is that with the state budget now presented, it will show that for the first time, the emissions from private car transport in Norway are actually going down as a consequence of the budget compared to the preliminary estimates given when we made the budgetary changes. So it's not like we're not doing positive things, but we can definitely do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e564	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e567	Then we leave the Kosetime and go back to the Questionnaire. Under the red-green government, families with children from Afghanistan were not returned to internally displaced persons. The situation of children was considered to be too dangerous, and since it has made the country’s security situation even worse. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees is very clear in his warnings against sending families with children forced into Afghanistan and believes that this can only happen in cases where each family has strong and established networks around it. In the Question Time on 14 January, the Prime Minister stated that during the current government, children’s families are not being sent to exile in Afghanistan. The Prime Minister was able to assure ‘that no children’s families should be returned in exile’. March 27th, a verdict fell in Oslo District Court showing the opposite. It was reproduced on TV2 today. It appears that a family was sent out of Norway, referred to internal flight in Afghanistan, 15 November 2014. A number of other reports also show that what the Prime Minister said was wrong. The police department's own report to the Ministry of Justice shows that 42 long-term children were sent to Afghanistan last year. According to our country, more than 110 minors were sent to Afghanistan last year. What the Prime Minister said to Stortinget in January was obviously not right. Will the Prime Minister now acknowledge that her government has changed Norwegian policy and that it has sent families of children to exile in Afghanistan in the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e581	It is true that on 14 January I gave an approximate answer, which was that ‘UNE has practised not sending people back on the inside flight.’ I did so in a question from the representative Tuskedal. That is why I also sent a letter to the representative Tuskedal on 5 February stating that UNE has informed me that no one has been sent back in violation of UDI's recommendation after it arrived. That is what I meant to say when I informed that no one was returned in violation of UDI's practice presentation after it arrived on 1 July 2014. The judgment actually shows that that's right. It assesses this as evidence that it is in line with the Code of Practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e586	So that was not what the Prime Minister said in Stortinget on 14 January. She then said that there were no children's families returned on internal flight. It is true that this is not contrary to the UDI recommendations, but it is contrary to the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner, and also to the recommendations we receive from the Afghan authorities. It has become more and more evident that the opening of return to Afghanistan government has been talking about, never really took place. This means that the return agreement with Afghanistan is under pressure, as we have seen in the response of the Afghan authorities, among other things. The case with nine-year-old Farida from Dokka, which was reproduced in the newspaper yesterday. The main reason for not sending children’s families to refugees in Afghanistan now is the terrible situation for children, against which the High Commissioner has pointed and strongly warned. These UN councils followed Jens Stoltenberg and Grete Faremo, who are not known for their rudeness to asylum seekers. Erna Solberg and Anders Anundsen do not follow them. What does Erna Solberg know, as the UN High Commissioner does not know?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e595	It is such that in August 2013 it was opened for the return of children to Afghanistan, but no returns were made until we came out in 2014. What has been practice is in line with practice – the question addressed in the questionnaire on 14 January was related to UDI’s practice – and the fact that in one sentence I was a little inaccurate, I corrected the questioner afterwards, which is the traditional one when you see that sometimes you don’t fully answer legal questions in an oral Question Time. That is why I also informed about this. It is that the judgment the representative refers to is going through exactly what has happened in this case, and it shows that this family has a network in Kabul, that the adults have lived in Kabul, and that they have an opportunity to live there. This is the basis for the country also appearing in court, where it states that it complies with the principles set out in UDI practice. That's what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e602	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e605	This government began sending long-term asylum children to Afghanistan under coercion. This has not happened before, although the agreement that made it possible was in place. This is because the situation was very serious in Afghanistan and, as the United Nations writes in its letters, children are particularly vulnerable in Afghanistan. They're subjected to violence, and not least the girls are very vulnerable to rape and sexual assault. In addition, the safety situation in Afghanistan has become much more difficult in the last year. This means that the possibility the government has used to send out families with children has happened when the situation has become worse. Can the Prime Minister refer to one single source of information – from the UN, Afghanistan or human rights organisations – that can demonstrate that sending children’s families to it has become safer than it was before?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e610	As Andersen, the representative, informed, it was opened for the return of children by the previous government, but it was not implemented. So this was done at the beginning of August 2013. I assume that the previous government, when they opened up for the return of children, made an assessment even if they did not carry out the return. After that, it is actually the case that assessment of protection issues — assessment of persecution issues — is not a political issue; it is an assessment by UNE based on the general principles. Once the ban has been lifted from the past, children have been sent to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e617	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e620	These are very complicated issues – it's easy to understand – and it's difficult to both look at the consequences and figure out what the right policy is. So I thank you for the letter and the clarification that came after the question the last time. But now there's a little new situation on the basis of what the UDI has said and on the basis of the case we're reading about today. Now my question is: has this led to any change in practice, or will it lead to any change in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e627	The foreign system is managed in such a way that any proposed UDI practice on changes will come from the UDI to treatment in the Ministry of Justice. Following the change of practice that came, which UNE had practised over a long period of time, and to which the Ministry of Justice gave its approval a few months ago, no new initiatives have been put in place to change practices. So now practice is quite clear, also written by the Ministry of Justice, what was UDI's practice proposal last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e632	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e635	As politicians, we should be concerned that the elections and decisions we make are ethical and morally sound, that what we do is decent in our day and will be judged as decent in retrospect. The Minister of Justice has lamented that a clear policy change was not put into practice. We do not know whether the system failure has affected individuals incorrectly, and whether asylum seekers have been sent out, for example. to Afghanistan, without these asylum children being sent out. Does the Prime Minister think that the decent thing is to check if the system error has affected individuals incorrectly, and if so, correct the error?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e645	The representative now asks a question where there are ongoing conversations between four parties, and where I feel that the answer lies in the conversations the four parties have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e650	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e653	We are aware that there are talks, but this concerns things that this House has dealt with in the past and which it is now discussing to a large extent, and these are issues that are quite significant. There are a couple of questions that create a little bit of fuss. One of them is four and a half years of residence in Norway for the long-term children who may be retreated. In the past, there has been an understanding of a shorter period of time, three and three and a half years, and it has also been that one has said that there should not be a specific year because one has to assess the specific relationship that a child has with Norway. The problem with setting four and a half years is that then one loses the possibility of a concrete assessment of a child’s relationship with Norway, and one can thus come into the situation that some children who have a strong relationship but do not have four and a half years of age are not re-assessed. There has been a demand from the Christian People's Party, among others. to look at it further. Is there something about which the Prime Minister and the Right and the Government are concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e658	I will again show that there are conversations between four parties about the understanding of that cooperation and the agreement we have. As for the four-and-a-half-year question, I have registered that it is in demand from some parties, and that it is in media speculation related to it. Then the one regulation that we made, the temporary instruction that was made before Easter, is linked to ensuring that families are given information that they have the opportunity to deliver the desire for change according to the new legislation, and that they have the opportunity to seek the one-time solution. There is a certainty that everyone has information so that they can benefit from the new rules that this government cooperation has led to and that the decision they have taken on the basis of red-green policies is no longer necessarily what will apply to their situation. But if there's any final solution, I don't want to say anything about it, because that's what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e663	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e666	Lower wage growth, lower oil investment, lower interest rates, increased unemployment — there are prospects for the Norwegian economy by the vast majority of economists. At the latest, we saw an example of that in DN yesterday, where 25 macro-economics responded to a survey conducted by the newspaper. Since the accession of this government, the pace of the economy has slowed down, employment growth is weaker and unemployment has increased. The government's response to this has been to make it more expensive to permit employees than to go to dismissals. As a result, more people have lost their jobs and companies lose valuable skills. According to Norwegian Industry, as many as 3,000 employees in their businesses could have been outsourced instead of losing their job last year. Instead, the government has made it its main priority to cut taxes for the country's most prosperous, tax cuts that the government has not been able to demonstrate contribute to anything other than growth in differences. With the situation we see in Norwegian working life now, will the Prime Minister and the Government, as the Labour Party has done in our alternative budgets, reverse the tightening up that this government did in the permitting legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e675	With the introduction that the representative had in his question, I think I feel the need to ask questions back to the Workers' Party: Is it such that the Workers' Party has now intended to say that the economic development of the fall in investment and the oil price is the fault of this government? Because that's what you tried to imply in the way you asked the question. It's okay if the Workers' Party can be honest that that's what they're going to do in the years to come. What we've said is that there's going to be a shift towards a new normal. In a transition phase, it is natural that labour is not left in one sector but moved to other sectors. What we've seen is that companies that have lacked labour, for example. engineers, it is now finally being given as part of the conversion. That's why we thought it was right that we had permissive rules that didn't hold back the labour that was needed in other sectors. The railway works report e.g. Now that they finally get enough engineers. That's good, because we're going to build more railways, and then we actually need the people who're going to be involved in planning it. There has been a shortage in large parts of the public sector. What the government has seen is that, in addition to the transition to a new normal, we are now in an acutely more difficult situation because of the low oil prices. That is why, in letters to the parties after the parties have asked us, we have also signaled that we will reverse the tightening up of the rules on permitting in relation to the revised national budget. The background is that we are now in a situation that also shows more seasonal change, and we are likely to be at a lower level in a shorter time. But that doesn't change the need to say that we're in a transition to the new normal as well. Therefore, it is important that we do not lock labour. However, in some companies it will be important that we retain skills and the labour force in the future, for example: There will be more tasks related to Johan Sverdrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e687	I think we can establish that the Prime Minister is overinterpreting my question if she heard in it that I was trying to blame the oil price development on the government. She can take it easy. It's a fact that we're up in that situation now, and my question is about how the government responds to it. Then we have also registered that the Minister of Labour has invited to dialogue with the parties on the law of permacy, and that the Prime Minister is now going far in his response to announce a reversal. That is good, because it has a collective employee and employer page long wanted. Then my follow-up question is: Does the Prime Minister now acknowledge that the government's weakening of the law on permitting was a mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e696	On the contrary, as I said, it was right. When the oil investment fall came, which is primarily signals of the new normal with a lower rate of investment in the future, it is important that we also ensure that the labour force is mobile, and that we fill the gaps that we have seen for many years have been missing elsewhere, and that businesses do not keep labour on public account, at the taxpayers' expense, as other parts need. As we said each time this was discussed in Stortinget, we will consider developments on an ongoing basis. Thus, developments have changed, especially as a result of the fall in oil prices, which has significantly worsened the situation. It now makes it natural to make changes to the rules on permitting. When LO and NHO in the final phase of their salary settlement sent letters to the government asking for such an assessment, we also responded positively that we will do this in the revised national budget, and this was published Friday before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e703	It will be an additional question – from Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e707	The economic situation is increasingly demanding. Yesterday, DN said on the front: ‘Now the descent’ and ‘full brake’. We can sign that from the West. Ships are in custody, seafarers are permitted, and the delivery of ships from Norwegian shipyards is being postponed. After a four-yard visit to South Sunnmøre with the LO leader, the feedback was very unambiguous: a lot of people have already had to be licensed, and more are going to be so. Then it is important to listen to the parties, who have been very clear in the government's signals that this has to be done with. It sounds like things are going on here, and it's very good. But then I have a question for the Prime Minister: Where is the government's power to act politically to deliver an active industrial policy in order to meet the oil cover we are now facing, and not meet it with a situation of right-wing neutrality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e712	We've been conducting an active industrial policy from day one in the government. That is why we have significantly increased all the instruments for research related to business. Unlike the previous government, this government is committed to increasing our research skills, improving access to research resources and improving cooperation with research institutions. An important part of the government's industrial policy is to make sure that we strengthen today's businesses with new products, that they meet new markets, but at the same time to ensure that the new businesses have good framework conditions, so that we also get completely new areas, for example. green growth, which we have talked about earlier in the question from the representative of the Left. Active enterprise policy is something the government is doing all the time. If it's the case that we're going to talk about selective support as an alternative to it, I'd say selective support may not be the best idea to create the new businesses. The best idea for creating the new businesses is to stimulate competition through research funds to those companies that have the best ideas and to ensure that we have a good level of knowledge and competence in general in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e719	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-08.ana.ud1793e732	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
