ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e136	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative, Mr Inbjørg Amanda Gösskenen, from 5 May to 7 May to take part in the election as an observer of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe before the elections in Turkey by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representatives, Mr Kenneth Svendsen and Mr Ulf Leirstein, from 6 to 7 May to take part in the Parliamentary Forum on Intelligence and Security in Vienna after the invitation On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the Province of East-Agder: Lene LangemyrFor the Province of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik OlsenFor the Province of Eastfold: Kjell Håvard Jensen
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e181	Lene Langemyr is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e197	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one hour and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e206	As rapporteur on this matter, I would like to stress the importance of the proposal that representatives Iselin Nybø, Sveinung Rotevatn and André N. Skkelstad, from the Left, have raised here. The members of the Judicial Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, like the proposers, are concerned that the issue of the introduction of general police weapons is a matter of value and is closely linked to the social mission of the police in Norway. In Norway, we have a well-trained police force with a high level of professional competence that has great confidence in society and among the public. The Workers’ Party is committed to the police’s task of protecting citizens, institutions and societies from crime, violence and threats posed either by individuals, enemy groups or organisations. A majority of the committee, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, is quite clear that what means the police should have to use against our citizens is not just a police matter. It is at the highest possible level a value question and must be addressed accordingly. This means that democracy determines how democracy should be protected, not by government, directorate or individual police districts. This is closely linked to the social work of the police. They represent us, and they protect us, and the central principles for how this is to be done are determined by us. The working party is very concerned that people have been able to experience a high level of security for life, health and important values. We are concerned that when a crisis arises, it should be managed quickly and efficiently, with sufficient competence at all levels. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party believe that the system of forward-looking storage of weapons in a civil vehicle ensures that the police have quick and good access to weapons when emergency situations arise. I would like to refer to the government's political platform, the so-called Sundvolden Declaration, which states that the government will open up general arms in the police districts where the police themselves believe this is the best solution. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the autumn of 2014, the government sent a proposal from the Minister of Justice to the hearing – in line with the government statement. We have noticed that the Council of State has not received support in this area either from its own members of the Judicial Committee. We think it is very gratifying that the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party on Stortinget are now leaving the government platform with regard to the introduction of general weapons of police in Norway. Today, we have a threat situation that is being dealt with by the police. The Labour Party is confident that the police will deal with this situation in a good professional manner. At the same time, we will stress the importance of the government keeping the Storting constantly informed about the threat picture and what it will do to downgrade the need for general armaments in the future. Working on the new police reform, I have had the pleasure of traveling around the country and meeting police officers, leaders, trust-elects and employees at all levels of the police. It has been instructive and has given me valuable insight and competence in police work. Common to all these visits has been the question of culture, management, training, competence, resources and – not least – research and knowledge. Then, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, I would like to raise the three minority proposals from the Committee, such as: will give us, as elected representatives and the police, a better knowledge of the experience of, among other things. advanced storage of weapons and how general armaments can affect police response. We have a police force with strong integrity and a value-based view of its social role. The Labour Party is concerned that we're still going to have a police officer who knows his audience, and that the audience knows his police. Like the police, we're very concerned about how to shape the police role for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e232	Then the representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the proposals behind the Workers' Party and the Centre's party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e235	The question of the armed forces has been updated by the fact that we now have a temporary armed force until 7 June. Let's say that in a normal situation, the Norwegian police have to be unarmed. If there are any changes that would result in the police being armed in a normal situation, it must be decided by the Storting. There is therefore no reason to fear that temporary armaments should slip into a situation of general armaments. Norway has an unarmed police force, but the police have weapons stored in the emergency vehicles. That's a good basic readiness. The use of weapons, except in the event of emergency, shall be approved by the police chief. The Ministry of Justice has just completed a hearing on arms. The authority to issue arms orders has been proposed to extend to the operation manager the powers to issue arms orders. The proposed change has been widely accepted in the hearing and is otherwise also in line with the recommendation of the Myhrer Committee. PST warns in its threat assessment against increased terrorist threat to special groups, including: police and politicians. This is the basis for today's temporary armament of the police. There is no indication that the terrorist threat will continue. At least we have to hope that it goes over. Today's unarmed police system is solid. When the police have to be armed over a long period of time based on a concrete threat assessment, it is natural that the Storting should also be involved. The government is also asking for the government to evaluate the experience of the police in recent months. It is a fundamental position in our legal tradition that the police should not use stronger instruments than is strictly necessary in the current situation, cf. police laws § 6. The civil and unarmed police have historically contributed to the high level of trust that has so far marked the relationship between the population and the police in Norway. It is assumed to be reliable and conflict-relieving that the police are waiting for the longest time to use as powerful instruments as the use of weapons. But at the same time, it is unacceptable on the part of society for criminals to use weapons to implement, for example, power. rand and extortion. Sometimes the police need a very quick call-out to a crime scene. The current rules on armaments and access to weapons have been criticised for delaying police outsourcing and making an adequate and rapid response difficult. Police personnel and third parties may in such cases be placed in directly life-threatening situations. Furthermore, it has been claimed that an unarmed police force gives too little signal to the heaviest criminal actors. On the other hand, it is difficult to see that general armaments solve all problems. The question of the armed forces is not a simple question. It requires careful consideration for different reasons. The government is open to consider a general armament of the Norwegian police, but unconsidered conclusions are irrelevant. The government will base its policy on knowledge and facts. If new knowledge were to indicate that general police armaments are necessary, the government is also prepared to assess this. But there are heavy arguments to change today's police weapon practice. It's a system that has been shown to work well so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e265	The Progress Party wants primarily to give the police easier access to weapons and will open up general weapons to the police in the police districts that see the need for this. The Progress Party has been clear on this in the programme on which we have been elected, and we have also been clear on this in the comments on which this setting is based. The background to this position has been that we have realized that the threat situation has been exacerbated in recent years, not least as a result of radicalisation and organised crime by mainly foreign criminals. Globally, there is only a handful of countries where the police are unarmed, and globalisation means that Norway can no longer be unaffected by international developments. Both in Denmark and in France, we have seen serious terrorist attacks in recent months and police officers who have been killed or injured in service. So it's probably not for good reason that the police officers themselves, through the Police Union, have said clearly that they want a general weapon. That being said, of course, the Progress Party notes that we have a solid majority against our wishes for general armaments. That is why we chose to enter into a dialogue with the second government party, Right, and our supporting parties – rather than promoting our primary proposal – in order to reach a good compromise in the matter. I believe that what the vote says is a very good compromise, which goes in the right direction. First of all, it means that we need to gather information and knowledge, which is the basis of any subsequent decisions. And perhaps the most important thing for the Progress Party is that we are now moving parts of the competence to order arms from the police chief to the operation manager. It will make it easier and faster for the police in special situations, where weapons are required, to be able to access weapons. It is an incredibly important part of this position, which the majority support, and I am reasonably sure the Minister of Justice has noticed that this can be done. This will be very helpful for the police to be able to carry out the task they have been assigned quickly, in particularly demanding situations. The police are now better trained and equipped than when today's weapons instructions were laid down. This applies to operational personnel, operators at the operating centres and operational managers. So we're assuming that it's quite natural that there are now operational leaders and not just police officers who are given the opportunity to order arms. It is also necessary to evaluate the experience of the temporary armament. Such an evaluation should include a collection and assessment of the police's own experience with the use of weapons and studies on how it has been perceived by the population. So it's very interesting what's happening today through the investigation that's been done, and that's been published in the time of the world, how many are actually saying that they're feeling safe that the police are now armed in the situation we're in. What is under-communicated in the debate is how police response has been influenced by the fact that they have not had weapons available. I believe that this is a subject on which further research should be carried out, and experience should be gathered widely. Situations can escalate rapidly, and in extreme cases the lack of available weapons may lead to the loss of life. This is an important perspective to have in the debate. I also note the comments from the Labour Party in the vote, where it is believed that the Progress Party has abandoned its policy. Well, if you had read the whole setting, you would have seen that the Progress Party is quite clear on what is our primary policy. But it's not unnatural to take inward that you have the majority that you have in this room, in terms of access to general weapons. So we have chosen to make a compromise – including the rapporteur and the rapporteur’s own party have experienced what it was like, for eight years, sometimes to compromise in order to achieve some delinquents on the way to the goal. I am pleased that we have reached the compromise we have in this matter. I think it is a good attitude, as there is no problem for the Progress Party to support, even if we – like the Police Union – would like to see a different decision taken here today. However, the very information and evaluation we are now asking for in the setting may lead to a further change in the perception of what makes sense – above what we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e284	I would like to thank the case rapporteur – and not least colleagues in the cooperation parties – for good work and for good solutions. This has become a good thing, and today there are important decisions for the citizens and for the Norwegian police. General armaments is a demanding question. That's good arguments against, and that's good arguments for. In given situations, it is quite obvious that the best thing would have been if the police had weapons on their hips – had it quickly available. So the question of the advantages or situations where there's an advantage is more burdensome than the disadvantages of walking with weapons on your hip in a lot of other situations. For the Christian People's Party's part, we land in the last. We believe that there are too many disadvantages that one should carry weapons as part of the uniform, and that is why we have the proposal for a decision that we have, that we do not want to introduce general arms. In addition – as the rapporteur also pointed out, and as we say in the setting – it is a question of value. The question of arms is a question of what kind of police we want. We want the most civil expression possible. It has not been said that today's police are unable to handle the weapon that is, in a good way, but we believe that walking without weapons lowers the threshold between police and residents. That's why it's important to us. We are also afraid that it may lead to an escalation of the use of weapons in criminal environments if the police carry weapons over a longer period of time – that a person gets a negative spiral that causes a person to arm himself more and, in worst cases, to arm himself more heavily. It is always difficult to compare neighbouring countries, but we see that there is a completely different crime picture in Sweden than in Norway — I was fortunately saying that it is not so wrong in Norway in this respect — but it is at least clear that if one ends up in that situation, weapons will also be used more often. We believe that this is a good decision we make today. I'm glad that we insist that we have an unarmed police force, and I'm also glad that we establish that it's the Stortinget who may have to decide that one should be in favour of the general armaments of the police. So the police have to have the easy and quick access to weapons when they need it. In some situations it is absolutely necessary. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has been concerned that the use of advanced storage works in the best possible way. That is why I am also pleased that someone is doing something about the command lines, which both the representative of Haarek Elvenes and the representative of Ulf Leirstein were in the Chamber. The point is not that it should be as difficult as possible, but it should be a good arrangement where a person gets a secure anchor and that a person gets a weapon when he needs it. Moving parts of this expertise from the police officer to the operation manager seems to us to be a good and sensible solution, which has been widely supported in the hearing, as was also pointed out here in the past. We are pleased that a person should look at risk mitigation measures. One knows that other countries have used even more object and point protection than we may have been used to in Norway. We're happy that this is being investigated. It could also mean that in the situation we are today, we can move faster away from the general, temporary weaponry. Finally, some words about just the temporary weaponry. I want to make it clear that for the Christian People's Party, it is important that we do not change the authority that the ministry has to make the demanding decision it is when you get advice that the police should be armed. That authority is in the hands of the government, and it will continue to do so. Then, at the same time, we ask for an assessment of how to involve Stortinget in the best possible way when a temporary weapon becomes more long-term. The fact that that decision is also taken seems to us to be important, given the situation we have today, where there has been a relatively long period of temporary armament. The temporary armament means that more people need more exercise. This leads, for example, to: here in the house that there is the weapon of the police, which also totally requires considerable resources for the police. There is also a difficult situation for the police to handle, which I am pleased that the government and the Minister of Justice are busy with and have registered. It is important to provide the alternative measures, both because of the principal causes of armaments and also because of the economic situation because it is actually a costly scheme. But we don't know when a normal threat level is back. Maybe this is actually a new normal situation, but then at least it's important that one does the alternative measures so that we can get back to an unarmed police.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e301	The temporary armament of the Norwegian police since November 2014 implies a kind of prolonged and uncertain state of emergency. The Norwegian police have not been armed daily, as has the police in a few other countries such as New Zealand, Ireland and the United Kingdom. 5 800 policemen all over the country have been carrying guns before Christmas last year, and we don't know how long this will take. The order to carry weapons was a response to the threat assessment from PST, where police officers were just pointed out as a possible target group for terrorists. Giving this situation, with an open threat assessment where one sees that individual terrorists can attack individual officials, it is understandable that the police director and the Minister of Justice concluded that they have to give our policemen their weapons to defend themselves with. The situation of a police officer who is constantly being told to carry weapons to daily life is naturally forced into the debate on the general weaponry of the police. What makes this debate so interesting and so important is that it contains both professional questions, such as assessments of what general weapons could lead to in practice – on good and bad – and principled and value-based questions, such as what kind of police it is that we want in this country. In Sweden, a country that looks a lot like ours, but where the police are armed, we have six more shots than we do when we adjust for the population, and the number of injuries and deaths is so much higher. Experience from other countries shows that a police force who asks for guns daily leads to a more frequent use of weapons by both police and criminals. It is important to stress that Norwegian police are, of course, also normally able to access weapons, if necessary, in the case of ‘forward storage’ in a car, where one can use the weapon after being given permission by the police officer, or a representative of him. In the committee reading, we in the Centre Party, together with the Working Party, have stressed the importance of evaluating the practice of forward-looking storage, in order to identify his experience. In addition, we have proposed that the government should provide information on how general armaments can affect the way the police solve their problems. And most importantly, together, the two parties have asked the government to put forward a case that clarifies that general armaments of the police are not going to take place. This is in line with the draft representative from the Left Party. So there are several parties here that want clarification, and the positive thing is that the Right signal in the form of proposals that they want the government to maintain today's armaments practice with an unarmed police force. Only the Progress Party is clearly saying something else. The knowledge acquired by many in the committee is worth mentioning. The case concerns the use of weapons and potentially harmful and fatal situations. As Professor at the School of Police, Johannes Knutsson, has written in a chronicle at the NRK Opinion on 9 November 2012: ‘A common argument for armaments is that it protects the police. I'm afraid we're missing some good data here. But at the most tragic events in Norway in recent years, where three policemen have been killed on duty, the police were armed. The worst case in Sweden was an incident in which two policemen were executed with their own firearms — that is, nothing that strengthens the argument about general arms.’ As of today, we have the temporary general weapon to hold on to, and we do not know how long this will last. There is clearly one side to the issue that makes the whole thing difficult: the threat assessment from PST last year did not limit the situation to a few weeks or months, but to an entire year – twelve months. Is the risk suddenly much less when these twelve months have passed? Of course not. What should the Minister of Justice do if he receives repeated applications from the police director for weapons in the future? My point is that we can never know if it's safe. When it comes to all policemen's weapons, it's important that we stick to the reason that we don't have the general armed police from before. We have to be able to think both practically and in principle in difficult situations. And we need to implement balanced actions based on knowledge in order to adapt to the insecurity associated with terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e332	I would first of all like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur and the Committee for the good follow-up of the Left's proposals. Norway has a long and good tradition for the police to be civil and unarmed. One of the qualities of Norwegian society is the high trust that citizens have in each other and in the authorities. Of course, we must have respect and understanding that the organisation of the police must always take account of the crime scene at all times, but situations that require rapid access to firearms are already handled properly through the forward-looking storage system. Norway is today the only country in the Nordic region that does not have a full-armed police force. According to Professor Johannes Knutsson of the Swedish Police College, the police in Sweden shoot six times as often as they do here to the country, even if the population is taken into account. A survey conducted by the NRK in the autumn of 2013 showed that none of the police officers in the 27 police districts in Norway want a full-armed police force. They believe that general armaments will lead to the loss of civil character by the police, and that the police may risk taking the initiative in an arms race. In addition, they are concerned that the threshold for using weapons will drop if you are armed, and that it may be difficult to reverse a situation if you have first pulled weapons. Police officers also stress that the weapon may be a barrier in the performance of other services and daily tasks. The United Kingdom does not have a generally armed police force either. However, practices differ from those of Norway, as only a few policemen in the United Kingdom are authorised for firearms. Armed police in the United Kingdom are currently available in so-called 'armed vehicles'. This way of running unarmed police has been maintained in the United Kingdom even in the period when the terror of the IRA was at its worst, and it has great legitimacy in British society, including in the police. When even the United Kingdom has managed to maintain this practice, there is no need to introduce general arms in Norway. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the comments of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, where they point out that what the police are going to be able to use against our citizens is not just a police matter. It is also, to the most extent, a value question and shall be addressed accordingly. This means that democracy determines how democracy should be protected, not government or directorate or individual police districts. They point out that this is closely related to the police's social mission: they represent us, they protect us, and the key principles for how to do so are also determined by us. I think that's well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e349	Just because the general armament of the police is not just a professional question, but to the most extent a political and ideological question, a question of what kind of society we want and how we want to set it up, I would first like to say that it is very gratifying that the government parties have largely turned around and are no longer in favour of a general armament of the police. It's great because the fact that the police are unarmed to everyday life is a value in itself in a society like Norway. There is nothing to suggest that Norway is a less secure society than our neighbouring country, which practises general weapons against the police. On the contrary, there is, as several speakers have said, a much higher frequency of shooting episodes, for example. in Sweden, where the police are armed. I am convinced that an unarmed police force, which can be armed in special situations, is easier to contact for ordinary people. It is felt as closer to people in everyday life, and it takes care of the civil character of the police, which is important in a country where we are clear on how the monopoly of power works. The evening post has established in the leadership position that there is quite solid evidence that armed police lead to increased armed forces in criminal environments. It doesn't have to go further than to Denmark and Sweden to see it. As I said, there are several other representatives who have provided good examples of this, for example. Swedish police are released in 30 situations per year, as a 2012 survey shows, while Norway had two shooting events in the corresponding year. Researchers also say that there is point and object security – and not armed police themselves – that has largely prevented terrorism in the West in the last 10–15 years. In any case, armed police will often not be able to come and respond quickly enough. And since the recent act of terror in France was lifted by the representative of the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, it is worth just pointing out and noting that the policeman killed by terrorists during the attack on Charlie Hebdo was armed. In danger of being perceived as being polemic, I would also like to mention that arms can provide false security and make us rely more on the weapons themselves than the systems that are important in order to safeguard the security of society. I want to remind you that many of us here in the hall were present at the last Nobel Prize distribution. I think everyone can agree that there is no shortage of firearms in the surroundings around Oslo City Hall. However, it did not prevent a Mexican student – without significant problems – from getting all the way to the stage when the peace prize was awarded. Now he had only peaceful intentions, but in this context we should be pleased. There are a lot of other factors than weapons that play into our actual security against unforeseen and threatening events. I would like to give a brief explanation of vote on behalf of the SV: we are voting against the Committee's proposals 1 and 2. This is because we believe that the proposals of the Labour Party and of the Centre are clearer. To the Committee's proposal 2, I would just like to point out that evaluating a system that has worked for a few months and which is quite explicit a temporary system and an exceptional situation, smells a little too much political agenda for our part. There is nothing to suggest that we should evaluate the temporary armament of the police in Norway as if it were the normal state. The point is, it's not. We are voting in favour of the Committee's proposals 3 and 4. We are voting in favour of proposal 1 from the Labour Party and the Centre Party. We are voting against proposal 2 from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and we are voting in favour of proposal 3 from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e362	As a non-member of the Judicial Committee, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee for making it so clear that the basic rule of civil and unarmed Norwegian police is firm and undisputed. The fact that we have an unarmed and civilized police force in Norway is a very important social value, and there is no doubt that the Norwegian population appreciates that value and is proud of it. This is part of the social trust of Norwegian civil society, which is one of the things that makes Norway a good country to live in. That is precisely why it is important to be on guard when we are put in a situation where violent environments threaten us to deviate from such a value. Then it's important to stand firm by the fact that just such a threat will cause us to become further broken on behalf of such a value, as an unarmed police is, and be quite clear that the state we now have is an exceptional state. Of course, in the Greens, we respect the threat assessment of the PST and the police's perceived need for protection, but at the same time we are pleased that there is now no doubt that this is an exceptional state which will end as soon as possible. We therefore also support proposals 1 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e372	The issue of armaments for the Norwegian police is an important and comprehensive issue, and there are major political disagreements and differences of opinion about this, as the debate has also shown today. However, the attitude shows that it is possible to come to a rather unified view of the broad lines of this issue of a stretch – which I believe the majority of the Committee and the proposers have done in a good way. In the government platform, it is clear that the government wants an armed police force where it is needed, even in the normal situation. Proposals in accordance with the Government Declaration have already been consulted. At the same time, the government must recognise that both the media and the work on this proposal have made it clear that there is no majority in the Grand Duchy to allow for the possibility of general armaments now. Of course, the government will deal with that. It also explains the positions of the government parties in the suspension, which the representatives of the government parties have also been duly referred to from this pulpit. At the same time, I am pleased that the majority is clear that the issue of general police armedness should not adversely affect the possibility of armed police whenever necessary. This type of weapon is currently used, for example, in periods when there are specific threat assessments that make the police feel that it is necessary to have weapons for a slightly longer period of time. We're in such a situation now. The government is planning to file a case for the Storting to clarify the basis for such weapons in the police law. Although we in Norway have a very well-trained police force that also exercises weapon training annually, the relevant arguments are both for and against the general armaments of the Norwegian police. I note that the Joint Police Association is an important driver of general arms, and I think it is important to listen to those who are actually in charge of protecting citizens in the debate on arms. It is important to ensure that those who are actually going to do this demanding job are able both to protect others and to protect themselves. We have to remember that we have one of the world's most educated police, and that's why it's hard to compare with Sweden and England. It is not necessarily the case that armaments of the Norwegian police will contribute to a spiral of weapons, which several representatives have been involved from the pulpit today. There is also a point, for this Council of State at least, to say that I trust the assessments made by the police in such situations. I understand that policemen and women telling me about situations they've been in, which were initially considered to be completely harmless, suddenly evolve towards threats with both knife and firearms against the audience, that it's unusually demanding for civil servants – who are supposed to protect citizens – to run off from the situation and not get the situation under control. It's also an image that it's important to bring with it when discussing general weapons. At the same time, there are arguments in the opposite direction, and they have been presented by several from the pulpit today, among others. as regards how the police should appear with a civil character, and some are also concerned, as I mentioned, that the use of weapons can generally increase. In the proposal, the proposers state that Norwegian police must be unarmed. The working party and the centre party maintain that position by promoting the same position in the setting. In my opinion, there is a danger that such a proposal, if adopted, will also put clear limits on how the police can be armed in the kind of extraordinary situations we are now in. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee has included a clear line between the discussion on general arms and special weapons permits in this situation. It is also important to take advantage of the experience we have now gained with a longer period of armed police, and therefore it is wise to evaluate this, while at the same time looking at whether and in case how the Storting should be involved if such a kind of extraordinary weaponry will last for a longer time. I would therefore like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and a constructive approach to a demanding issue. At the same time, I notice the Workers' Party's somewhat strange approach to the fact that the cooperation parties in Stortinget are in fact finding good solutions together. I understand that it's frustrating, and I might also understand that it results in some subliminal statements both here in the hall and in the media, for which there is no basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e393	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e396	Thank you to the Council of State. As I said, Norway is a good and safe country to live in, unlike many other countries around us in Europe. We have a crime going down, and we're going to be very happy about that. Prevention is important. But now we have had a threat situation in Norway that has been going on for about a year. Six months, which has meant that we have had temporary general armaments in Norway. The representative Robstad was in his intervention that the situation we now have, after having had a temporary general armament for six months, might be becoming a new normal situation. How will the Council of State deal with it? Will it in any way change the threat picture and this view of temporary general armaments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e401	In a normal situation, we have an unarmed police force in Norway. It's being fixed in Stortinget today by a clear majority. What will be established at the same time today is that in special situations, where there is a threat assessment that makes the police think it is a basis for armaments, there must be an opportunity to provide that kind of weaponry. So this is pretty thoroughly regulated. A new arms permit in such a special situation must be requested by the Directorate of Police every eight weeks. I have made very strict demands on the Police Directorate in relation to the follow-up to ROS analyses in each police district to see how to implement alternative measures that could reduce vulnerability and help reduce the need for general arms. So this is closely followed up, and then we have to, I think, take the situation as it comes. I can't forge what PST's next threat assessment would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e408	I really have two questions. The first is a follow-up to a previous line. As the Minister of Justice says, he has been busy getting measures that can reduce vulnerability, so that one can release weapons. Now it's been going on for six months, so my question is, how far has one come with the alternative measures? And will the Minister of Justice possibly make such tough demands – he has not said so clearly now, but will he do so later on – that you can get rid of the temporary weapon? The second thing is, as I was in my post, that the temporary armaments require quite a lot of the police districts. We have also pointed out in the past that one must have more practice, but it requires more of the police districts – including here, that Oslo police districts must ensure that several objects are armed. What does the Minister of Justice think about the resource situation and the challenges this situation entails?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e417	Extensive work has been carried out in the police districts – a new ROS analysis has been carried out at the latest to assess which measures can be implemented locally in order to reduce the need for armaments. But it is important to realise that there are measures that can then be so good that they can actually replace that security, self-protection and the ability to intervene that temporary weapons provide the police. It's very demanding. But there is a thorough work to be done on this, and it is good, heavy professional assessments that underlie the assessments that are then passed on to the Ministry of Justice and Defence for decision. However, it is also demanding to find risk mitigation measures that are so comprehensive and good that they actually replace the need for armaments in the current threat situation. With regard to arms that require a lot of districts, I do not agree that it is the weapons that require a lot of districts; that is the threat situation we face. It is the threat situation and the threat picture that help one to have armed surveillance of, for example: The size. That's something we obviously follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e424	Thank you for your answer. Then is my follow-up question: When does the Minister of Justice expect you to be able to abolish a temporary weapon? I know that he himself is concerned about getting into such a situation. With regard to the alternative measures that are being discussed, which were examined: a long time has passed, and therefore we are all concerned that, hopefully, a return to the normal situation. It's also affected by the threat picture, I'm fully aware of that. But now, as the Council of State says, it is important to build up the measures that reduce vulnerability. One of the suggestions, which have been mentioned by several, and which we point to in the setting, is object protection, which is also costly to the extent. But it points to, among other things, by terrorists that in certain terrorist situations — which have been in Europe and which can be believed to be happening in Norway — it is the certainty of points that can prevent the terrorist attack. In any case, it is more likely that one can prevent it than by a general weapon, which one has had in some of the other countries, and where one cannot handle the situation in the same way as one would if one had had object protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e433	To the first question, I would say that it is completely impossible, in my opinion, as a politician to say when you are going to liquidate a temporary weapon that is situational based on a threat assessment by the professional authorities. I think it would be wrong for a Council of State to give a time perspective in this regard, because it will be absolutely crucial from what kind of threat picture it is about, and what kind of development a get of the threat picture. That is why it is absolutely impossible to say that a policy plan is to be laid down. It has to depend on the actual situation we're in. And we're still going to get updated threat assessments of the PST prior to any renewal of the weapons permit, but at the same time we're going to have to base what is the professional assessment of what kind of threat picture we're actually in. In terms of object protection, there have already been major changes in that area. This government has been very busy improving object protection. It has been implemented in a very good way, but measures have also been implemented in the situation we are now facing, where one has helped to improve watchkeeping, set up physical barriers, etc. It is also a work that the Police Directorate follows up in relation to these ROS analyses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e440	Now we have had this general armament of the police since November 2014 – a temporary regime that began with an added risk of terrorism. The period is now getting very long, and something temporary is easily slipping into something permanent. As society has developed, one will always be able to put together a more or less real terrorist threat, so the question is how long it is right to extend the temporary weaponry and when it is time to return to the ordinary system of forward-looking storage. I understand – with reference to previous questions – that it is difficult for the Minister of Justice to answer the length of this temporary scheme. But when we see a generally high threat of terrorism in Europe, it is nevertheless important, I think, that we hear from the Minister of Justice what he is thinking, what thoughts he has of the maximum duration of this temporary arrangement before it is about something that is permanent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e445	This is not a permanent weapon, it is a temporary weapon that is situational. To do something about the situational armaments, the situation needs to change. That means that I could almost imagine, President, sending the challenge back and hearing if the representative Klinge has a date for when she thinks that the period of temporary armaments should go out, because I think it's a derailment of the entire debate. We use temporary weapons as an instrument to ensure rapid response and self-protection for the police, based on the threat assessment now available. This means that one must either put in place other alternative risk mitigation measures that eliminate the need for armaments, or there must be a change in the threat situation in order to do so. I can't date it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e452	The Council of State was at the heart of its intervention — the same was also the representative Ulf Leirstein — that the primary position of the Council of State and the Progress Party was that the various police officers in the various police districts should have the opportunity to decide for themselves, on the basis of a professional assessment, and justified it by the fact that there are different threats, different needs or different hazards in the individual police districts. Now we are in the midst of a new police reform, and we will probably see a slightly different police structure in the future than the one we have today, with 27 police districts. Can we also experience – if it were to become a future policy – that the various police officers in the new police districts would have to assess whether there could be different municipalities and different regions in each police district that would be armed or not? There will be different needs, different hazards and different threats in each region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e458	The answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e463	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the good handling of the matter and the Committee for making wise decisions. In a civilised state, the police are the state's perpetrator. Each policeman and woman has a mandate from a democratically elected magnificence to perform forced acts on behalf of the Community. It is expected that the exercise of authority will give each of us safe working days and contribute to the restoration of wrongs committed against individuals and communities. The police are so important that it cannot control itself entirely. Choosing solid weapons or not dealing with conscious choices, and it's about values. It's about politics. And it is – as the representative Ropstad said in his speech – a difficult choice. In Norway, we have been proud of our unarmed police. There have been expressions of good traditions and values that our nation has stood for. The party of progress will choose general armaments. It gives more security and less crime, they believe. The Labour Party disagrees. We do not believe that a weapon such as a daily police tool is the means which neither can nor should determine the security itself. We do not believe that this is what ensures people's safety in everyday life, but that it is necessary in certain situations, is right. Norway has little crime, a high level of trust between the government and the people, small differences and a popular police force, which recruits widely from many parts of society. One of the police's core tasks is to prevent crime from happening. This is why prevention is as strong in the police as it is in the office and in the hands of the individual politician and police officer. Prevention is about visiting kindergartens and meeting young people in recreational clubs, at schools and in the Russian Age. It's about driving young people home, performing controls and intervening in threatening situations and calming people down. In all these tasks, Norwegian police are in a special position. In most of these situations, weapons are not necessary. In Kristiansand, in winter, there was a lot of attention in the media around it that an armed police officer came into a football tournament for children, because children and parents became alarmed. Before Christmas there was also a report in the newspaper where the police said they were skeptical about going into a Saturday night at a pub with a big need, many intoxicated people, and that the police would then have weapons on their hips. Scepticism also included entering threatening situations in order to calm down. It shows that these elections are difficult to take, both for policemen and for politicians. Weapons are important and necessary to secure people in more extreme situations. Therefore, the forward-looking storage mechanism introduced by the Stoltenberg Government is a good solution for both of these reasons. Fortunately, most of the quiet days in Norway — without serious incidents and without the need for weapons to be used in police duties. The working party meets an evaluation of the forward-looking storage system. We need to maintain good education, where police students receive good training in both conflict resolution and unarmed prevention, and empower them to use weapons when the situation requires it. The councils concluded their speeches by pointing out someone – I think he used the term ‘subtle’ – saying the Workers’ Party should have come along. I don't know what the state council is thinking about, but if there's a statement that this is a defeat for the Minister of Justice and the government, at least I think that such a clear defeat is neither subtle nor strange; it's quite obvious. The Minister of Justice says this is a compromise. Compromises I experience that if, for example. The Minister of Justice had taken the initiative of a broad settlement on this in Stortinget, then it would have been a compromise. Here the government has delivered a case. They have to withdraw it. It is the Stortinget that has promoted this compromise proposal – it is not something the Minister has taken on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e491	This is an important day. I would like to thank the Left Party for presenting the proposal for a representative who is moving the Right Party and the Advance Party away from the Sundvolden Declaration and for wanting to bring in general arms. The working party is opposed to general armaments, and there are particularly two reasons for this. The only reason is that this is a value question -- it's about what kind of Norway we want, and what kind of police we want. The second reason is purely practical, and it is that all the experience from countries where the police are asking for weapons on their hips is that more shots, more injuries are being done, and more people are dying. No country has been safer with more visible weapons in the streets. Of course Norway won't be either. So now we have a temporary threat situation, which has also meant that the police have had the opportunity to use general weapons. There is a discussion that itself does not belong at home in this discussion, which is about general armaments as usual. But since the positioning party itself has taken it up, both in the comments and in the debate, I would like to comment very briefly. We know that when it comes to the temporary threat situation, the political argument was both for and against general armaments. The Minister of Justice himself has informed me in reply to a written question: when a working group was set up in the Directorate of Police to look at this, the recommendations of the working group were not politically clear that a general weapon should be used. This shows that there is one room for action and more police professional arguments here. The working party is that one has a secret that allows the use of temporary general weaponry when the situation so requires. That position is also attached to the proposal we have put forward, which confirms that we are opposed to general armaments as an annex. The positional party has proposed to evaluate the temporary weaponry. What I think is the working party is natural to do only when the temporary armament is finished. That's when one has the basis to evaluate her, it's not natural to evaluate her now. We also notice that the positioning party does not propose to evaluate the forward-looking storage system, but it seems that there is a need to evaluate, because it is necessary to get that kind of knowledge on the table as well. Then I notice that the representative from the Progress Party, both in the comments and in the hall, indicates that there is a situation both in the country and in the world that requires the police to be generally armed at any time. One also shows in the comments on two specific terrorist events – in Copenhagen and in France – which I would like to comment briefly. There is no reason to argue that general armaments would have averted these specific situations. When it comes to Copenhagen and the situation at Krudttøden, we know that at such an event, Norwegian police too would be armed. When it comes to France and Charlie Hebdo, the police were armed, but the terrorist attack was still a fact. Secondary attacks may, however, be avoided because of the use of weapons, but – and this is an important ‘but’ – even in Norway, police would be armed with a secondary attack. It is the whole point of forward storage in cars that the weapon should be readily available if required. So the reasoning for the Progress Party, as presented in the comments, doesn't hold water. I'm glad they're all on their own at Stortinget about these comments. Finally, I record that today's situation with temporary armed forces with local adaptations coincides with the Progress Party's primary position on general armaments where the districts themselves are to determine. I don't make any bigger points out of it, other than registering it. I stress that the majority at Stortinget does not share this primary position, and I am pleased that this is confirmed by the decision today. Then we will take the debate on the temporary situation when the Minister of Justice later comes back with an explanation of the situation. Finally, I would like to say to the Norwegian police – with and without weapons, which protect people and democracy – that the Stortinget thank you for the job they do. And I'm sure I'll talk on behalf of all of us, across the political parties, when I say that we will manage the responsibility for you and for the security of the country in a conscientious way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e512	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e515	Let me first say that I am pleased with the broad support it is for the temporary armament, which is in the special situation we are in. Many representatives have been concerned that this has taken some time. I understand that, and I intend to come to Stortinget and explain the situation in which we are then in, if it becomes relevant with a further extension of this temporary weapon that is now in force. But I also think that there is a basis for commenting on a few of the last articles. I agree with Mr Henriksen that the examples she refers to show that these are complex issues and difficult choices to make. So, to a large extent, there will be a balance between value issues and practical considerations that will determine how this should be in the future, but I also think one should be open that this is a debate that will not end with the big debate today. This is a debate that's going to continue, about general arms, and I'm afraid we can get examples of situations, when we're about to get into a normal situation with an unarmed police and the police have to flee, which can put life and health at risk. It's also a picture that I think is being sub-communicated. So I would just like to comment on this slightly strange notion of what a compromise is: a compromise should then only be a result of the Council of State's initiative towards Stortinget. This is not how political reality works – fortunately! It is, of course, a proposal for a representative that is the starting point for this debate we have today, and the fact that the members of the Committee from the cooperation parties then seek to find a common solution are relatively common, and it is definitely preferable to have a split between the four cooperation parties. And that's why I think there are some ‘substantial’ statements that have come from the Workers' Party in that context. Then, too, matters that the government is promoting are the subject of negotiations in the Great Britain. We now have e.g. sent forward a police reform with an invitation to a broad settlement, we have a criminal service message with an invitation to a broad settlement, and there will soon be proposals for a revised national budget, which will be the subject of negotiations in the Grand Duchy. So it is not the exception that cooperation parties negotiate compromises; it is – fortunately – the general rule. Then the head of the Justice Committee was up and told us that it has an armed police force, more or less automatically means more shooting, and that weapons are used more often. There is some disagreement about that, and I think it is wrong to use experience from other countries as automatically transferable to Norway. There is another police force in Norway, which has a different type of weapon training and a different type of conflict resolution training than very many other countries. And so far, as far as I'm aware, it hasn't been significant unfortunate events with the weapons that have been -- so far -- and that at least indicates that one should think about before one comes up with the bastant claims about what kind of consequences this will have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e530	We have a police force today with a strong civil character, which has good contact with the audience, and that's very good. This means that there is a low threshold in terms of contacting the police, either on the street or at the police station. And it's also about what society we want to have in Norway in the future, how this relationship between police and the public should be in order to exchange information and provide feedback on the societal mission the police have taken in such a good way. It is important that the police are provided with sufficient resources in the future, sufficient resources related to the number of staff, related to this with competence and knowledge. It is not least about having new and modern equipment, and it is also about training, training in relation to the situation the police are in every day. And it's about security -- the security of the police, the security of the public and the security of the general population. The Progress Party and the Council of State also argued that the public and the police have changed their view of time after the temporary general armaments came into port in November 2014. Yes, it is also the first day that I met the armed police on the lion's tray, with weapons on my hip and weapons in my arms, so I thought this was a very strong impression, that this was going to meet me on the day when I went to work. But over time, one becomes, of course, kind of used to this. It's kind of changing the attitude about how this is, and it's saying something about how society's attitude also changes. That is what is important, and the longer this temporary armament becomes, the more attitudes change. But we also know that in the police, the law enforcement team and the police association there is a different view of this matter, and we shall take that. But I am very happy that the Progress Party in its comments also refers to the employee organisations and wants to listen to the employee organisations. This is something we in the Labour Party appreciate very much, and we are very concerned about taking employee organisations on board, and that is why we have done so in this period too, but we also think that the Progress Party in the future – in all questions – should take seriously the input made by the labour organisations in their decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e541	This case is an example of how biging and government has used their discretion in the best way. At the same time, I am a little surprised by the self-appointed provision of the Workers' Party, that in the foreseeable future one can conclude that the need to arm the police will always be absent. I think that's a little lack of humility towards the complexity of the situation we're actually set to deal with. The fact that we have a temporary weapon against the police today is a result of a concrete threat assessment. The debate on the armaments of the police cannot be freed from the situation in question. As I said in my main post, of course, we all have to hope that this is a situation that will go over, but we cannot foresaw that the situation will go over. That's why this case is very well suited to having two thoughts in your head at the same time, and not ignoring one thought and one opportunity in which society can actually change in such a way that we unfortunately have to see a police perhaps more armed than what we see today. It's an ongoing assessment we have to make, based on the information and the societal development we observe. Therefore, we must have humility for the complexity of this. And in general, I would say that compromise is a nobility mark of politics and of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e548	This is for the representative of Harek Elvenes. He tries to give the impression that the Workers' Party is against this with temporary general weapons. I believe that the whole Stortinget has been quite clear on this – in the decisions that both the Council of State, the Department and the police here have made. But when we have this situation here in the Chamber now that all parties in the Stortinget do not want a general armament of the police, we also expect the Council of State and the government parties to come back to Stortinget with how this should be handled in a proper and good way, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e553	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e580	No one has asked to speak on the matter. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e594	This is a simple and straightforward matter that has been dealt with effectively in the Committee. This is a good thing, where the department delivers a law that ensures that one can get an ID card issued. Most other European countries have a certificate of identity in addition to the passport, and here it is announced that a more functional ID certificate from 2017 can be obtained in addition to the passport. In addition, an electronic ID certificate must also be issued, but there is a need for further investigation before the final decision is taken. It is a unanimous committee that is pleased that this is coming. We hope that everything will go according to plan, and that it will not be too expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e603	I agree with the representative Ropstad that this is a simple and straightforward matter, but also some simple and straightforward matters deserve some attention in Stortinget. This is such a case. Last week we could hear about challenges related to checking the identity of Norwegian construction sites and the misuse of identity. This was not an isolated case. In 2013, 31,000 identities arrived and were stolen or reported missing. Since 2009, 140 000 identities have actually been stolen or reported missing. Misuse of identity is a significant problem, and it is related to crime. As the international police have developed methods to combat false identity, criminals are seen to adapt and be able to acquire genuine identity on a false basis. It's a serious challenge. This is a tool for both trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, terrorist planning and, in particular, social security fraud. National ID cards will be an important instrument in the fight against identity counterfeiting and organised crime. Today, passports are the only valid public ID documentation. The passport is initially a travel document to identify with foreign authorities. Norway has no obligation to legitimise, but we see a trend towards a greater need to be able to legitimise. It is in this context that the national ID card will be an important measure. It shall be issued in accordance with the same procedure and the same application as when applying for passports. In fact, another important feature and function of this card is that there is an opportunity for persons with foreign citizenship with the necessary connection with Norway who need to legitimise and display the Norwegian birth number to use such an identity card. It will also provide and ensure the quality of the documentation of its own identity. So the President and the representative of the City of Ropstad: a small matter, but nevertheless an important and good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e620	Let me first thank the case rapporteur and the committee for a quick and good handling of a matter that I registered the representative of the Elvenes said was ‘little’. But it's really pretty big, and it's pretty complex. It has been going on for a long time, and Norway is in the past with our European friends in terms of accessing one identity card in what can be called wallet format. It is quite right, as has been pointed out from the pulpit here, that the only valid licence paper we initially have in Norway is our passport, and it is little suitable for simple identification. I didn't think I would say so much more than to join the post of both the case rapporteur and the representative of the Rivers, but I would also like to show that it is with this identity card, which in a way is the physical proof of identity, that it can be decided – it is not decided – to add the e-ID. This means that it is a major step towards modernising the entire possibility of electronic identification as a complement to many of the arrangements we have today, but it also means that we are approaching some of the countries that have come very far on this. I had a conversation with the Estonian president a while ago, and he could tell me that he hadn't written either name or address on a single public document in six years, because he could use this identity card with e-ID, which solved all these challenges, and where you got the data in a simple and straightforward way. So this might be a small matter, but it's extensive, and it could have the potential to simplify and improve and prepare society in a significant way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e629	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e643	The work of amending laws like the laws of decoration may not be what appears to be the most exotic element of sitting on the Storting, but this proposition is an example of the rail's fraud. After all, the government is following rules that delay major societal projects in Norway. This is one such example of a rule that is a plug in the system. Road projects in Norway are often delayed for many, many years because of the need for a judicial judgment before anything can be solved at all as simple as a preliminary study on expropriations. Thus, after the decision today, road buildings in Norway can in many cases be shortened by many, many years. At the same time, the legal certainty of the addressee is well maintained. So this is one of many small and big examples of government simplifying, renewing and improving.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e650	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e664	The representative’s proposal to remove the blasphemic paragraph of today’s penal code was probably not difficult to support. He was already removed in the Penal Code of 2005 when he was treated. It is a paragraph that has not been used since the 1930s. No one is condemned for his use since 1912, and it is important to stress that there is no need for that kind of penitentiary in our day. Various parties have probably had different positions in this matter through history. To the extent that some of today's positions are expressed with great insight and pathos, I would very much like to briefly point out that the Right was too blasphemy in 2004, but against in 2009. The progress party was against in 2003, for in 2004, and then against again in 2009. Now we're at least there that all the parties are together to want to remove this paragraph. That's good. I'll say it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e671	I would also like to begin by thanking the Committee for its cooperation and for its speedy and effective consideration of this matter. This is – as the case-rapporteur pointed out – much more than a legislative synchronization of new and old criminal law. This matter is deeply concerned with freedom of expression. As one of two proposers, our starting point for the matter is very good from the case documents. However, I would point out that freedom of expression is not established for the protection of religions, political opinions or other types of grouping. There is a freedom established to protect individuals so that everyone can express their opinions, thoughts and ideas. It is a social value that is deeply rooted in democracy, and which with this proposal we want to raise, even if it has a short duration of action, because fortunately this government has put a high pressure on getting the new penal code to operate already until the harvest. It is that the blasphemy paragraph relates to religion. I would argue that the removal of the blasphemy paragraph is in the interests of the religions themselves, because all religions throughout history have been persecuted one or more times. And the practitioners of religions must, of course, have that security and security so that they can express their conviction, regardless of the use or abuse of power of the authorities. That's what this is all about. I am pleased that a unanimous committee, and therefore probably also a unanimous magnification, joins in this grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e680	Let me first comment on something that the rapporteur was about the stability of Storting, if I can use that term. It is quite right, as the rapporteur pointed out, that the Stortinget's knowledge and position are somewhat variable at all times. I think you can also find that if you check the Workers' Party's history list. But the case-rapporteur was unable to comment. I don't need to find any examples, but I can do it if there's a need. But I'll leave it. The first debate today, on arms, was, as many people have been in it, a debate on value. This proposal is the same – for my part, at least. Norwegian society has many qualities I'm incredibly proud of. Freedom of expression is one of the most proud. When we accept other citizens who come here, we underline that in Norway we have a tolerant, humane society where you can say the most without being punished for it, perhaps in great, great contrast to what some of those who come here have experienced in the past. And then we have a special responsibility to inform them about what the Norwegian system means. What does Norwegian freedom of expression mean in view of what you have with you experience from another country? Well, that means you can come up with controversial opinions, you can make claims without being punished for it. At the same time, the penal code limits how far you can go, and that is good, because you should not use the freedom of expression to commit an offence. It will be an abuse of freedom of expression. The freedom of expression can be there to provoke, and it sometimes makes it those degrees. But that, I think, is once again a quality. As long as they allow us to provoke verbally and stop there, that's a good thing at my discretion. It means that nothing is too big or too small to be discussed. It's one of the basic qualities of freedom of expression, from my point of view. As was said earlier, Stortinget has decided to remove the blasphemy paragraph. I think that's good, because if it were to be that religion was something that was not for criticism, we would get a strange society, we wouldn't automatically get a good society. I think we have to have the ceiling enough to discuss and dryly expose the Bible to criticism, we have to dry out putting the Koran to criticism. If we don't make some special areas that we really don't want. Another element that I also think is important: it has been talked about speaking responsibility. At my discretion, speaking responsibility is to use the freedom of expression. If that's the way to take care of what you're saying because you don't want to be obsessive, it limits us, and we end up with just politically correct expressions to be accepted. At my discretion it will be wrong. That's why I'm very pleased that the committee is doing what you're doing today, you're following up on what's been decided in the past. I think it is an excellent proposal which has been promoted and which is adopted later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e695	I can join most of what has been said, and will bring forth blasphemy, but also freedom of belief as an important part of freedom of expression. As a believer, it can often be tempting to defend your god, for it may in fact be offensive to see the intrusion or the mockery of anything you consider to be sacred. The Christian People's Party has therefore previously been concerned with this protection, even though the protection has been asleep in the current criminal law. But as a believer, I am also very aware that my God does not need protection. Me and others must respect the fact that there is a different view of religion, and that it is therefore fully possible to criticise what I believe in. It is an important part of freedom of expression to be able to criticize religions, and it is also not negative for religions to be challenged, perhaps on the contrary. It may be important to criticise actions that take place in the name of religions, hair-driving things like the death penalty for homosexuals, or one can take on equality, etc. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that we should have respect for each other, and that this also means that one should not necessarily use the private right to exercise only to injure others. Then I would also like to make it clear that in the debate on religion, where one often draws the negative sides, it is important that one has the freedom of belief that we unanimously say is an important part of freedom of expression. Faith is something positive. There must be room to believe and have different faith in this country. Therefore, I would like to stress that an important part of that value base is precisely that one can be allowed to express his faith. Freedom of faith is about being allowed not only to be a Christian or a Muslim or whatever it is, but also to be able to express that faith. We are fighting for that internationally, and we are also going to fight for that in Norway. To believe is something that is positive. In Norway we have had Christianity, and the Christian values have marked our country. There has been a huge transformation based on the Christian values, where a starting school, where a starting hospital, where a different drug institution, etc., and with non-governmental organisations that have built the country. It's important. But I also believe that in a debate in which we want to easily assert the right to criticize, and to the extent that we also violate the gods of others, it is important to stress that a large part of freedom of expression is about being allowed to express one's faith, even if one disagrees. It's close. That is why we support the proposal for a decision in the vote. Of course, in the new penal code, as others have said, it will not be a separate paragraph like this, and therefore I will also take the opportunity to give credit to the government for taking a case on the entry into force of the new criminal law, so that it will be put into place as early as October.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e713	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation and a very good result. I must say that it is very good to see that there is a unanimous committee behind this, and so I can join all those who have had posts before me today. But I'd like to stay a little bit at the last post, the representative Roppstad's posts, because his reflections on what kind of protection our own feelings need or don't need are one of the core moments when the Blasphemi paragraph is now going to be lifted. This is not just about someone criticizing the gods of others. A core area related to this, has in times past been criticism of their own religion and of their own god and the ability to release discussions, which we have had earlier this winter, where some have said they are ‘for freedom of speech, but...’. This concerns the right to freedom of expression and the limits on which it should apply. We have had politicians and other social debaters who have been more concerned with protecting matters other than freedom of expression, and there have been demanding debates. In this respect, I believe it is a very good measure that is actually being adopted today, by pre-empting the entry into force of new criminal law. So you can ask, what is the need, and why is it necessary to do this now? Well, that's because this is precisely the result of the debate that has been in public space over time, where there has been a debate about where the limits of freedom of expression should initially go, and where at least there has been an impression that someone thinks that that limit should be more narrower than what a unanimous increase now implies. Then, of course, you could say that it's a reconstructed problem, because the blasphemy paragraph has not been used for a very, very long time, etc., but the public debate around this has been an important factor in making a unanimous increase now actually do this. That's why it's important to put this into effect and make this change, because it shows something about the Storting's attitudes to opinions, which are not misunderstandings, even though there are only a few months left until the new penal code will come into force, and how the blasphemy paragraph will be removed. However, it will still be punishable by new criminal law — and even after this decision — to make hateful or discriminatory statements against someone because of their religion or outlook on life. So that provision will of course continue to be maintained, but the blasphemy determination, which in a way protects religious feelings in itself, will be lifted with this. I think it is a very good response from Stortinget to a public debate that has progressed over time and is now in many ways put to rest, for a total increase shows that there is no one who is «for freedom of speech, but...». Now the Storting is for freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e728	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e757	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e764	As rapporteur-in-Office, I intend to explain the views of the majority of the Committee. I expect the representatives of the minority and the proposers to speak to representatives in the Chamber who will market their own position. A few months ago, I was visiting Romania. Among other things, I had conversations with the largest organisation of Roma: the National Agency for Roma. The leader of the Space People’s Own Association, Daniel Vasile, used the same arguments that the Progress Party has used for years: Tiging contributes to the stigmatisation of space people, sementing poverty, and begging means that children have to stop education. Of course, Romania has a ban on begging, and Vasile encouraged me to make sure that we immediately received a corresponding ban in Norway. The solution to the poverty problem as a result of begging is complicated, difficult and requires multidisciplinary thinking. A ban is presented by many as the morally high-value option. A speck in the debate has been expressed as 'we cannot ban poverty'. Allowing begging is in no way the same as getting beggars out of poverty and into the middle class — rather the opposite. Divorce contributes to the absence of skills, work experience or self-respect for already poor people. To allow begging is to accept that large groups will never be able to get out of poverty, and that is a position I cannot stand for. The Progress Party therefore primarily wants a national beggar ban. But I note, unfortunately, that there is no majority in the Stortingen for a national ban. However, it is positive that the government, in cooperation with the Centre Party, opened up the possibility of municipal bans in the spring of 2014. The local authorities have the opportunity to adopt a beg ban, strengthen local democracy, and allow the local population of the municipalities that are most severely affected by aggressive begging to emphasise this in local elections. Removing the possibility of adopting local beggar bans, as proposed by the proposals, would be to weaken local democracy. I am therefore very pleased that the central party still chooses to stand on the part of the municipalities in this matter, along with the government parties. The restraining order has been an important matter for both the Advance Party, the Right and many voters, and it is therefore essential that we now retain the possibility of adopting this locally. Both the Oslo police and a large group of voters are concerned about recent developments with increasingly organised begging and crime related to this environment. Organised begging often brings with it crime in the form of serious crimes such as coercion, trafficking in human beings and the crime of profit. The Labour Party has tried to minimize the relationship between begging and organised crime – which I record from the notes – and believes that the arguments of the Advance Party and the Right are approximate as to the extent and extent of begging, and that there is no strong link between begging and organised crime. Here it should be enough to refer to the Kripos report Organized Crime in Norway — Trends and Challenges 2013–2014. Here are the following: ‘Oslo police districts have identified a number of issues in which there is a link between begging and profitability. Persons engaged in begging are also sighted/judged for the crime of profit and/or have found themselves living or staying in the same places as persons who pursue the crime of profit and where they are also kept the property of thieves. The same environments are associated with gross thefts and ransacks of jewelry from the elderly’. The government parties refer to Kripos’ official reports on this matter, and there is nothing approximate in these pure renderings of pure facts from our most credible police sources. The free movement of persons across borders through the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement means that today’s beggars are, to a large extent, EEA citizens. The solution to the EU’s poverty problem is not to allow begging in Norway, but to help more people out of poverty in their home countries. The path out of poverty does not go through begging, but through education, work and equal opportunities. That's why I'm glad that the government, with the support of the Center Party, has been very clear on how to set up the EEA funds to help people where they live and where they're going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e791	First, thank you to the case rapporteur for handling the case. As the rapporteur himself said, there is a difference of view in the matter. I shall then produce what is the Labour Party's position on this matter. Firstly, the Workers' Party has not changed its mind since we had the case of municipal begging up last year, in connection with Prop. 83 L for 2013–2014. The notes in its setting apply. Then I just want to point to an incuria. It says that the Workers' Party is part of the majority in the comment that the begging ban does not violate human rights, EMK, but we're going out of that section and into the next section. In the case of begging, there is no disagreement that there is a difficult situation to be in and that it is initially an undesirable activity. But when we figure out how to solve it, our paths separate. I want to point to Kristiansand, who has just come up with other ways of dealing with the begging question than using a ban. The Archives Foundation - History and Peace Centres, together with voluntary, non-profit and religious organisations, have cooperated to help make begging not a lifelong activity. They have merged to organise overnight offers, sanitary conditions, work and sales of self-produced goods. There's another way to solve this than prohibition. It is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that one cannot forbid misery. We fully agree with that. The question of whether we're going to ban the activity that misery actually puts people in, is what we're discussing here today. I record that in the previous position the members of the Progress Party and the majority of the hearings from the police showed in order to justify what they think is organised crime. Now they're using Kripos's report to justify it. The proposal for a national beggar ban issued by the government at the hearing also included activities concerning a redefinition of the term ‘organised crime’. After this proposal, for example: the fact that people bisto drug addicts with overnight accommodation and transport related to it — as one thought to be organised begging — could be in the search for the definition of organised begging. The working party believes that there is a wrong way to go. The Labour Party also believes that of course it is the criminal who begs. Of course, the addict who begs is the one who commits criminal acts. We do not disagree with that, but we strongly disagree that this requires a comprehensive ban on begging. We are very pleased that the government's proposal for a national begging ban was withdrawn, and that the government also found in that case that they had not listened to these solutions in the people or at the Stortinget. The working party is also very much to help more people. Education, work and social welfare measures are important. There are some of the major shortcomings in which many of these people live their lives, which make them think it important to make sure that they live their lives and theirs through begging. That is why we believe that our reasoning in the previous case we had applies today. We therefore support the proposal – together with the Christian People's Party – to lift the local begging ban. I just want to say that it doesn't look like there's a screaming need for this in society. There is one municipality that has it – the municipality of Arendal has lifted the beggar ban: Lillesand in Aust-Agder – a Right-Steering municipality – has adopted the beggar ban as the only municipality in Norway. I don't think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e817	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e820	Yes, the President can be sure that the representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e825	The representative of Kari Henriksen has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e828	Last year the government proposed to give the municipalities the opportunity to systematically prohibit begging. The road from then until today has been slightly chapped, but when the dust has settled in this case, we are left today with a law that is both sensible and sensible. In the course of last year's negotiations, it was an inevitable demand from the Central Party that a proposal for a national beggar ban be followed. This went right with, along with a certain dose of doubt. It is clear that there are fundamental aspects to banning begging at national level. I will admit here – as I did in last year's debate – that there are not all arguments for a national ban that are equally strong. On the other hand, I think it is much easier to argue that the municipalities should be able to regulate this issue themselves. There is a big difference between banning something across the country and banning something in a demarcated geographical area, which also takes account of local conditions and needs. Last year's law decision follows a good tradition in Norway where we give municipalities the opportunity to take local decisions that allow local politicians to provide security in their communities. Both the Prime Minister and several others have described the possibility of a municipal begging ban as a safety valve. I think that's a good description. We have seen examples in Norway in the past that there may be a sudden and acute need for municipalities to deal with situations such as: travelling organised beggars, e.g. in Oslo, 2012. A local ban can then be one of many instruments used in those situations. So it is that we live very well with the outcome of the case. The road here may deserve a little comment or two. I will not hide the fact that it has sometimes been a little frustrating to experience that a consultation proposal is being dealt with and referred to as if it were a decision on size. Most Norwegian politicians know that there is a clear difference between what is a consultation draft and what is a legislative proposal. There is a lot of Norwegian political history that has been sent out to the hearing without necessarily ending up as government proposal or decision making. You can mention everything from big reforms to small things such as the ban on cheek eggs or tax on BSU interest rates, etc. If consultations are to be treated as if they were legislative decisions or as if they were policy-making, it becomes difficult and unpredictable to hold a substantive political debate. I believe that if the proposal for a national ban had been sent from the government, I am quite sure that we had managed to find a well-balanced and sensible proposal here in this Chamber. The cancellation of agreements in the light of consultations sent out should not become a general rule. From the Right point of view, we can live well with the law that is now going to pass. There's another promise from the government platform that's fulfilled, and that's 100 pst. in line with the ambitions we had last year. I'm going to end by giving some brilliance to the Center Party. There are many parties in this room that hold celebrations about municipal autonomy. When it comes to voting, however, there are very few times you find traces of those parties. In this case – and in other cases, also this week – the centre party shows that there is a party that should be taken seriously in order to give municipalities greater powers to govern themselves, as well as the continuous policy of the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e839	It has been said very well in the matter, and what is important for the Christian People's Party is that one makes the most possible to help those who beg – that one avoids begging. The important question to ask, I think, is what is the problem. If the answer to the problem is that there are people who are poor, then one must have social measures to combat social distress. If the answer to the problem is that it is crime or disorder of order, then one must have criminal policy instruments. Our answer, both to the question and in the debate, is that one needs social policy instruments to help those who beg, and one needs criminal policy instruments to stop those who do criminal acts or are a major concern to the population. That's what we had before one at all started to impose different beggars, so that's to say that there's a police officer available today. None of us think begging is good. The best way out of permanent poverty is work. The alternative for beggars is often to commit other types of crime, because they live in poverty. This is a bit of a special debate, and I see that the different representatives are biting off a little bit, not to say what they really think, because this has been a special touch. So I would say that when a reader reads the comment from the Center Party, it also actually brings the story back to before this Stortinget. I think the Minister of Justice said that in the debate we had last year, that when it came to the discussion of bans, there were some parties that had already introduced parts of a ban. The Christian People's Party and the Left voted against imposing a ban on time and place, and as the Center Party pointed out, the Red-Green Government introduced it. And as I see the Workers' Party today, one goes away from the ban that applied to the time and place, and I'm glad. I expect that it is a turnaround that the Workers' Party is going to be on. But it's also weird to look at the Center Party. I don't have the habit of writing so rough remarks, because I think the polemic should be taken out in the hall. However, when the Central Party departs from the agreement that was concluded, and it explains that ‘the hearing clarifies that today’s law is good enough to combat human trafficking and crime’, everyone – as the representative Frølich also stated – understands that it was too difficult to stand in the debate – because it is quite possible to change a letter of consultation to a completely different matter, either from the government or from the Stortinget. So it's like you don't want a national beggar ban. We remember all the debate on the local proposal, where the representative Klinge is quoted as saying that the local ban is a 'weak and strange proposal' and one was clear that the programme for the Central Party said that a wanted national ban, not a local ban. Then I can't get it to vote that when one goes beyond the fact that one wants a national ban, because one believes that there are other instruments that are good enough to fight human trafficking and crime, one should nevertheless stand on a local ban that one thought was not working, and against which one really is. There is something in principle here that I think is completely wrong, and therefore I am disappointed that the centre party chooses to stand on the local ban. At the same time, I want to have full respect for the fact that parties should make their own assessments, but I had hoped that today's debate would have led to one going away from the ban line and saying that yes, begging is a big problem for the individual, and we have to do more: social measures in Eastern Europe, etc., as pointed out both from the government parties and from the majority in this room, and also here in Norway – that one has to get more social measures to help them, but that one could get away from the ban. We have a different view of this, but I believe that this is at least an important part of this story. That is why the proposals for representatives are here, because both the Christian People's Party and the Left saw that the Senter Party turned itself around, and then the natural consequence would be that one turned around completely. I also disagree a little with the representative Frølich's favour that this should be resolved locally. My entrance to that is of course more principleal. We discussed freedom of expression instead, and there are many who have pointed out that this too may be contrary to freedom of expression and the last right you have; to ask others for help. Therefore, it should be at this room to decide it, not each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e860	This case concerns the possibilities for municipalities to refuse begging within their own municipal borders. Before the summer of 2014, Stortinget decided to extend this possibility. During the red-green government of the previous ageing period, it was possible for municipalities to ban begging in parts of the municipality and at certain times of the day and week. There was something unclear for the municipalities what this could mean, so it is fair to say that the change in the law before the summer last year made the rules clearer and easier to stick to for the municipalities. The centre party has turned its back on national beggar bans — several have been involved. But that's just the way it is. One can stand on his side, and when one turns, one has a turn. Because we've turned around, there's no national ban on begging in the Storting, as it was. But we are in the process of changing the law we agreed to adopt last year, which applies to the municipal bans. It is reasonable that municipalities should be able to regulate this themselves on the basis of local conditions and assessments. A small comment to the representative Frölich was in on the hearing document versus the roll-out decision. There is, of course, a big difference between that, but in some cases the content of the listener's draft will be decisive for how the government's intentions are perceived. In difficult cases, such as this, a hearing document can start a debate with its own dynamics, which gives a different result to what is expected. And that's just the way it is. We in the Center Party stand by what we did last year, and I think – as a comment on what the Ropstad said – it is important to stress that there is not a great deal of change from what was done under the red-green government when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre opened together in order for the municipalities to adopt local bans, but then in parts of the day and in some places in the municipality. It was also said by a former Minister of Justice that it was possible to open up begging in the entire municipality, but it was actually unclear legal how it could happen. I think it was a clear reflection of the promise that was made last year. I can stretch so far and say it, because it makes it easier for the municipalities to stick to the legislation. It's a point itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e869	I wonder how we politicians, or how some politicians, manage to get there, wanting a national ban on begging, and when it falls, giving room for different practices around the country where begging can be banned. I wonder what's going on in the emotional register of those who want to ban begging. So the world's best country, our nation, should not tolerate seeing beggars on the streets – because that's what it's really about. We can't see them. We're being plagued by them. And that's why some people want to ban them. It's social renovation -- we have to call it what it really is. Some simply find it disgusting and horrible to see beggars on the street. It is not possible to combat poverty, crime and social challenges by banning begging. Typing is primarily a call for help. No one likes to beg. In 2005, a unanimous increase in the Law on Disposals was lifted. It was the current practice of begging that this was decriminalised until the Stortinget in June 2013, with the voices of the then Red-Green Government – the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – adopted changes to the Police Act so that the municipalities of the Police Statutes can lay down conditions for the collection of money. On 16 June 2014, the Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Centre adopted amendments to the Police Act which allowed the municipalities to provide in the Police Code that begging in public places should be prohibited or subject to more detailed regulation. The representative Ropstad has done a pretty good job for the story around this, this has gone a lot of rounds, and I'm joining in on what the Rupstad explained to. However, we in the Left share the Centre Party's assessment. As they withdrew from the proposal and turned around in a commendable manner, they just said that we share the assessment that today's legislation is sufficient to combat trafficking in human beings and other organised crime and therefore considers it valid in terms of both municipal and national begging bans. We hoped, because the Senter Party was turning around cheaply, that the same argument should also apply, not only for a national ban, but also for a local ban. The left has voted against all changes and tightening of beggars and beggars since the law was repealed in 2005. A ban on begging, whether national or municipal, will not solve the poverty challenges, we believe, either in Norway or in Europe. There are completely different instruments that must help us to achieve this. Social problems need to be addressed through social tools and measures, not through penalties and bans. Divorce is a complex problem, which must be solved through international cooperation and targeted social measures in the tiger’s home country. The core of the problem is not solved by simple and superficial means as a ban. In the long term, work needs to be done internationally to meet the challenges of begging and poverty. In the short term, a minimum of human dignity and humanity must be ensured through practical measures. It's often like when we get here in the hall, there's almost no one turning around after participating in the debate. We make our views known – and this is part of democracy – we argue for a long time, and often the debates go beyond what is far. It's very rare that someone turns around. But if you're going to find a case to turn in first, it's just this one. I hope the centre party listens to their own argument, as they argued when they turned the case over to the national ban, and see that it also applies to the room. Maybe this could be one of the few things throughout this big year where a party turns after coming to the Chamber and listening to the debate, that it is not just that we have a debate for the sake of the debate. That's important too, but it's even better if the debate can actually help change positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e887	Norway also has a previous history of uninformed and vulgar political debate in the United Kingdom, where foreign minorities and Norwegian minorities are produced as hordes, as an uncontrolled flow towards the country, and where undocumented claims of a link between these groups and crime form the basis for adopted policies. We've tried that before. It wasn't that good. Therefore, I will openly admit that I was very happy – I will even admit that I felt a great deal of damage – when the government did not get through to a national begging ban. It was a victory for the propriety of the Great Ring, a humiliating defeat for the Minister of Justice, and I am going to treasure this day throughout this great period. Of course, I fully support the proposal to suspend access to municipal beggar bans. We vote for it, the whole SV – of course. No one thinks begging is a good thing for society. None of us want more begging, but we have to admit that for some people begging is the only possibility – even the homeless have to have food, even the poorest of us need money – to meet their basic needs. Prohibiting begging is trying to ban poverty, as the representative of the House was so well into it. And that doesn't work. The right-hand side that usually lectures on the inviolable freedom and economic freedom of the individual pushes on to prohibit people from asking for help. When they don't get through to doing it nationally, they do it locally. Thus, you get a legal state where people in need of their ability to ask for help are different from the municipality to the municipality. It can't be said to be very principleal, liberal right-wing policy. If you go down a tradesman in Norway, the big money, without any restriction, will get to you to get your money. They sell tran, electricity or training subscriptions, and Justice Minister Anders Anundsen is not violated. But when the Roma beg, then it's a serious matter, then it's election vows, then it's one of the main causes of the Justice Minister's party, then there's a ban to be imposed. It's by no means principle, and that's something we're going to look back at in the history of the Great Britain as a sad chapter of this government's operation. Not only have representatives like Ulf Leirstein repeatedly hung out space people on his Facebook page and drew national attention to it, you have even a second leader in the same party who has said that he will refuse space people access to the kingdom. That's the background for this debate, and that's what makes it so incomprehensible that the Central Party, when they're first in the process of turning around and taking a decent and reasonable position, can't take the road completely out and say, you know what? We were wrong. This is not a good policy. The centre party shall continue to have the possibility of suspending the entry of local authorities to prohibit begging. In the debate on beggar bans, there are often arguments that local beggars are actually criminals or organized by criminal beggar gangs, but there is no evidence of a relationship between begging and crime. I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice to finally present his evidence that there is a connection between begging and crime – a link between the beggars you can see on the streets of Oslo, and crime. We haven't been able to see that now, and I'm waiting in breathless excitement for the Minister of Justice's posts. It is probably not accidental that the Right Party management opposed the adoption of a beg ban both nationally and locally. Nor does it seem as if the representative Frølich bubbles of enthusiasm in defending this policy. Here, the management in the Right and the more decent parts of the Right and the Center parties have ended up in very bad companies. They've ended up in companies with a party that likes to campaign for demagogic agitation against national minorities to cut cheap votes. It is tragic that a centre party is involved in giving legitimacy to that party's attack on minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e906	If I fall out of the Storting at the election in 2017, and I don't get a job because I'm old and gray, and I have a little bit of extra unhappiness so I end up in the street, then I'd like to live in a community that allows me to stretch my hand and ask for some help. And then I wouldn't want to live in a society that forbids me that help because I'm asking for it, even if I were to join someone else, and even if I were to organize a little bit. Is it reasonable for the municipalities to decide on this? No, it's not. It should be a national matter that Norway is a country where requests for help are allowed. Fortunately, only one municipality has introduced this ban. It says a lot about the heart rate and propriety of Norwegian municipalities, and I thank you for that. Yes then, I think it is directly intrusive ever to be confronted with people who have it so bad that they have to sit on the back of the pavement in the middle of winter for many hours to beg. It's probably some of them who are criminals, and there's probably some of them that are more or less organized. I think I would also try to stay if I had been so bad that I had to beg. But we can't forbid people to ask for help, either nationally or municipally, and no matter which party proposes it. That is why I agree with the call to the Center Party to complete the reverse operation and leave this order. The Greens, of course, support the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party to abolish access to municipal beggar bans.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e917	I want to start by taking a distance from Serigstad Valen's articles in both form and content. The Stortinget discussed a proposal in Prop as recently as June 2014. 83 L 2013–2014 on amendments to the Police Act relating to begging. The debate was extensive both in front and after of the proposal. The arguments that are now being put forward as justification for the two representative proposals were also put forward in the big debate last year. After the debate, the majority adopted a change in the law which allowed the municipalities to determine in the police regulations that begging in a public place should be prohibited or subject to regulation. Thus, the amendment was in line with the Government Declaration and with the Government's proposal, which stated that the government would allow municipalities to impose a ban on begging in local police regulations. The representative Serigstad Valen had earlier stated that he believed that the Storting had made decisions on an uninformed basis earlier, and that it did not work very well. At the same time, he shows by his post that he is relatively uninformed about the fact of the matter. Thus, the government took the lead in its proposal and policy, and then the Stortinge adopted a proposal for a national ban, and it would be strange if the representative Serigstad Valen felt that the government should not follow up decisions taken by the Stortinge simply because SV is against them. So the government got through. The reason why the government subsequently withdrew this consultation proposal was that the party that was the strongest driver of this national begging ban drew its support for this national begging ban, and there was therefore no majority in the Stortingen for such a change. So I find it hard to understand that it should be to impose a humiliating defeat on the government and the Council of State when the government and the Council of State have actually taken advantage of the proposal promoted by the Storting. But I understand that there are several people who want to create the opposite, but that's not going to be more correct for that reason. Today’s debate does not bring about significant new elements or arguments in relation to the round that the Storting had on these issues in the past. I have noticed that the proposers and several of those who have made contributions today have underlined that the ban on begging does not solve the social challenges facing many of those who are begging in Norway. It is not difficult to agree, but at the same time we do not solve the challenges of allowing begging. Proposalers generally point to the need for international cooperation in order to meet these challenges. This is the broad political consensus, which includes, among other things: reflects the government’s use of EEA funds to improve the situation of poor people, especially in Romania. Then I would like to mention that the Workers' Party has attacked a national begging ban, and they are now going against a local begging ban again, but they have themselves argued that there should be a local begging ban, but then it should only be between certain time and in certain streets. One of the most important arguments against such a system is that it is completely impossible to enforce from the police side, and it will only help to move a potential problem from one street to another. I find it difficult to understand the poor logic of the reasoning when the Workers' Party argues as they do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e936	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e939	First of all, I can register that a few days at work are good and others less good. We may have to characterize this as a not so good day for the Progress Party, where they see in white that they have lost two things, one about general armament and one about national begging ban. But I want to ask the Minister of Justice about the following: the Progress Party likes to talk about organized crime and begging as two sides of the same case, and that these pages are inextricably linked to each other. In the past, representatives of the Progress Party, both from the Chair and in the form of a note, have referred to police and media statements, and now reference is made to Kripos’s report. Can the Council of State establish — with the weight and credibility of the Council of State — that there is a documented link between begging and organised crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e946	I am very happy that I have all, most of the good days at work, and it is a good day today also if you look at what the government actually gets for in these matters that have been treated today. I understand, of course, that the Workers' Party needs to express itself in a different way and pretend that the government is going to suffer defeat, but I think you're going to take that kind of characteristic with a pinch of salt. When it comes to organised crime and begging, for example: to refer to the report of Kripos, as the representative of Leirstein did, but it is also possible to refer to a research report from NOVA, which indicates that in both Norway and Romania, persons and groups have been convicted of trafficking in human beings in the context of begging. That report also states that the extent is uncertain, but it concludes that the information available suggests that trafficking in human beings for begging is an increasing problem. It is also interesting to note that there is a verdict in Oslo District Court – which I can't say anything about now, I look at the time, but I might come back to that when the representative Henriksen has had his second line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e953	Yes, a little spice is always good at the defeats – it might sour the pill. But when the Council of State refers to the type of report, it does not answer the question I had — is there an unambiguous link between begging and organised crime in Norway? Is there a link also between, for example: Norwegian drug addicts begging and organized crime? Is it in the same loop and does it fall within the definition of the Council of States? But the main question that the Council of State can answer is: Is there an insoluble context, politically documented, between begging and organised crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e958	Since the question was the same, I can continue on that reasoning. Because when the government presented this letter of consultation, at the same time, a verdict fell in Oslo District Court where a backer was convicted of threatening a number of victims to beg and steal separately. The verdict shows that there is no need for a view of very high profits because the backers are willing to use violence and threats to force people to beg. So more precisely, does it mean that there is an unambiguous connection, that everyone who begs is also victims of human trafficking or organized crime? That doesn't mean that. So there may be different reasons why people beg. That doesn't mean that everyone who begs is a victim of human trafficking, that doesn't mean that everyone who begs is part of an organized criminal network, but that doesn't mean the opposite either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e965	That the Council of State feels like taking a break from my post, I take on this matter as an honorary designation. State councils shall be given the opportunity to distance themselves from several. In April 2013, the Legal Spokesman of the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, wrote on Facebook: ‘On the way to Oslo. As I drove past the parking lot on Black Forest, I drove and counted 12 large vans belonging to a large group of gypsies. It will probably be pleasant for residents and tourists to stay in the capital this summer.» If there is any doubt about what Leirstein meant by this, we can go to his blog on 18 July 2012, where he describes the ‘invading of Romanian beggars’, and on 13 July 2012 the invasion of Gypsies. Does the Council of State distance itself from Ulf Leirstein's use of words?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e977	The Council of State considers that representatives are given an opinion in the manner that they themselves consider reasonable and take responsibility for those opinions in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e982	This is a bit alarming, because the representative Ulf Leirstein belongs to the same party as the Council of State. The Council of State just felt like correcting the language of the signatories, but when a representative from his own party refers to a minority as an invasion for political purposes and in the election campaign for the Council of State's own party, the Council of State does not have any meaning. I repeat my question: will the Council of State distance itself from the statements made by the representative of Leirstein on gypsies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e988	I think that the words of the representative, Serigstad Valen, from the Chair fall into a very separate category, also because they are promoted from the chair from which they are promoted. The answer to the second question I gave instead: I believe big-time representatives who speak on social media, must themselves be responsible for the opinions they have, regardless of what they may say and mean there. I wouldn't express myself that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e993	That means that if the representative of Leirstein had spoken in exactly the same way from the pulpit of the Storting, it would be more critical than if he did it on social media, and that therefore it is not the content of what he says about minorities, per se that is important, but what clothes he wears, and what pulpit he presents it from, which is the point. That's how I interpret the Council of States. But I want to ask the Council of State again: he says he would not use the same terms as the representative of Leirstein, I believe the Council of State would not do that. But does the Council of State distance itself from the mention of minorities by the representative of Leirstein?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e998	The representative Serigstad Valen has to interpret me the way he wants to, and then those who read the record will see what is actually in the record. And then I just repeat the answer I've given to the representative three times: I didn't want to express myself that way, but representatives who speak both from the pulpit and on social media have to be responsible for those statements themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1003	The cord shift is over. – The speakers who are given the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1008	Let me start with the debate showing a strong commitment, and I won't doubt any of the representatives' genuine commitment to this matter. Here are the good intentions that have found different answers – the intentions are the best, the desires are the best of all, anyway. And I would also like to pay tribute and tribute to the parties that have promoted the proposals we are discussing here, the Christian People's Party and the Left. They have always – in any case – voted against a beg ban. And now they're doing that. I want to underline that. So I would like to take a little reservation with regard to the representative Raja, who draws the majority in this matter's emotional life into the debate. That's what I think is a wrong debate technique, to put it mildly. Then I look back a little bit: on 18 June 2004, SV promoted a proposal for a representative to repeal the Law on Disposal. It was subsequently suspended by the Stortinget in 2005. Then the prohibition of begging was out of Norwegian law. On 10 June 2013, the Red-Greens in this Chamber, which then had a majority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, decided to reintroduce the begging ban in Norway. Then we got a new ban on begging in this country. The representative of Serigstad Valen was present and voted in favour of that ban in June 2013. Was it decent of SV to vote for a beg ban in the square, that the municipality could adopt it, but indecent now? Was it an outrageous representative Serigstad Valen who voted in favour of a beggar ban at gas stations in 2013, but which is in principle against today? And was it a demagogic agitation from the representative Valen, who voted in 2013 for a beg ban at T-Bahn stations and against today? We have to see the story, and I don't think this pulpit should be an arena for historylessness. That is what I think this debate is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1017	I would refer both to the speeches by the last representative and the Minister of Justice, which pointed out that there were similarities between the proposal put in place by the red-green government in 2013 and the municipal ban that is now in place. The Minister of Justice was in his intervention in logic and the ability to have more thoughts in his head at the same time, and if the Minister of Justice does not understand the difference between the two legislative proposals, then it might have to be less logical. The regulation of the law introduced by the previous government was a regulation of the activity – it was not a ban on the act. There's a difference in substance in the legal context. I'm not going to answer for SV's views – they can certainly do it by themselves – but I want to say that for the Workers' Party there is a significant difference in regulating an activity that is about collecting money in public spaces. Finally, I would like to say that the debate has shown that there are clear political dividing lines in the positions relating to the action itself, which the Labour Party perceives is a result of distress and misery. We cannot forbid distress and misery, but we do not have to ban the actions that make people use begging as a means of survival. There we have different settings and different positions. It's just to register after this debate has gone its way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1026	Now we got a fresh attempt at a diversion from the representative, Werp. In meeting the mention of minorities by Mr. Werp's own colleagues in the Progress Party, I think it is alarming that he is using the forces to be excited about a 2013 law decision that was not a ban, as the representative of Mr. Werp suggests, but as the representative of Mr. Henriksen was right, a restriction of activity. So I'm going to be absolutely honest that it wasn't SV's primary position either; it was a compromise, as the representative Werp would like to call out in an outrageous manner, where the Workers' Party and the Centre got an impact on the restrictions they wanted, and SV got an impact on social measures of a completely different magnitude than the Right and the Progress Party seems to be interested in. In the meantime, the Workers' Party has made clear its opposition to a ban on begging, which, if anything, made it possible to decide that there is a clear single left-hand side of the Stortinget that is opposed to the government's inviolable prohibition policy. As far as demagogic agitation is concerned, there's some of the points here. Many have been accompanied by a national or local ban on begging in Norway. Many in the Right have been. I know that the representative Tetzschner has been a driver for it, while others in the Right have been opponents. Many in the Centre Party have been the proponents of such a ban. But the Progress Party stands out. The party of progress stands out because they single out a minority and attribute negative characteristics to this minority that everyone else does not have, as an argument in itself, to prohibit an activity that escapes from need. It is the lowest form of political agitation, and we see how uncomfortable the Minister of Justice becomes when he is confronted with the agitation that enabled the Minister of Justice to have the next majority of his policies. That discomfort should also be felt by the representative Werp, because I think most people in the Right are very uncomfortable with the way Ulf Leirstein and others in the Progress Party have hung out minorities to get political support for a beggar ban. The problem is that no one in the Right dares to speak to them. Now they sit in government together, and then they choose quick rhetorical solutions towards SV instead. It's quite illustrative, and it's not just this case. A few years ago, it was Right – not the Workers' Party, not SV, not the Environmental Party of the Greens – that compared the report of Muslims by the Progress Party with the report of Jews in the 1930s. It was the leaders of the Right who did, among other things. Per-Cristian Foss. Now it's silent from the Right, while the Progress Party is pushing its agitation against minorities. I think the Right is going to be ashamed of that in the coming periods of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1037	This I must admit was one of the strangest fogging attempts I've heard from this pulpit. In 2004, SV proposed to remove the law on prosecuting. In 2013, SV was involved in prohibiting – and I quote – ‘gathering money in public places’. I don't think this is begging. So what is it? It was quite clear in the proposition, in the debate and in the vote of the Justice Committee in 2013 that this was about begging, and that the municipalities themselves could define both the time and place for when they could ban so-called money collection in public places. And it was clarified by the then Minister of Justice that squares, communication nodes, gas stations and shopping centres were included in that definition. So we hear that the representative Serigstad Valen is trying to talk this out, that it wasn't begging – it was something quite different. Then I have to hear: what was something else? What is fundraising in public places other than begging – in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1044	I myself had the floor in the debate to which reference is made when the proposal of the Red-Green Government was discussed. We voted against it, with the clear conviction that this was a proposal to ban begging. It allowed the municipalities to determine it and to determine the time and place. We remember all the debate that someone wanted to ban begging within Ring 2 in Oslo, etc. As the representative, Klinge, it was said – she was also a member of the Justice Committee during the previous period – that this could mean prohibition throughout the municipality, but it was not legally enough anchored. So I can understand the argument of Klinge in her posts earlier because she chooses to do as she does today, even though I am disappointed in it. But one thing is what happened then. Now I am at least happy that the Workers' Party has gone away from the ban line. I'm also glad that SV has gone away from this ban line, and I had hoped that the centre party could have done the same thing, so we could have got a majority in this room. But when one is first working on this story, or the description of the matter, I will at least come up with my version of it. I fully support what Mr. Werp also says. That is how Storting discussed the matter, and that is how the law was. That is why I had hoped that we could receive support for our proposal, which would help to ensure that there was no ban on begging.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1051	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1054	Misappropriation is the representative of Werp himself. The problem with his argument is that it can be equally powerfully promoted against warp's own prime minister, Erna Solberg, who voted against a national ban and a local ban on begging at the Højre national meeting. Will Werp go up to the pulpit here and use the same terms about Erna Solberg? Will he call his own Prime Minister equally imprincial? Of course he will not, because he knows how political decisions are made. Few people are more happy than I am because the Workers' Party has demonstrated its opposition to the prohibition of begging since 2013. It's a fig leaf Werp now clings to, that the red-green government – because SV was not the largest party in the government – did something of the same thing that Werp will now do on a much larger scale. There is a weak argument for an outrageous policy, and I notice that, in spite of many calls, Werp does not have a clue as to the way in which the Progress Party has referred to national minorities in order to bring this policy to an end. That's illustrative enough, and it's going to be embarrassingly affected by in the party's future history.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1060	The entry for the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen refers to an overall left-hand side. I don't think either the Christian People's Party or the Left feel all the way to the left, even if the Left has the proper name. We are a liberal party, and we are radical. That's why we have a pretty hard time saying that it's going to be possible for everyone and everyone to beg for money to get an organic internal file in Norway. Several representatives have pointed to the clear line of the Left for a long time. This is not a debate on block-sharing. The Right and Advance Party struggle with this is to get someone from the left to get a majority – whose left side is the Center Party, the Workers' Party or SV. Now it's not happening today. It is still possible in Norway to sit on the street and ask for money for an internal file.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1067	The representative, Anders B. Werp, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1070	This concerns the fact that the representative Serigstad Valen voted in June 2013 to reinstate begging in Norway. Then, at least, I feel that the same representative Serigstad Valen today uses strong characteristics of those who believe the same as the representative Serigstad Valen voted in 2013. I experience it as trying to talk away from the matter and its previous voting, where the representative was involved in reintroducing begging. Tightening ceased in 2005 at the time of the ban. It was the red-greens who reintroduced this with SV's voices. That's what the matter is. That's not the way to talk away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1075	It has been interesting to listen to my former committee colleague and colleague Snorre Serigstad Valen on this matter and his history description. I think it is interesting to think that he mentioned the Progress Party and the Right Members in the way he has done now. Maybe he should go back and think a little about how SV has behaved in different matters, cf. minorities. Some of us remember the way Olav Gunnar Ballos manages the Finnmarks Act with a certain interest at the time. I do not say that he did something wrong, but I say that he was obviously not on the party line in that case. I then sat on the Foreign Affairs Committee together with the then Depositary Representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who was very clear that the Finnish Law was a good law. It is well allowed to say from here that the then representative Olav Gunnar Ballo was not as unambiguous in his conviction. And you might also say that when it happened to them from SV's big group who demonstrated against their own government outside here. It was, of course, within the freedom of expression, and it's certainly okay, but then to claim that others are insolent when you talk about something SV doesn't like, I think it's an interesting and strange description of history. The progress party has the ceiling height and the dare to stand upright for the things we stand for. In addition, we have full confidence that the Council of State will make the steps that he and the government consider appropriate. That doesn't mean you always agree, but we have our backs to stand upright for the different positions both. And the Progress Party has not stood outside here and demonstrated against its own government. That's what SV has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1084	A debate with a high temperature can be refreshing. I hope that we still approach the end of this discussion. I just took the word to say that when, on the part of the Right Party and the Advance Party, it was repeatedly produced as if the municipal bans were the same as those adopted in 2013, it is all the harder to see the need for the changes they wanted. Then it's probably not right from the Right and the Advance Party's side to present what they've proposed, as the great political saying that they're now trying to sell it as.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1089	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1103	It is a unanimous committee which gave its opinion after examination of the annual report on the 2014 judicial remedy system. The judicial compensation scheme is the Storting’s own scheme, where individuals may apply for discretionary compensation from the State where they have been found to be particularly unfortunate and have suffered damage or disadvantage that is not covered by general compensation rules or by social security, insurance or compensation schemes. The scheme is based on custom. The cases are decided by the Board of Governors for Judicial Remuneration, and the State Civil Court administration is entrusted with the task of secretarialising the sample. In 2014, 442 applications were received, compared with 602 in 2013. This is a decline of 27 pst. The reason for this decrease in the number of applications received is largely due to the fact that fewer applications are received under the special schemes adopted by the Stortinget in 2005. This is a natural development, as candidate groups under the special schemes have been treated to a large extent. Furthermore, the Committee has recorded through the annual report that the duration of the procedure is still relatively long, although it has declined slightly compared to previous years. The Committee therefore expects that lower access to cases should result in a further decrease in the duration of proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1114	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1128	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1133	The background to this matter is the journalistic work of the Evening Post on possible false base stations in social critical infrastructure. It's natural to divide this into two parts: the one is the actual situation, and the other is the general work of public actors responsible for our common security. When it comes to actual relationships, there is a contradiction between the Aftenpost's findings and the PST's findings. It is outside the role of the Judicial Committee itself to investigate this, so we take note of the conclusions of the PST. When it comes to the responsibilities and work of public operators responsible for security, it has at least three dimensions. The one is different public etatas between, the other is between public etatas and private actors, and the third is between civil actors and military actors. Finally, little has been updated in this specific matter. In this context, we see that the Minister of Justice has set up a working group to look at the interface and responsibilities of various actors responsible for security. That's good. At the same time, it is difficult to read this differently from the fact that the Minister of Justice agrees that there is a need for further clarification of the responsibilities of various actors responsible for security. The work of the working group is limited in time. The need for clarifications will be evolving, in line with the increased technological possibilities to be able to pose a risk to individuals or society and on a general basis, to the security services and actors responsible for the security of their general work, because their work is so largely based on privacy and mandate, and because it is important and politically desirable that one, of course, remains safe within the homes of one. However, there may be an even greater risk that some potential risks may arise between existing homes or between existing mandates, and that the need for a working method capable of identifying any grey areas between services is strong, so that, if necessary, it can be raised to political clarification. That this is not superfluous shows both the management that some actors had in public when the cases were first rewritten by the Evening Post, and the Minister of Justice's own creation of a working group in this field. With this, I will address the suggestions from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1148	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for a thorough examination of the Committee. The rapporteur has explained the matter, and I will not repeat it, except that I will emphasise and highlight the approach that the evening post had in its reports on the matter. It's a kind of critical and digging journalism that I think is absolutely important. When the case then goes on and PST can tell you that so far you have found nothing but normal activity, we should of course take note of it, but the journalistic approach I still want to say that the evening post deserves tribute for. Perhaps you should put in more reservations – that will show the time. There are two aspects to this matter that I would like to highlight. One is that it makes vulnerabilities visible in society. Technology, on the one hand, gives us enormous opportunities for value creation, jobs and other benefits, while on the other hand opening up new back doors, risk factors and uncertainties related to security and privacy. So this goes hand in hand, and as a society we have to make sure that we meet this in a way that allows us to balance both the possibilities and the risk factors in a good way. We will never be able to eliminate the risk of the technology 100 p.p., because this evolves all the time, but we probably have to be even more conscious – even in this house – of our own use of information. That's the one side of the case. The other side of the matter is the question of responsibilities and responsibilities, on which the rapporteur was quite precise and correctly concerned. That is why I am pleased that this government has emphatically put that topic on the agenda. In this case, reference is made to a working group set up by the government, just to look at the responsibilities. In addition, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Defence earlier, in winter, started work on a review of the Security Act, which is an important piece of legislation that regulates many of the same responsibilities as the representative Tajik had in mind. In addition to that, I would mention that the government has reduced a digital vulnerability selection, which will affect many of the same points. The sum of this shows a government that really takes this seriously, which is systematically working on the matter, and which has invested considerable resources both to identify the risk factors and to clarify the lines of responsibility. When the majority of the committee does not support the proposals, it does not express a disagreement as regards the subject matter, but rather a visualisation of and a reference to the government working in a targeted and systematic way along the lines of which we are all concerned, namely that responsibility should be clear and clear, and that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1164	The thing we're dealing with now is about important values in our society. The right to travel where one will, at the times one will, and with whom one will, without being monitored, are fundamental freedoms in a democratic society. In order to maintain a high level of confidence in the population, it is essential that you feel secure that you are not being monitored — either as a private individual or in work context. This is essential to ensure the proper functioning of society, both for business and for the public. It is important to prevent the loss of sensitive information. There was therefore a great deal of concern when the evening post reported extensive use of IMSI catchers in the vicinity of important societal interests, without at that time being able to explain who was behind it and what its purpose was. Together with the other opposition parties, the Christian People's Party sent letters to the Minister of Justice and Defence asking the Council of State for an oral statement on the facts, what had been done to prevent the monitoring of important social interests, and how the government would handle this further. The ratios of the evening post have been mentioned are still under investigation, and we cannot conclude on what has actually happened. But I have registered that the PST in its statement has stated that they have so far not revealed any illegal activity, and indicates that the findings of the Evening Post have been presented are the result of normal activity at the relevant base stations. However, there is great reason to stress the seriousness of the matter. If we are to succeed, it is necessary that we prevent and detect far greater levels of illegal surveillance, as well as that we ensure clearer lines of responsibility between the various actors with security responsibilities. It is therefore with some concern that I note that the head of the Swedish Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Control Committee, EOS, Eldbjørg Løwer, has stated: ‘No one perceives that they were responsible for preventing this monitoring.’ If this is true, it's a big problem. It is essential that the responsibilities are clarified and that they remain within the existing legislation on sensitive issues such as these. I am therefore pleased that the government has appointed a digital and vulnerability committee to propose a new legal basis for preventive national security. It is essential to succeed in this work that the proposal being drawn up ensures a comprehensive, robust and forward-looking prevention framework that takes account of technological developments, demographic changes and changes in the safety profile. With regard to the issue of warning obligations and professional secrecy, it is essential that the police, including the PST, follow the decision of the Stortinget when the Econom Act was adopted, namely that the confidentiality provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act do not prevent the warning of the echo authority and the providers. I expect the Council of State to follow this closely and ensure that the police comply with the applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1184	Either you are a politician or you are not: being monitored is being subjected to a specific intervention. Illegal surveillance threatens our democracy, and if we get the impression that it's taking place, there'll be doubts as to whether the authorities are able to protect the inhabitants. When the matter we're debating today was covered by the media, a big question mark could be set by the way the security authorities handled the matter. There was also a lot of reason why the Minister of Justice had to come to Stortingen to do the right thing. Illegal surveillance is serious no matter who it is directed to, but things get a completely different dimension when it comes to the fact that whole central social institutions can be monitored. It's a little regrettable that the media, in this case the post office, are the ones that defy it, and not the security authorities themselves. A central task for them is just to protect us from illegal surveillance. The evening post discovered them by means of relatively simple equipment. The size has to ask itself the question: is what has come out, good enough, and is that how we want it? False base stations outside of Stortinget, the government offices and the Prime Minister's Office are, of course, something we don't want. Then the question becomes what is possible to protect against, and what can be done to avoid this. I'm inclined to show understanding that PST and other security authorities point out that they can't prevent any kind of illegal surveillance. Nevertheless, I would strongly warn that they are demonstrating something that can best describe as responsibilities powdering and powerlessness, as was done when the Evening Post went out with its findings in December 2014. As I pointed out in my article in the word change after the announcement from the Council of State earlier this year, there are today unclear boundaries between the various intelligence services. Despite the fact that I risk being a little self-employed, I take the liberty of quoting myself, from my post on 7 January, where I said: "Now I understand that the security authorities and our intelligence can't expand everything they do, and everything they don't do, but it's an advantage if they do what they're supposed to do, and that they communicate in such a way that it's said that they individually and collectively have control." I hope that the Council of State will come up with this, how he will ensure that the State actors in this field are co-ordinated and coordinated, and that at any time it is clear who is responsible for what, and preferably also that they are able to communicate this out, so that when we have reason to be safe, we are confident that our security of communication is as secure as possible. I ask the government to spend time and efficiency on our security services, and in this way make sure that we preferably avoid such situations in the future. I also expect the police and the PST to intensify the work to prevent surveillance, whether it be from foreign countries or others. This issue has evolved and has not been completed yet. I hope that the investigative work the evening post did, if one should call it that, will bring about the implementation of any changes that could be made to reduce and, preferably, prevent illegal surveillance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1206	In my statement to Stortinget on 7 January I informed that the authorities' work on this matter has followed three steps: investigation, working group set up by Nkom and working group set up by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Transport, I now want to give the Storting a short update, because that's the only speaking time allowed. In the case of investigation, on 26 March 2015, the PST presented the investigation status related to the material on which the Evening Post had built its conclusions. Contrary to what one got the impression when the representative Klinge just stood up here, as if what the evening post revealed was the facts, the PST has concluded something different. They have provisionally concluded that no indications have been found of the use of false base stations or IMSI catchers in the underlying material on which the Evening Post has based its articles and in the measurements by the Evening Post in cooperation with several security companies. The PST cooperated in this work with the NSM and the E service in the investigation context. PST also clarified that there is no reason to believe that the activity of the PST or other police in using IMSI-catchers has had an impact on the data the post has based its conclusions on. PST also stated – I think it is important to underline, as several speakers have pointed out – in this publication of the findings of the investigation, that the use of false base stations is probably only a small part of the methods used by foreign countries for intelligence purposes. The position of the Judicial Committee — a couple who have addressed this issue here too — mentions the issue of the rules on eco-labelling by using mobile zones. The Labour Party and the Center Party criticize the government and me for clarifying this relationship too late. That's a bit of a stupid criticism, I think. The ministry worked on this issue before it was updated in the media, but there was a need to deal with the matter thoroughly, and it becomes a little special to point out what the previous government thought about primacy between the provisions, when they actually left behind a law in conflict. With some better craftsmanship from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Swedish Government, this doubt would never arise, and there should be learning in it, even for eager opposition parties, which, while they were in government, should have cleared up this. With regard to the working group set up by the National Communications Authority, it has completed its work and the results of the two main tracks of detection and protection measures are now further addressed in the Nkom. As regards the working group set up by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Transport, it has now delivered its report. The working group has concluded in brief, including: the following – and I am asking some people in particular to note this: Responsibilities in the field of mobile security appear to be clear and not different from those in other areas. The ECOM authorities shall provide well-functioning mobile networks and echo services and ensure confidentiality, accessibility and integrity of mobile networks, according to the Ekom law. Police, including the PST, shall prevent, detect and investigate criminal activities. The NSM shall ensure that information and objects protected by the Security Act are secured and prevent infringements of this Act. National communication authority and the police appoint themselves as the main actor. The working group suggests that actors agree to develop guidelines for dealing with different types of cases. The Ministry of Justice and Defence will follow up on the start of this work. The working group recommends that a certain capacity be established at Nkom in order to detect false base stations. Within its area of competence, the NSM sees the need to strengthen and further develop its own capacity. NSM is already building up its capacity. This also shows that the services in this way cooperate better and closer, and I'll get back to it a little bit. I think it's also important to include some learning points after the Evening Post's publications. I see that the evening post office is not in the press department today, which shows that the matter started with quite a high lead and has ended here, with posts from representatives who do not even fill the speaking time. That's good, because it shows that the situation was not as serious as it got you worried about when the evening post did the job they did. This does not mean that that job was of little use, because it was absolutely not – it brought the focus to an area on which it is very important to focus. And in the case of that series of articles, the way the evening post worked, I think is a good way to work, even though some conclusions might have been a little bit off early. This helped to bring forward an important and correct review of vulnerability from an overall perspective to see if we can solve these problems better. As I see it, the services responsible for the different parts of the issues now will cooperate better and more closely than they did in the past, that is good, and there is no doubt that the article series of the Evening Post has at least contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1274	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1277	There were probably many of us who blocked up both ears and eyes when the evening post may have revealed false base stations in the backyard of the administration apparatus. What this really has been or is, the investigation gets answers to. I would like to commend the Minister of Justice for having answered very fully in writing the questions raised by the Justice Committee to the Minister. I'm very calm when I read many of the answers, for example. the following: ‘Both PST, other police and NSM are competent to detect false base stations/imsi-catchers.’ When I read on in the document, I became a little troubled by a reply given by the Minister: ‘Some people are responsible for identifying and removing sources that may interfere with or block legal electronic communications. This also includes equipment that could threaten network integrity and confidentiality, such as fake base stations.’» And then the point itself comes: ‘Some people do not currently have equipment that is particularly suitable for searching for false base stations.’ The Minister was aware that responsibilities and authority related to the control activities in this field are perfectly clear, and that is very good. However, it is also important that those responsible for detecting this type of installation should also be equipped with the technical equipment they need to do a good job. I expect that the minister will now follow up, and that we will hear more about it when it is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1300	I thank you for the discussion, and I would like to refer to a few things that have been said during the debate. The Minister of Justice believes that the previous government apparently left itself a lack of clarity in the relationship between the obligation to pay and the obligation to give notice. The answer to that is simple: No, the rules on lex specialis are so simple that a law student can explain them. In addition, this relationship was clarified in the preliminary work of the law in question. In other words, we have a Minister of Justice who doesn't recognize a rematch when he sees him. The second is that it appears that the Minister of Justice does not understand how important it is to clarify roles and responsibilities between different services. There is nothing new – we have also seen repeatedly in the debate on culture and leadership that we have had in the context of the police reform, where he has not seen the need to clarify roles and responsibilities, which is one of the most central steps to ensure that responsibilities are clear, that culture is protected, that it is led in a good and satisfactory way, and that one also takes care of the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission relating to paragraphs 25 and 26, which is about the fact that the security service is also to be creative and forward in the solution of the problem. I want to remind you that people who don't understand the problem are very rarely also able to solve the problem. I also note that the Minister of Justice criticises some representatives of a lack of time in this debate. He is well even a good example that being rich in words and being rich in content is not always the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1309	That, I think, was a well-reflected and well-thought-out contribution from the head of the Judicial Committee. For the sake of the review, I'm going to write irony in parentheses. I find it demanding that one simplifys the issue of conflict of law, because there is no doubt that it was actually a real conflict of law. I don't think it's worth it by the head of the Judiciary Committee to compare the Riksadvokaten and the PST lawyers with a Judiciary student. I think it at least shows that you are not taking seriously the real problem that was at that time. At the same time, it is part of the story that this has been prepared and cleared up, and there is no doubt that the PST should deal properly with the environmental warning obligation, as all other actors have to do. Then I did not criticize the lack of time spent by the representatives. What I said was that this is a matter that has taken a lot of fissile millimetres – it has been a lot of lookouts, it has received a lot of political attention. That's good and right. Then, fortunately, I'd almost said, we're in a situation where the matter no longer has that topicality, because PST's investigation so far shows that there has been no hold on those claims and investigations. I really meant it as something positive in this context, but I see that if you want to misunderstand, you can do it. Then there was a comment to the representative of Riveres, who raised the question of Nkom's capacity to conduct these investigations. Someone is under the responsibility of the Minister of Transport, but the working group that we have set up jointly has made a recommendation that this type of capacity should be put in place, and the recommendations of that working group are something we should follow up from the departments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1320	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1337	Up to 80 pst. the population has one or more backsicknesses during life, and about 50 pst. have had such plagues in the last 12 months. The 2014 Public Health Report demonstrates that cross- back pain and neck pain are among the five leading causes of year-on-year health loss in Norway. Back disease is the largest subgroup of new untrained persons according to Nav. Bad back is still the individual disease in the healthcare system that ‘challenges the most, costs the most, but also the easiest to deal with, if we use interdisciplinary competence and prioritize primary health services’. Each year, around 2 million back-related consultations take place in Norway. It represents a major challenge in the clinical everyday life of doctors, physiotherapists, manual therapists, chiropractors, ergot therapists and other health professionals. New guidelines have been developed for optimal and knowledge-based management of the individual back patient. An important part of the new guidelines is good communication and interaction with patients. The new guidelines are largely based on international, new competences – not in Norwegian – and are also recommended in the new guidelines to make better use of available resources through multidisciplinary cooperation. Before becoming a full-time politician, I worked with inclusive work in Nav. From that I learned incredibly much, as one would think that as a politician I had known before, because I was a freelance politician next to the job. I brought with me, among other things.\t\t You can change the 70 pst. is associated with muscle and skeletal disorders and mental disorders. There is a unclear limit and relationship between muscle/skeletal and mental disorders, both because long-term pain affects mental health and because mental disorders get into the body. Therefore, good multidisciplinary treatment arrangements will be able to capture and provide help to master the individual, so that you get back to work and to the most normal function. Increased knowledge of back disorders led to a number of people getting the right diagnosis. There is a lot of prejudice and taboo about mental disorders, and it was more socially accepted to say that you had hurt your back than to say that you had mental disorders. This also gave rise to new knowledge, correct diagnosis and proper treatment for those who needed more treatment for mental disorders. Most sick people had a expectation that a simple surgical procedure would make them quickly rid of the pain and come back. It was a challenge for the doctors and also for Nav to say that the chance of getting long-term complications was very high, and that it wasn't the surgery that was the best procedure. What proved to be most effective was occupational health and multidisciplinary treatment, where the sick person was recommended to return to work as quickly as possible, or to remain in work, and to establish good cooperation between the employee, the employer and interdisciplinary treatment including ergonomic planning and practical ergonomic skills training. The measures must address specific problems and actively involve the employee, the sick or the patient. In addition to sick people, we know that today there are far more young people struggling with muscle and skeletal disorders. However, we have also been told – and most recently at a meeting to which the Minister of Health invited us in February – that new knowledge of the elderly shows that there is a clear link between functional capacity and quality of life. Strengthening muscles may be more important than measuring blood pressure in the elderly, as the doctor explained in the meeting. Sick leave has been on the agenda in all Nordic countries. I remember that we recorded the differences between the Nordic countries in the proportion of diagnosis associated with back disease. It was quite surprising, as we live almost the same life and have the same challenges. If it is due to differing attitudes and cultures, or if there was actually a different focus on building up knowledge environments, I have not answered, because unfortunately Norway has not prioritised building up knowledge environments linked to muscle and skeletal disorders in the extent of this. In particular, Norway does not train its own chiropractors, when it is precisely chiropractors who are the second largest profession of physiotherapists who treat just muscle and bone. Lack of educational environment for chiropractors and spread and sporadic research environment on muscle and skeletal weakens our ability to provide good and health-promoting treatment, improve the quality of life of a large proportion of the population, and not least improve prevention. There is not much we know for sure about the prevention of musculoskeletal disorders. The context is weak. We have too little research-based knowledge, but we're assuming it's related to heavy lifting and twisting. The same applies to one-sided bodily work, a lot of shaking of the whole body, for example. operating certain machinery and means of transport. Poor physical form and inactivity also give rise to increased risks, hereditary dispositions can also be a contributing cause, and there is also uncertainty about smoking and significant overweight. Public health reports are now on treatment and the primary health report will be delivered tomorrow. We look forward to how healthcare can be organised so that we can both improve on prevention and through increased interdisciplinary use of our resources to provide the right treatment for the population as early as possible, as health care21 calls for. We expect chiropractors to become part of the primary health supply. In early intervention, chiropractors will prevent disease development and help patients not to drop out of work. They help to strengthen patients’ mastery by stimulating lifestyle change, increased activity and movement. There are now about 700 chiropractors in Norway, and the number is increasing. This provides an increasing availability of the service. Chiropractors represent a highly specialised competence in the whole of the muscle and skeletal sphere and can contribute to the community’s efforts at prevention. Muscle and skeletal health is one of the greatest public health challenges in the coming years. The Health and Welfare Committee was also clear in the examination of the State budget for the year on the need for more special competences in the field of musculoskeletal disorders. It's about prioritizing efforts and more knowledge in the field where we know that we have the major health challenges. It is unfortunately unclear to me how the interaction between the expert councils in such matters is. When we address the Minister of Health Education, it is referred to the Minister of Health and vice versa. That is why we have chosen to highlight the lack of chiropractor training and research on muscle and skeleton by addressing the interactions with both state councils here today. So the question for the Minister of Health is, how will he ensure increased competence and interaction between health professionals in the muscle and skeletal sphere?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1387	The representative Grung addresses an important theme in this interview. Musculoskeletal disorders include a wide range of conditions and are the most common cause of sick leave and disability. Several of us will experience pains in the muscles and skeleton during life. For some, the pain is transitory and does not need treatment, but for about 30 pst. of the adult population, the pain is long-term with impaired function over time, which may affect the quality of life. We're creating the patient's healthcare. What we can do for this large disease group, which is the ‘most pampering and most expensive’, is an important topic in this work. We need more knowledge, better interaction and more attention to improve supply. Our government has taken the entire healthcare service up to a wide range of debates, including: through several large-scale messages that see the development of healthcare in a context. The public health message presented by the government before Easter has three important pillars: mental health should be as important as physical health in public health work, the importance of active ageing for good health throughout life, and making healthy choices easier. Our proposals will affect how we will succeed in preventing and preventing deterioration of muscle and skeletal pests. In the autumn, the national health and hospital plan will enable us to plan a healthcare service with the capacity and competence to meet the needs of the future. In a few days' time, we will be submitting the Stortingen primary health report. Here, for the first time, primary health services are presented as a comprehensive service. We propose a number of innovative measures on how to set up services to meet patients’ needs and meet the objectives of the Cooperation Reform. Patients with complex needs must meet with complex competences, and we will facilitate this. I have listened to patients and users who say that interdisciplinaryism must be a guiding principle in the services. We want more of the work to be organised in multidisciplinary teams to provide better and more holistic treatment and follow-up, especially for patients who have to be followed up over a long period of time, for example. patients with impaired function due to muscle and skeletal disorders. Better follow-up requires good cooperation and provision of services in municipalities that are coordinated and tailored to the needs of individual users. There may be everything from advice to change lifestyles, help to training and rehabilitation or services to master the life of chronic diseases. It is important that the user has to have a place to visit with his questions. This person doesn't have to be a regular. It might as well be a physiotherapist or a nurse. There's a lot of possibilities here. The government will suggest that the resources of municipalities can be used more flexibly in prevention, for learning and mastering, habilitation and rehabilitation. The intention of the interaction reform on co-ordinated and holistic patient pathways, early intervention and prevention, and that people should be given more services where they live, will require better organisation in municipalities and more interaction with the specialist healthcare service. Team organisation around patient groups with major complex needs can be one such form of cooperation. Many users with musculoskeletal disorders will benefit from team-based solutions across service levels. Co-location of services is a first step towards better interaction and coordination of current sub-services. The government will therefore stimulate the co-location of such services. We have too little knowledge of municipal health and care services. Therefore, the Ministry of Health and Welfare is working to establish a municipal health and care register, abbreviated KHOR. The register will provide us with important data for research, quality development, health monitoring and preparedness in the primary health service. With this, we are following up one of the actions of the National Research and Innovation Strategy Health Care21. Technology is a carrier in the health and care service of the future. New online digital services allow users to make active choices about their own health and improve their ability to influence their own health services. In order to obtain good patient mobility, healthcare professionals need to be able to communicate digitally and exchange the necessary health information about the patient. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget adopted the proposal that the necessary health information can follow the patient throughout the patient’s course. Habilitation and rehabilitation have been identified for many years as one of the weakest areas of healthcare. Despite repeated cross-political ambitions to lift the area, little has happened. Our government will do something about that. That is why we have said that we want to present an escalation plan for habilitation and rehabilitation. This escalation plan shall be aimed primarily at the municipalities. Several groups of patients are affected by long-term pain and fatigue disorders where no clear medical explanation of the disorders can be identified. This challenges healthcare. That something is hard to understand, doesn't make it less serious. The government is busy giving these patients a better offer. The goal is clear: this is a group that needs and demands a better offer than we can offer today. We have made a number of priorities, we have invested financially, and we are implementing measures to improve the supply of patients with long-term pain and fatigue. In 2015, it is granted 20 million. to a pilot test in the specialist health service to improve the provision of research and a simpler meeting with the services to patients. A learning network with the relevant professional communities shall also be established to strengthen the dissemination of knowledge and to ensure equality of treatment provision on a national basis. The project shall be developed in cooperation with the community health services and patients. Regional health enterprises have established a national research collaboration on muscle and skeletal health, as one of six disciplines. Research cooperation is coordinated by Health South-East. There are six medical records of quality in muscle, bone and connective tissue. These registers provide good opportunities for patient-related research into the effectiveness and quality of treatment provision. The State budget for 2014 increased the funding for research in health enterprises by 100 million. kr. The funds were to go to service-related and practical clinical research and healthcare research in seven priority disciplines, including: musculoskeletal and pain and fatigue disorders. The grant continued in 2015. When the Stortinget dealt with the State budget for 2015, it was allocated another 10 million. for clinical research into mental and muscle and skeletal disorders. Following the release of the funds, muscle and skeletal health has been allocated to four out of 12 projects. Increased competence and interaction between muscle and skeletal health professionals are essential to meet the challenges in a good way. In Report. St. 13 for 2011-2012, Welfare Education, refers to the need for better consistency between the competences of newly trained health professionals and the need for competence in services. A new system of management of learning outcomes in education is being set up. The system shall contribute to the greater influence of users, authorities and services on the content of education. There's a lot of positive going on in the muscle and skeletal area. I have mentioned the organisation of interdisciplinary teams, pilot trials, research and collaboration with the Ministry of Knowledge on getting more influence on the content of education. This, together with the government’s commitment to a comprehensive health and care service and the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, will contribute to increased competence and interaction between health professionals in the muscle and skeletal areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1427	That was a very good description, but I'm afraid that's not enough. I still have the experience that we can't design a policy that goes across the different silos. Today, we invite the Minister of Knowledge, but we might as well invite the Minister of Labour and perhaps the Minister of Finance, because there is a great potential to harness the little knowledge we have, in order to get people back to work more quickly by focusing more on increasing the competence of the multidisciplinary. I've listened, and that's a lot of positive talk, but I'm not sure of the result. I registered that the minister was not in charge of the educational offer itself. In the long-term communication on research and education, the Labour Party pointed out that it is a little special that Norway is planning only for 60 pst. of the future need for doctors, and now it's like 0 pst. of the need we have for chiropractors. I would like to have an answer back, also on what I took up in the interplay with regard to the interaction between the knowledge that the Ministry of Health and Health has with regard to the need for competence, and the ordering function you have with, for example. Ministry of Knowledge. I would like to have better answers to that, as well as how we can play on the team, but also perhaps a consideration linked to the interaction between health and working life or sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1434	I would like to thank the representative Grung for seeing my description as good. I think it was particularly good because it was very concrete, with all the measures that I am implementing in this area. It is precisely what was the interpellant’s question and the interpellant’s interview that has been submitted, which is about concrete actions related to competence – I was involved in this area – research/development, not least the 110 million. kr, which is now available in this area, is earmarked and goes to specific projects in the field of muscle and skeletal disorders, and where we are now working on both the primary health care notification, which comes in a few days, and a national health and hospital plan. We get a completely different assessment of the competence needs of health and care services in Norway, make concrete plans for it, and cooperate closely with the Ministry of Knowledge about it. It will cover both the scope of education and the content of education — that the content and quality of education correspond to the needs of patients. When it comes to establishing a separate chiropractor education in Norway, there is a question that I think I first got involved with in the United Kingdom in 2002. It's a discussion that we've had over a very long time. What is, of course, the situation there is that this is the profession that has a central place in the Norwegian healthcare system, but at the same time does not have its own education in Norway. It is also not least an economic issue to put it in place and establish such education in Norway. There are several environments that are interested in establishing education, but my impression is that these environments want their own state funding for that establishment. That's why this is an economic question for this government, as it was for the previous government over eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1443	First of all, thank the representative, Mr Grung, who addresses this important issue in the debate. Too many patients with long-term pain and fatigue sufferer with unclear cause today experience the health care meeting as a struggle for diagnosis and treatment. They feel that they are not being properly cared for in the specialist health service and that they are being thrown into the system due to lack of competence in this area. When you do not know the cause of the plague, it is often difficult to find the right treatment. Thus, the patient is sent between different specialists, such as neurologists, revmatologists, specialists in physical medicine or psychologists and psychiatrists, without having a diagnosis and thus insufficient treatment. At the beginning of 2012, about 130,000 people were ill with ME/chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, neck pain, musculoskeletal disorders and unspecified back pain. There is an increase of 3000 between 2010 and 2011, where the highest percentage increase was in the youngest age groups. It's quite serious. We know that there are also other diagnostics like this. Lyme disease. This shows that the situation for many is unsustainable and very painful both physically and mentally. But it's also expensive for society when so many at their best age stay out of work because they're struggling and unable to participate. This group needs and demands better treatment than is currently available. As part of the government’s goal of creating patients’ healthcare, a number of clear priorities have already been implemented in the field of musculo-skeletal disease, as the Minister of Health well described in his response to the interpellant. We need to build more knowledge and competence. At the same time, the services of these patients need to be better organised. We need to have more and better knowledge of disease and treatment. This means that we need to focus more on research and that the competence of health care professionals needs to be strengthened. At the same time, work is needed to improve the meeting between patients and healthcare. The same applies to the interaction between health professionals groups. We also need a stronger user involvement and greater patient involvement. This work is already well under way. As the Minister of Health pointed out in his response, more research has been allocated in 2014 and 2015, with clear indications that long-term pain and fatigue disorders such as ME, Lyme disease, fibromyalgia, etc. The government has also strengthened the offer to these groups by 20 million. kr to be used for interdisciplinary outpatient clinics and diagnostic centres in the specialist health service. The centres will provide more opportunity to see the context and help these patients to receive a better follow-up. I am pleased that the government has been so clear that research into musculoskeletal disorders should be given priority, and that this is already shown in practical action. We also see that the national research effort on muscle and skeletal health is now working to link primary health services more closely with the research environment in hospitals, and between universities and hospitals. Better cooperation between primary health services and research communities will gradually provide a better boost. Questions are asked about the value of cognitive behavioural therapy or similar treatments. I believe that very many people can benefit from this kind of treatment. There are good examples of people with musculoskeletal disorders or fatigue syndrome who have been helped to get back to work and school through this form of treatment. A good example, which I want to share with the hall, is Formednes Trivselsgård at Tustna in Aure, which runs AFEM – Responsibility for Own Mestring. They can show very good research results and good cooperation with Health Mid-Norway. It targets long-term sick/unemployed target groups with chronic pain and stress disorders, burnout syndrome and psychosocial problems after serious illness — precisely the type of treatment requested by the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1466	First, of course, I would like to commend the representative Grung for addressing an important topic, which will have a significant impact on the development and design of our healthcare in the short and long term. I am pleased that the interpellant, in the light of the joint remark of the cooperation parties on musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders, promotes the interpellant, because the suffering affects many and deserves increased attention. Muscle and skeletal disorders are one of our major public health challenges, and there is nothing to suggest that the number of those plagues will drop in the future. The Cooperation Parties to the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left stood in the position of the Health and Care Committee on the 2015 State Budget together on a note on muscle and skeletal disorders, to which reference is made in the Interpellation. It notes that the majority believe that there is a need for more knowledge about these diseases and the suffering and increased skills in working interdisciplinaryly to reduce the suffering of those suffering from musculoskeletal disorders. The cooperation parties also showed in our note that there is a need for special expertise in musculoskeletal disorders, as these disorders affect so much of the population. Nor is it to avoid that these sufferings are very precious to our welfare society. Overall, these disorders cost the community approx. 70 B.C.E. kr per year. Better public health and better prevention can significantly reduce these costs and release funds for other purposes — and most importantly, of course, reducing suffering for many thousands of people. Several of us will experience different kinds of muscle and skeletal disorders during life. For many, this means a drastic decrease in quality of life and a reduced ability to work and to do daily tasks. The question is how to meet these challenges in the future. Our answer is that we need to prevent more and repair less. I am therefore pleased that the government is taking this issue seriously and during this year there are several large-scale notifications that see healthcare in the context. We've got a new public health report. It contained three major themes that have not been properly addressed in the past. Mental health should be as important as physical health in public health work – the importance of active ageing for good health throughout life and making healthy choices easier. Our proposals will affect how we will succeed in preventing and preventing deterioration of muscle and skeletal pests. Later this spring, we will receive a primary health notification, a medical notification, and beyond the year, we will also receive the long-awaited national health and health plan. All of this is important to improve healthcare for patients, users and relatives alike. The Minister for Health was in his intervention on several important projects that are now being carried out in this field. We can all be very satisfied with that. And it's important that we continue to develop our services in the future, because the patient's healthcare requires that we use all available and new knowledge, while developing further and even better knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1487	Thank you to the representative, Grung, who has an interview about a very central health issue. Muscle and skeletal disorders are unfortunately a major health problem in Norway, and backaches are very common in the population. This interpellation is about treatment and how to improve treatment with more knowledge, and ensuring education and multidisciplinary cooperation between health professionals involved in physical activity, back pain and other musculoskeletal disorders. I heard the answer from the Minister of Health and Care. It is clear that a lot of good work is being done. There's a lot of projects going on. But I'm like the interpellant a little concerned that what we're talking about here today, far from it, is enough to take the grip that's necessary to prevent muscle and skeletal disorders from becoming the big health challenge as it is today. Society spends too many resources on these sufferings. The interpellant argued that perhaps both the Minister of Labour, Knowledge, Health and Finance should have stood here and said what they would do together to raise this field both in the labour market, in the education sector and in the health and care sectors to get the good alternatives. We probably have knowledge of the health effect of physical activity. But maybe we don't know what to do to raise those that are hard to get more physically active, because here we have big social differences in the population. That's what's the big challenge. The interpellant is in the chiropractor training. It also comes in the next interpellation. It was a major event, or at least an extension decision, when we decided to create a separate chiropractor education in Norway. I have as a very clear principle that Norway has a responsibility to expand its own professionals, and when we don't have our own education for chiropractors, it's time. Here, there are no permissions on the government budget. Then we can come back to localization, but it's important that it's going to be further in this. As I understand it, this is now stopping up in the department. I also want to highlight the importance of multiple physiotherapists in the school community. We just heard about the public health report, and it was stressed that in the school health service we lack many years' work with physiotherapists. I thought the debate about this is often about treatment at a late stage. We have to get into the school and get to grips with the plagues early. Not least we need to prevent it, because it is only with prevention that we can solve the challenges when it comes to muscle and skeletal disorders. Public health messages address measures for more physical activity. I have to say, I'm very disappointed. It's rarely seen a government go back to such an important goal. There was a measure from Stortinget in the previous period of securing an hour of physical activity in the school every day. Now it is minimized to have a reinforcement, and it has come some trial projects. But we don't need any more trial projects. We need to bet on children and young people, so that we don't get as many people as need chiropractors or the like when they grow up. The effort to prevent physical activity is far too poor. I have to mention that, even if this interpellation is about treatment. If we are to have a policy for the future, we are forced to start with children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1502	First of all, thank you to the interpellant Ruth Grung for addressing a very important topic. As many people have been involved, there is a lot of money we're talking about, but most importantly, it causes a lot of suffering. Common to many of them is that they could get better help. That's what we're talking about here today. However, as other speakers have also pointed out, this has been a longer political debate in Norway. I think we have to be so honest to talk about the taboos that characterize this debate. One, I think, is connected to the chiropractor subject, which someone calls manipulation. I think we should look at Denmark and how those who talk about chiropractor training in a completely different and multidisciplinary way to understand what it is about professionally. The second is that we touch something that plagues women and children the most. There may still be a taboo in the debate – less and less fortunately – but it is also linked to the fact that there is clearly a disagreement in the political debate and in the bureaucratic environment. There has been a broad political consensus in the United Kingdom over a long period of time that we should put in place an effort both in relation to concrete actions in research and in order to establish, for example: a chiropractor training in Norway. But in the same period there has been an equal amount of bureaucratic reluctance to it. When we look at Odense in Denmark and what those who contribute to the education that leads to, among other things, becoming a chiropractor, it's about molecular biology, it's about genetics, about biochemistry, about anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, microbiology, immunobiology and pathology. In my conceptual world, it's at least very little about manipulation. This is about interdisciplinary, about understanding the body and, in fact, the mind that we lack a lot of scientific knowledge about today, and Norway should strengthen its efforts. When we know that mental ill health is causing us, as the Institute of Public Health is now saying, 184 billion. kr per year, and we have social security costs related to Nav between 70 and 80 billion. So I'm going to spend 8 billion dollars. kr for research in the specialist health service, it should be lacking that we could not find any of that money to acquire more knowledge and also more professional education related to these fields. I think we need to focus more effort – and structure it differently from today – on, in particular, public health and the municipal sector, and we need to do some running to get more research into it. That is what we are doing in the context of the public health report now, and as the case-rapporteur, I would like to outline some structural measures for it. It's not done in a hand turn, and I'm very pleased with the government parties' willingness to join in and put on for research. It is most important in the first place that we acquire more knowledge. The representative Tope was in the school as the arena for physical birth, prevention and physical activity. I think we're going to start talking more about the Health Centres and their place in the new municipalities and in the new people's greetings. They should be given a much larger space and a greater room for indiscriminateness, a clearer role for children and young people, and also in physical births. It requires that they engage and cooperate more with volunteering and with patient organisations, as well as with other actors such as drug users. chiropractors, physiotherapists, manual therapists, nutrition physiologists and logo horses, and this is where we have to do something about the silo-based funding today, which makes us work in each of our booths and to a far too little interdisciplinary. I hope that, as politicians, we continue to spend time and energy on these debates, and that we can also bring the bureaucracy with us out of what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1515	First, I would like to thank all those who have spoken and recognize that there is a broad political consensus on prioritising the muscle and skeletal domain. It is we who are in opposition, who are allowed to have the role of the most impatient – we are still going to be – but the most important thing is that there is broad political consensus. We understand that it is a challenge how we should bring this about in the primary health field. In this debate, we tend to talk more about specialists and the research communities associated with this, but we need to address the challenges that health care21 so clearly addresses to us, that we need to make a better balance between the status of primary health and specialist health, and not least through it also raising prevention. As many people have been involved, and especially the last speaker, it is a challenge to get health into school, including in health centres, not least the interdisciplinary, but perhaps where it is most difficult, is in the workplace. At least it was my experience when I worked with inclusive work, that it was very privatized in relation to the importance of work, but also to increase both the quality of life and the health of the individual. Then it is a little special that the occupational health service is focused only on the physical distress, while we increasingly see that there is still work that creates unhealth, and the jobs that have a large share of it are not obliged to have occupational health service. Then I want to see more Denmark and other Nordic countries that have come further than us in this regard, in order to gain experience from them. I'm a little insecure, but I think the last speaker is right, that there might be some prejudice against chiropractors, and that that might have been the reason why it takes time before we can establish such an education in Norway. But all the professional material we get shows that we need different specialists, but they need to be better at interacting if we're to give patients the best offer. And there's a nice balance between the two. Then we recognize that it is a budgetary question. It's a pretty big boost, but at the same time we know that the three biggest cities are looking at this possibility. I think those who have come the longest are Oslo University Hospitals, and that they also link the education of physicians to the education of future chiropractors. I also think that is a very happy sign, that they take it into account, because the relationship between the educational environment and competence is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1526	The question of chiropractor training is also a topic for the next interpellation, but I think it is worth stressing that it is not difficult to try to make different ideas about why this has been difficult to get in place. I think it's a simple answer to that – this is a priority issue, it costs a lot of money, and it's a budgetary question. Then I believe that it is wrong when the representative, Grung, claims that in my post and in this debate, the main focus was on the specialist health service. On the contrary, it was a main focus on what we're working on now, which we're about to join in the primary health service in this area, because musculoskeletal disorders are an area that will be especially important to solve interdisciplinaryally in the new health care in the municipality. Then, of course, it is also important to prevent muscle and skeletal disorders, not least through increased physical activity for children and young people. Children and young people need to become more physically active. Young boys today are no more physically active than their grandparents. It's a big health challenge. Of course, this must be done in the leisure time of the children. It does not help with more physical activity in school if parents drive the children to school or leave them sitting in front of the data all night. But we also have to do more in school. The representative Toppe claimed that the previous government had more ambitious objectives — it may well be — but it is at least so that this government came up with concrete measures. There is no government that has proposed such a concrete increase in time for physical activity in the youth as this government has done. I also think it is important to nuance the discussion of physical activity in school a little bit more than what has been done now. In childhood, it is fully possible to facilitate more physical activity in the ordinary day of school. We see a lot of good examples of that. The major challenge is how to get more physical activity at the youth level, where including it in normal education is more challenging. This is also why we focus our efforts on youth in this pilot project. It is also in the age group most young people fall away from organised sport, and the activity is falling quite sharply. When we have a research project, it's not about asking whether physical activity is good or not, but what it's a big challenge is to find out how we're going to facilitate physical activity at the youth level, so that it's the best way to do it. We don't have enough knowledge there, and that's what we're going to find out through this research project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1540	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1556	The momentum of this debate with the Minister of Knowledge has been the very best, namely a discussion of why chiropractic has an important role to play in the Norwegian health service. I feel that there is a broad consensus that a natural consequence of this is that a chiropractor training should be established. We've heard a lot of good reasons for that, and the previous Biggest decided it unanimously. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders are a major public health problem. The provision of this patient group is deficient and is characterised by a lack of knowledge. The consequence is a painful life for many people and unnecessarily high sick leave. Still life is believed to be a major cause, and everything therefore suggests that this type of health problem will increase in the future. The field is also characterised by low status, insufficient research and insufficient innovation. The aim of this interpellation is to give the government a small push and encourage action. The establishment of the training is not in place, despite decisions taken in the Stortinget. Like many other colleagues, I am now fully aware that there are very many good actions in education and research that are well worth spending money on. So why is building up your own chiropractor education also a question of research and education policy? Let's take a look at the strategic document in this field that was adopted earlier this year: the long-term plan for research and higher education. There we find six long-term priorities. Two of these are relevant in this context: public sector innovation and better and more efficient welfare, health and care services world-leading professional environments The Communication argues well that research and higher education are key instruments in the face of challenges in many health policy fields, including diseases and an ageing population, and we should have ambitions to become world leaders and develop environments of excellent quality. To quote the long-term plan: ‘The challenges must be met with knowledge of the conditions that affect health and disease, how best to provide services, what treatment works and how to apply new solutions in future health and care services. Research, education and innovation are key prerequisites for the development of high-quality safe health and care services.’.» In addition, it says: ‘We need excellent professional and research environments in prevention, treatment, care and service development, and there is a need for cooperation between services, professional environments, users and business to develop and implement the results of innovation.’ It's like I had to say it myself. The challenge is evident in this field when a profession which has had official authorisation for nearly 30 years and which conducts 2 million consultations each year cannot take up its education in Norway. So it's going to be crazy about the research and technical environment. Then you also need a professional meeting point, and it becomes extra demanding to take doctoral degrees. Nevertheless, four have discussed so far, and there are five–six doctoral degrees in progress, at the University of Oslo and the University of Stavanger. The Research Council has supported some, the Extra Foundation and the Kiropraktor Association's research fund others. The government and the Council of State Røe Isaksen have great ambitions for Norwegian research that it will be even more groundbreaking and world-leading. My claim is that very much facilitates Norway’s building a world-leading environment on just muscle and skeletal disorders – this because we are in a rather unique position in an international context. We have relatively good coverage of chiropractors, the service is available and widely used, and it represents a greater proportion of the health supply here than in other countries. The chiropractors have official authorization, they have right of referral and medical notice. In addition, Norway has a professions-neutral health and care law. That means that all the rights tools are in place. In addition, the profession itself is hungry for knowledge. They want the subject to be associated with heavy research environments at universities, and want more interaction with other professionals. And there they are welcome. Three universities have made good applications for offers. An application is from the University of Oslo and is in cooperation between the universities of Stavanger and Bergen. In other words, there is also competition to establish the study. In addition, the Norwegian model of education is a very good starting point: the students are both in the primary health service and the specialist service during education. Through education, they learn to interact. The 2010 expert group, established by the Ministry of Knowledge and the study of chiropractor training, presented a sketch of a top modern educational model that will bring muscle and skeletal diseases into the medical study. In addition, choosing such a model will strengthen traditional medical training. We've seen that from Denmark. In other words, here we have an area where we have all the possibilities to be world leaders. A great deal is being done in a new multidisciplinary research environment that educates chiropractors. Research director and professor of neurology John-Anker Zwart has formulated himself as follows on the website for research.no: ‘Relating to scale and cost, it is a paradox that muscle and bone are one of the least common diseases. It also receives little attention from politicians and in health plans. Research support is also incredibly low.’ The question is whether the Council of State sees the same thing. Does he see the potential that lies there, that through research and education you can make people feel better? Will he bet on an environment that has the potential to be world leader? One thing I am in any case certain of: if this is to become a reality, the Ministry of Knowledge and the government on the ground must be with fresh money. Such a new effort becomes too big a task for a single institution to build up on its own. I'm excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1612	My goal in health education is to respond to the needs of healthcare and users, i.e. to facilitate what the Minister of Health calls the patient’s health care. We're going to have education that contributes to quality and patient safety. That means that we're both going to have the right education and that the right education is going to have the right learning outcomes. Therefore, the government has used a lot of resources to follow-up the Education for Welfare paper. In particular, there has been work on the general measures, which benefit all health and social education. The University and Higher Education Council has been mandated to carry out several major follow-up tasks, including: national development work to strengthen quality and relevance in practical studies in health and social vocational training. This is a comprehensive project with 140 participants from both the education and service sectors. The work will end in December 2015. The aim of the practical project is to carry out national development work aimed at improving quality and ensuring the relevance of the external practical studies in health and social education so that they can meet the skills needs of the future. The University and Higher Education Council is also working to develop common content in health and social education, including cross-professional cooperation learning. It will be completed in 2015, and here too, education and services will cooperate closely. In addition, the Ministry of Knowledge cooperates with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion to develop a new system for managing the learning outcomes of health and social education and training, as well as a law-making and funding of practical studies in municipalities. Then the representative Marianne Aasen is quite right that there is no chiropractor training in Norway today. There is an opportunity to take the first year at Bjørknes Private School, then to take the rest of chiropractor education abroad. Most take the five - year master’s education in Denmark, the United States, the United Kingdom or Australia. In the Education for Welfare Communication, the previous government expressed its intention to follow up the Storting decision with a view to establishing a chiropractor training, a decision that I knew for the first time saw the day’s light in 2004 — it was at least a request from 2004. That follow-up was not done by the previous government. The size has raised the need for chiropractor training on several occasions. On this basis, the Ministry of Knowledge has carried out an expert study. The expert panel has evaluated research in the field of three educational institutions and points out that one of the key prerequisites is that chiropractor training takes place in a multi-disciplinary and multidisciplinaryly complex research and learning environment in medicine and health – to ensure both professional concentration and knowledge. The establishment of chiropractor training involves the construction of a new professional and research environment in Norway and is therefore very demanding, both competent and cost-effective. It is true that the representative says that the University of Oslo has worked in several ways to develop chiropractor education. The university's assessments are that it is necessary to recruit expertise from abroad, as there is no professional competence in Norway today. Furthermore, there is also a need to provide suitable premises and special equipment. Although there is no chiropractor training in Norway today, there is a good deal of research in the field of muscle and skeletal health. The Ministry of Health and Health finances such research both through the Norwegian Research Council and through the regional health enterprises. In order to strengthen research in the field of musculoskeletal and skeletal health, regional health businesses have also established a national research collaboration on muscle and skeletal health, as one of six disciplines. Cooperation is coordinated by Health South-East. In addition, six quality medical records have been established within muscle, skeletal and connective tissue, including: National register of joint prostheses, National quality register of back surgery, Norwegian neck and back registers and Norwegian quality register of arthritis. It offers good opportunities for patient-related research on both the effectiveness and quality of treatment provision, where there is a short way between new knowledge and a change in practice. For the past three years, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has provided funds from the State budget for infrastructure for research into chiropractors and their treatments. This has led several chiropractors to do doctoral projects, and recently the first chiropractor in Norway had a PhD degree. Neither the previous government nor the current government has yet given priority to the training of chiropractors in the annual budget proposals. This government has primarily worked on the general measures in Education for Welfare, which relate to the whole range of health education. Measures to enhance professional competence have also been launched to improve the basis for any chiropractor training. With regard to the representative's specific questions about progress in setting up education, there is something I have to get back to the Stortinget in connection with the annual budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1642	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for a good deal of additional information. Those who follow both this debate and the previous one have certainly learned something new, even though there is a lot about back, muscle and skeletal disorders in Norway. Not least I think many people have heard a little about how many records we have about these disorders, which we have now heard from two government councils. I am also pleased that both Minister of Health Bent Höie and Councillor Røe Isaksen are so honest to say that this is also about money, because it is clear that setting up a whole new education, a completely new study and building up heavy research environments in this way costs money. But a little bit of the purpose of travelling this interpellation has also been to get focus on it and have a discussion in the Storting about this with all the parties, just to get that perspective up there is a big problem. We have environments that are willing to go in and solve this. Nordics use chiropractors all the time and to a large extent, and then we need to put research and education in Norway. We spend a lot of money on health in Norway, we spend a lot of money on health research, and we spend a lot of money on research, and then I think it's high time that we manage to see this in context, and that we manage to raise these kinds of priorities when we're going to deal with the government budget further. I'm excited about the debate and to hear what other parties think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1653	Yes, this is no new matter – we can say that carefully. The Minister of Health said that he had started working on this in 2002. In 2004, there was a request decision from the Stortinget, where the government was asked to facilitate the establishment of a chiropractor study in Norway. The size has also later recalled the 2004 decision. I believe that part of the research investments made by the government can help prepare the basis for a chiropractor's study. I believe that also the 2010 round, with an expert committee, where detailed professional assessments were obtained, will answer many of the questions. In other words, you're left with the fact that we have to be so honest to say that it's a priority question. This means that the type of priority issues that deal with relatively large sums is a priority every year, in the annual budgets. I believe, however, that this is a very good opportunity – when we have a debate on this – to discuss muscle and skeletal disorders from both a health perspective and from a knowledge and research perspective. I'd like to do more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1664	The Minister of Knowledge explains well the situation in chiropractor training and what has been followed up on this matter in the last ten years. In these years, the right and bourgeois parties have had a political focus on the matter in their work on the Stortinget. Since professional expertise and the professional community are a central element in this matter, I would like to highlight, in this context, government appropriations in recent years for infrastructure for research for chiropractors and for the treatment they carry out. It is a pleasure to see that this has led to more chiropractors now running doctoral projects, and that the first chiropractor, as the Minister of Knowledge said, recently disputed in Norway for his PhD degree. This shows that targeted efforts have provided the necessary and further development of professional competence in the field of education, as an important basis for establishing a Norwegian training offer. Further work by the Minister of Knowledge on the general measures of the Education for Welfare Education Communication means that, in total, there is an increasing positive basis for a necessary professional environment associated with this education. At the same time, it is reassuring that the government has strengthened research funding, which ensures a better framework for research activity, and that a good deal of research is being carried out in the field of muscle and skeletal health. National research cooperation on musculoskeletal and skeletal health, as well as the six medical quality records in muscle, bone and connective tissue provide good opportunities for patient-related research, where the path between new knowledge and change of practice is short. When such research has received focus from government, the Norwegian Research Councils and regional health firms, there is reason for optimism for our common increased knowledge base and possible policy positive decisions related to this type of treatment. I will therefore end by supporting the thoughts of the Council of State in this matter and look forward to further follow-up of the matter from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1677	This is an area that has been debated for a long time. The budget for 2005, on a proposal from the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the representative of Simonsen, decided that the government should facilitate the establishment of a chiropractor's study in Norway. At the end of 2012, a unanimous Committee on Church, Education and Research supported the early establishment of chiropractor training. It is also worth noting that in the Education for Welfare paper it expressed to the previous government that it would follow up the Storting decision with a view to establishing a chiropractor training. However, it was not followed up. In 2012, 350,000 Northmen used chiropractor services. It shows that there is a need for service. Despite this, neither the previous government nor the current government has given priority to the training of chiropractors in the annual budget proposals. On the part of the current government, the general measures in Education for Welfare, which relate to the whole range of health education, are primarily addressed. As the Council of State stated, there are many reasons why measures have not yet been taken in the field of chiropractor training. The establishment of a new education is complicated, and the establishment of a chiropractor training involves the construction of a new professional and research environment in Norway, which is very demanding, both competent and cost-effective. Today it is only possible to take the first year of chiropractor training at Bjørknes Private School, the rest of the education must be taken abroad. However, although full chiropractor training is not available in Norway, much national research cooperation is taking place in the field of muscle and skeletal health. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has also provided funds for research into chiropractors and their treatments. This has led several chiropractors to do doctoral projects, and recently the first chiropractor in Norway had a PhD degree. There are six medical records of quality in the areas of muscle, skeletal, connective tissue and joint prostheses, which have been examined by several experts. This provides good opportunities for patient-based research into both the effectiveness and quality of treatment provision, giving new knowledge and making it rapidly available. This research cooperation is an important effort to ensure the multidisciplinary nature of musculoskeletal and skeletal health. Health policy is important for the Progress Party. We also see this in the government's efforts, which are making a number of good efforts. The importance of health policy is clearly illustrated by the amount of money spent on health in the state budget. The government's draft budget for the health and care sector for 2015 was approximately 174.2 billion. kr. The need for comprehensive and costly health interventions is high and the Progress Party welcomes the fact that government has given priority to areas such as increased patient treatment and free choice of treatment, increased capacity and quality of care services, mental health and drug abuse, health and school health services and electronic interaction. There are also major needs in the education sector. Among other things, the school health service, which is also an important field, needs a further boost. This requires resources, both economic and human. In addition, the teacher level shall continue, further efforts shall be made on the real subjects, a professional level has been set up, and the research sector shall be strengthened. It is important to take into account that all of this is resource-intensive, competently demanding and costly, and that it therefore needs to be looked at in budgetary terms. The progress party thus adheres to the Council of State's words on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1700	Thank you to the interpellant and the Labour Party for putting this matter very carefully on the agenda today with two interviews. I also had the floor in the previous debate. The consequences of inactivity and the extent of health problems with muscle and skeletal disorders were addressed, and the need for proper education. This interpellation is about the training of chiropractors in particular. I was involved in the treatment of Education for Welfare. It was found that the chiropractors were now to receive a national education here in Norway, making a suggestion. It's an important suggestion. I wasn't really quite aware of it myself, but it's a little special that the chiropractors today are the only publicly approved health profession that doesn't have a national education supply. When a national education service does not provide a national education service, it does not become a part of the research culture in this field. It is especially because the chiropractors have been given additional responsibility as a health professional. One has permission to report patients, to refer to physiotherapist, to hospital treatment or to a specialist. Nevertheless, the state does not take responsibility for expanding this key healthcare staff who have an extended responsibility in patient treatment and for showing patients a shell. So one has an extended responsibility. One can always say, and of course it is right that this is a budgetary question. The red-green government did not include money in the last state budget after Education for Welfare. But as I read this case, there was a dispensation from the department and the directorate's side up against Oslo University Hospital and the Faculty of Medicine, and a report was handed over in 2013. I don't know enough about that report, whether there may be disagreements about what kind of model to put on, whether there are professional disagreements about the model, or whether there's something that can go for national, and that the professional environment and department and all these things are some that it's the model that's right. Otherwise, you might think that you need to spend more time on it. But if it's the way the Council of State thinks the report is a good model for this education, it's a budgetary question, and it's up to the government that's now on watch, to make sure that this gets progress. So it's the department that decides localization, but there's always a political desire in this as well. The University of Oslo has been a driver for this for many years, but now several educational environments have also thrown themselves on the ball and launched that there are several people who want this education – and that is a luxury problem, and good for education. What is quite clear is that this education has to be added to an environment that has medical education, because one has to create a multidisciplinary environment, and then it's natural that the first years are common. There's something important. Otherwise one should never take for granted that the new education will be added to Oslo, I must be allowed to say as a centre party, without having entered into it now. Supporting me here today is that we have to get this education up, and that one is thinking about where it's going to be placed in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1715	The next speaker is the representative Kjersti Toppe, then the interpellant, Marianne Aasen. - I'm sorry! The President, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1718	It is certainly unnecessary to state that Kjersti Toppe was the previous speaker! It's about chiropractor training, but there's been a debate about costs. The challenge is that it probably costs a lot more not to establish education – and that is what we are discussing. I have to take from what's positive, that here there's a great willingness to put in an effort. I think we're about to talk about how chiropractor education in Norway is going to be and when it comes. When are the first chiropractors educated in Norway? To the Council of State Røe Isaksen there is a call to turn around the practical possibilities of facilitating the races. In Denmark, some follow the course of medical training during the first few years. Similarly, in Norway it is fully possible to facilitate the increase in the quota of medical training at one or other of the three universities and to allow them to follow a three-year course until a Bachelor's degree. In Denmark, it is called clinical biomechanics, and it is a concept that we should start talking about in Norway as well. It's both professionally and academicly directed, so here it's possible to go more runs to different levels. Another tip to the council is to look at the education of doctors, as they do in Australia. There are Bachelor's admission requirements for the medical study, and it is then completely independent of the type of Bachelor's degree you have. There is a three-year education at the bottom, then there is a three- to four-year education until the doctor, and then two to three years in practical specialisation, with 16 institutions, or academies, as it is called there, for the specialised practice of education. It's an interesting model. I understand that we in Norway are discussing who is to be authorised, because there are clearly many educational courses for both nurses and doctors in Australia up to that kind of specialisation. We also hear that Bjørknes can offer a first year in Norway, so here it's just to see the opportunities that lie there, and how we can lead the first ones forward. In any case, the challenge is that we need to have a research-based competence to guide them into the right courses of education, and it has to be linked to medical training. We can also go a little further and think that we should facilitate a health care service in Norway that has three doors in a little more clearly than today. Where the doctor has a very solid position in the Norwegian health care system today, we are about to open the door for the psychologists to get a door in, and we can also imagine that the muscle and skeletal doctors get a clearer door in. If they're called manual therapists, chiropractors or muscle and skeletal doctors, they'll have future visions. Fortunately, we have now opened up a slightly more dynamic debate on how to develop the Norwegian healthcare system, and the educational pathways ahead of it we need to develop in parallel. It has been very static in Norway for many years now. The international debate on bachelor's education and scientific education opened some doors in Norway, but I think we need to revitalise that debate in view of educational courses in Norway, where costs will not be the big problem. These are the challenges we have to discuss, and when the challenges are so big both in suffering and in lost years of life and actually make up so crazy many billions in social security payments, we need to discuss how to use those funds in a slightly different way. And here we're just talking about the pro-miles of payments annually to finance this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1741	Thank you very much for your commitment to this debate. I am pleased with all the positive signals from everyone, really, that chiropractor training is important and appropriate in Norway. I would particularly like to include what was said by Ketil Kjenseth, about this with our education in the field of health, and that both recording and how they develop, even more surely can be seen in connection with a cooperation between Education Norway and Health Norway. Then I think it is an independent point that my colleague Ruth Grung and I have had a debate in which we are actually two committees participating together. It's not that often we get to it on Stortinget. That seems to me to be an additional dimension, which I would like to thank them on the Health and Care Committee for their contribution. So I think Kjersti Toppe had a lot of good points when it came to this that the chiropractors are in a special situation. I don't think there are any other professional groups where there are so many who are out in work that are approved by public authorities, who have that foothold and that place, which is quite legitimate and entirely in line with a unanimous collapse for many years, in the working and health sector, and then you don't have your own education for them. There's something we just have to fix. Then my challenge and call again to the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, that he now has the opportunity of putting solid footprints and simply getting this money. We have a government now that says they're playing massively on research. Then I guess there'll be more money for research next year's budget – it won't be cut. At least there is an opportunity to set up study places and to give more money to this field. Rune Schlagstad has written a book, which is for a work to be counted, called ‘National strategists’. It's about those who in the post-war period had the opportunity to set long-term goals and build Norway strategically. We who live today have come to a Norway that is built in many ways but that needs to be maintained. But in this particular field, a builder is actually needed. Then I encourage the Council of State to take that challenge and choose to become the builder of exactly this that has to do with chiropractor training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1754	I would like to say a thousand thanks to the Aasen representative for raising the gap, and I would also like to say that in general I believe that it is a great advantage to get to the kind of debates in which more committees are involved. One of the misses I believe many in Stortinget have, is that one would often wish one had time and capacity to engage in debates outside just one's own committee. It is then particularly good when it comes to it — especially in this area, for it is obvious that this is both health policy and knowledge policy. To conclude, I also notice that the Stortinget stands by what you have previously thought – at least it looks like this – and that it is initially a great surprise that you want such training in Norway. I would also like to repeat that we are working on following up the message Education for Welfare. I also think it is good that more people have brought with them and pointed out that there have been increased funds for, among other things. research on musculoskeletal disorders. Then, as I have said several times before, there is once again a budgetary question when we are going to get this done, and then it has to be assessed for other good purposes. I have also read the National Streets of Rune Slagstad. Of course, it is a terrifyingly tempting offer from Marianne Aasen to be allowed to become a national strategist – so there was at least no bad appeal the representative concluded with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1763	Case No. So 12 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1777	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1784	The Committee points out in its recommendation that the Government of the Proposition submits proposals to amend the conditions for the examination of the basic education in upper secondary education. The proposals have a background to the decision of the State budget for 2015 to modify the conditions for the examination of the basic education in higher education. The implementation of the Decision is subject to a modification of the need-to-be test provision in the Education Aid Act, since the current provision does not allow for emphasis to be placed on the economy of the needs test cohabiters. Expenditure on living costs in secondary education is a dependant responsibility, but at the same time the Committee would stress the importance of all having the opportunity and the right to take secondary education in Norway, irrespective of the parent’s economy. That is the background to the need-tested grant scheme, intended for pupils from families with weak economies. The Committee points out that this scheme has shown little success and that the grant must be targeted better than it is today, so that the aid schemes are not abused, but go to those for whom they are actually intended and intended. The Committee points out that the government’s justification for giving the economy to the new spouses or cohabitants in the need test is that dependants who have spouses or cohabitants have an economic advantage in having someone to share the household with. The Committee notes that the consultation note refers to the fact that the legislation on children’s contributions and contributions advances also take into account similar considerations. In the proposition, the government is involved in order to be able to focus on the economy of the cohabitants of dependants when testing the need for training support for pupils and apprentices in secondary education. Furthermore, the government proposes to terminate today's access to direct testing of needs against the economy of the spouse of dependants, i.e. stepparents. The proposal emphasises that, in order for the economy of a cohabiter to have a bearing on the need to test training support, the relationship between cohabiters must be of a lasting nature. The Committee has noted that a majority of the hearing bodies also support the Government's proposals. The Committee stresses that facilitating the collection of information directly from different registers is an important tool for modernising the Loan Fund and a prerequisite for providing customers with good digital services. The loan box has come well on the way in terms of data capture. They aim to provide evidence to the applicant or borrower as far as possible and to increase efficiency through automated processing and the use of digital services. The bill clarifies the relevant student, student, apprentice and apprentice educational support groups. Changes proposed in the proposal shall facilitate the same procedure for apprentices as for pupils and students. The Committee points out that a prerequisite for the effective treatment and control of applications for training aid is that the Loan Fund is provided with information from the educational establishments about the student or student's admission there and has actually begun training. Without admission and start-up, the student or student is not entitled to training support and without a contract of apprenticeship or a contract of training, the apprentice or the trainee is not entitled to training support. Surplus information shall be deleted in accordance with the rules laid down in the Data Protection Act. The Committee considers that the proposal of the government is good and will contribute to the more efficient management of the training aid scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1803	I would like to say a thousand thanks to the committee for a good deal of consideration. It's also good to see that there's a large majority behind this. This is a big change. It will affect many. I would also like to stress the importance of being able to provide good information and that we provide good service to those who are applying for training support. When I think the conversion is important and correct, it is because it is a good principle that our aid schemes that are tested should reach those who need it the most. The current Education Aid Act was adopted by a broad majority in 2005 and few legislative changes have been made since then. The law sets out the purpose of the training aid scheme, establishes the right to training aid for all those who fulfil specific conditions and provides a basis for the design of the aid schemes. However, the substantive content of the schemes, such as conditions for aid, aid rates and detailed rules for the measurement of aid, are dealt with in the annual budgets and laid down in the regulation. In education assisted areas, therefore, it is rarely the case that the law is the subject of major discussion. It is essentially in the context of the budgetary procedure that we have a political debate on the arrangements for granting aid and the level of aid. In the 2015 government budget, the government presented proposals for a major conversion of the primary education scheme into higher education, with a view to better targeting the grant against those for whom the aid is actually intended, i.e. pupils from families with particularly weak finances. Among other things, changes were proposed to the requirements test conditions for the grant. The size adopted these amendments during the budgetary procedure, and it is this decision that is the direct reason why we have put forward the legislative proposal under consideration today. That's the conversion that's the big conversion. The new basic grant scheme provides that the grant is to be tested against the income of both parents with formal responsibility for the student, regardless of whether the student is living with both or only one of them. Furthermore, in cases where the parents do not live together and where one or both of the parents have a new spouse or cohabitation, a fixed appropriation shall be made to the income against which it is required to be tested. The allowance shall express the economic advantage such dependants would have of another adult to share the household with. Since the Education Aid Act, as it is now formulated, does not open up the possibility of involving a caregiver’s partner in the need-to-use testing of aid, it is necessary to amend the law at this point. With the legislative proposal submitted, the spouse of a dependant shall be treated in the same way as the spouse of a dependant in the context of the needs test. The economy of both the cohabiter and the spouse may, on the basis of the proposal, only be given a limited importance in the test of needs compared to the importance that the economy of the dependants can give. As soon as the law's need-testing provision has been amended, in line with what the State budget has previously adopted, I will ensure that the regulation on the granting of aid is amended accordingly, so that the loan fund can open up to receive applications from the students for the coming school year. The proposal also contains a legislative amendment that will allow the Loan Fund to obtain certain information from the County Council on all apprentices and apprentices, including those who have not applied for support in the Loan Fund. This concerns information on the status of apprentice or apprentice, information on approved apprenticeship or training contracts and information on professional progress. The aim of the proposal was to facilitate an equally effective application process for this group that is currently available for students and students. It was stated in the proposal that the Ministry would further specify the content of the legal provision in the regulation, so that it was clear which information the loan fund could obtain from the county council. In the context of the precise regulation, there has been recent doubts as to whether the requirements of the Loan Fund for information in this respect could be met in the framework of existing legislative proposals. I therefore think it is right to inform Stortinget that it is uncertain whether the proposed law building will be used. The specific need for the legal asylum must now be assessed in more detail, and I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way to inform the Storing about the outcome of this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1822	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1836	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1843	This matter concerns a proposal to set up a professorship at the University of Tromsø, the Arctic University of Norway, to strengthen research and dissemination on World War II in northern Norway and the North. The German occupation of Norway during World War II is one of the most serious, central and significant events in recent Norwegian history. There are still many in our society who experienced the war, and who have clear memories of the years of German occupation. But it becomes, as the years go by, fewer and fewer of them. For most of my generation, it's like grandparents who can tell from the war, and for my children, it's great-grandparents. But even if time passes, it is important that knowledge about the war is passed on, and that what happened in the war years is further researched. It is important that we have knowledge of how Norway was involved in and affected by the war, and it is not least important that we have knowledge of the underlying factors, both political and ideological, that could lead to the outbreak of such a war in Europe. A lot of research has been done in the war, and a lot has been written about the war, but there is still a need for new research that can increase knowledge about the years 1940-1945 and what was going on in Norway at that time. The whole story is not yet told, and the whole picture is not yet presented. North Norway has its own very special history from the war. Many events particularly affected North Norway, and the Committee shares the opinion of the proposers that the war, from a northern Norwegian perspective, is a complementary story to the national story of the war. In some areas, the history of World War II in the north has been well described, while in other areas further research is needed. Therefore, it is positive that the University of Tromsø has developed professional environments in history and in World War II. In its opinion to the Committee, the Minister of Knowledge points out that state universities and higher education institutions receive framework funding from the State budget and that the Ministry does not award post homes for the establishment of professorates. The Council of State also points out that the University of Tromsø is to develop its own strategy and priority disciplines, and that under the Law of the University and the Law of the University of Tromsø no instruction on the content of teaching or the content of research can be made. However, in the context of the 70 years since the release of Norway in 2015, the Stortinget has decided to set up a professorship responsible for sustaining and further developing our knowledge of this peculiar and central part of the nation’s history. I'm glad. The majority of the Committee considers that this professorship should contribute to the research and production of the war as it took place both in North Norway and in other parts of the country, irrespective of the institution by which the professorship will be established. The important thing is not that this professorship be added to the University of Tromsø. The Christian People’s Party believes that quality assessments should lead to which institution receives the funds to set up this professorate and is satisfied that a dialogue has been started with the Norwegian Research Council on possible procedures for determining the award. But with the University of Tromsø's commitment to building expertise in history and in the field of World War II, it may well be that this very institution will still be the most suitable one to get this professorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1864	The history of World War II has been thoroughly described; it has been analyzed, it has been discussed. The German occupation in Norway, the acts of war, has gained its place in science literature, documentaries, drama, film, music and research. Nevertheless, you can ask questions about whether all aspects of World War II are well-lit and well-explored. The 70th anniversary of the dramatic events in Finnmark and Nord-Troms during World War II was expressed in many different ways last autumn. It was then stressed by several teams that we do not know enough about the war in the north, neither as regards the battle of Narvik, the war wound in general, nor the drama that spread when half the country was evacuated, burned and then released in the autumn of 1944. This is a story that for generations of students in Norway in general and in Northern Norway in particular has been under-communicated. It has been possible to grow up in North Norway without knowing the great, decisive historical events that happened there, in particular. Last fall, the NRK managed in one night – when they marked and sent a program on the evacuation of North Norway – to contribute to more public information than the school has actually done in many years. I think there is a consensus that we need a more thorough presentation of the five war wounds, especially in the northern regions. The Storting held an interpellation debate on this issue at the beginning of January. During the debate, Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide acknowledged that we have a lack of knowledge of the actions of the war in the north. The Secretary of Defense added that we must pay particular attention to the fact that there may be a group of people who have not seen or heard when the history of war wounds has been told. Following this debate, the representatives of the Workers' Party and the SV of the Magistrates of the three Nordic states joined forces to promote today's proposal to set up a professorship on World War II at Norway's Arctic University, precisely to address the lack of war stories, which were made clear during the autumn marking. It is important to research more, but the reason why the location here is important is that this is also about making visible. In the Ministry of Defence's budget for 2015, there was already a proposal to set up a professorate on World War II, based on a gift that had been received and intended for that purpose. A statement was included in the Committee's comment that the Professorate should be added to Oslo in the Committee's proceedings on the defence budget last autumn. The Minister of Knowledge clearly believes that this comment means that he can categorically reject today’s representative proposals – he is even out in the newspaper Nordlys and calls the proposal ‘freak’. But the proposal to set up a professorate of World War II at the Arctic University of Norway is not, in fact, linked to the gift professorate. It has been formulated as an independent initiative, and in the course of the last autumn committee proceedings the proposal was amended and made more general, just to meet the government parties. It is therefore disappointing that the parties to the government and their supporters cannot participate in this proposal. We also disagree that it doesn't matter, or that it doesn't matter, where the research on World War II takes place, especially when you want to highlight the events in North Norway – whether it's added to the continent or outside the country. All the experience so far suggests that it's not the way to go out there, if we really want to light up what happened in the north. The great and national story of World War II has so far been concentrated on the capital and the eastern region and has not reflected the great breadth and the really serious and dramatic events, such as: Extensive in North Norway. That is why we now believe that the Minister of Knowledge in the dialogue he has told him to have with the Research Council should emphasise the importance of having good research resources close to the geographical, social and economic landscape where important events took place. There is a need for increased knowledge of the Northern War experience, which can complement the great national story of World War II, and that possibility should be seized by the Stortinget and the Minister of Knowledge in the anniversary year 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1879	The President assumes that the representative will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1882	I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1887	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1890	World War II has left deep traces throughout Norway. When we celebrate this year that it is 70 years since the liberation, it should remind us that knowledge and communication about the war are still as important as it was right after the war was over. Knowledge and research into what the second world war has meant throughout our long-range country is incredibly important. I note that the proposers believe that the knowledge dissemination has so far not given sufficient emphasis to the efforts in North Norway. We're going to take that seriously. Therefore, it is good that the Stortinget has allocated funds for more research and development in this area. But the draft representative raises two issues. One is research into war efforts in North Norway and whether or not this has received enough attention. The other one, which is addressed more indirectly, is how we're going to award professorships to universities and colleges. No matter how much agreement can be reached with the proposers in their intention to contribute to the stronger dissemination of the war effort in North Norway, the proposal challenges the principles we have for how we award professorships. Universities and higher education institutions receive framework appropriations for the State budget. The Ministry of Knowledge does not grant post offices for the creation of professorates. The Minister of Knowledge is clear in his reply to the Committee that he does not want to return to a system where the Stortinge grants funds for the creation of individual professorships, and I support him in that. The government proposed in the 2015 state budget, and, as I said, the Stortinget has allocated funds to the creation of a professorate of World War II. In light of the fact that this year we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the liberation, this is something I fully support. The Council of State has pointed out in its letter that it considers that quality criteria must be the basis for assessments of the institution to which this professorship is to be awarded. This is now being done by the department, in close dialogue with the Research Council. In the comitology of the proposal for a representative, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have made proposals to ask the government to give priority to a reinforced effort for research and dissemination on the Second World War in the North and to assess whether a professorate can be part of such a commitment. The wording of this moderated proposal may give the impression that the authors of the proposal have raised objections to their original proposal, as expressed in the Council's letter of reply. And then I would like to stress that the professorship that funds have been allocated to establish will contribute to the knowledge and dissemination of World War II in Norway in its full breadth and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1911	The German occupation of Norway during World War II is a very central and significant event in recent Norwegian history, and there is still a need for research that can provide increased knowledge of the war years 1940–1945. Many important events during World War II affected North Norway in particular. The Progress Party shares the opinion of the proposers, that the war from a northern Norwegian perspective is a story that completes the national story of the war. In some areas, the history of World War II in the north has been well described and highlighted, while in others further research is needed. It is therefore positive that UiT is aiming to develop professional environments within history and World War II, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur. The Progress Party will demonstrate that the Minister of Knowledge, in his letter of 3 March 2015, points out that state universities and higher education institutions receive framework funding from the State budget and that the Ministry does not award post homes for the establishment of professorates. We think that's very good points. The detailed management of educational institutions by political groups creates unpredictability and is also an intervention in academic freedom, where the autonomy of the institutions is an important factor. The Progress Party will further point out that the Council of State also points out that the University of Tromsø – Norway’s Arctic University itself is to develop strategies and priority disciplines, and that under the Law of the University and the Law of the University of Stockholm no instruction can be given on the content of teaching or the content of research. The Progress Party is very concerned with the importance of knowledge about World War II and what serious consequences extreme ideologies can have in practice. It is now 70 years since Norway was liberated from the occupation of the Nazis. The Progress Party is very pleased that the Storting has decided in connection with this anniversary to set up a professorate responsible for sustaining and further developing our knowledge of this peculiar and central part of the nation's history. This professorship shall contribute to the research and production of the war as it occurred both in North Norway and in other parts of the country, irrespective of the institution by which the professorship is established. The Progress Party shares the knowledge minister’s wish that the quality assessment should lead to the institution receiving the funds to set up this professorship. We are pleased that a dialogue has been started with the Research Council on possible procedures for determining the distribution. Knowledge of World War II and experience in the north is a central part of recent Norwegian history. In view of the fact that we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the release of Norway in 2015, this issue is important. We refer to the Council's letter of reply to the Committee, where he writes the following: ‘The Government is concerned that the professorship will contribute to the dissemination of the breadth of Norwegian war experience, including on the war in the north. Several institutions may be beneficiaries of the funds concerned. I want quality assessments to be crucial, and the Ministry therefore has dialogue with the Research Council on possible procedures for finding out how the funds should be allocated on a quality-based basis.’» The Party of Progress supports the Council of State's position that quality assessments must be given crucial importance in the assessment of which institution is to be awarded this professorate. We will therefore await the outcome of the Ministry's assessments in consultation with the Norwegian Research Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1935	Learning from history is absolutely necessary to prevent repeating it. Learning from his close history is also about getting acquainted with himself, his community and his country. Therefore, I am infinitely happy that a professorship is to be set up to reveal unknown sites or less illuminated areas from World War II. Nevertheless, I find it strange that the majority of the committee cannot support the proposal for a specifically strengthened dissemination and research in World War II in North Norway. Because that is what is the essence of the proposal. It's about closing a hole in the national story. It's about knowing our own close story, our own national story. The war wasn't the same in our country. Evacuation and burning are national traumas. The German presence had a different extent and another expression in the north, and the resistance was evident despite the fact that the distinctions have been more widely assigned to resistance heroes in the south. They've probably earned it, and it's not so strange that there's been a border between north and south when medals were to be given, because a story that's not told is also more difficult to honor and lift up. In my childhood and childhood and schooling, we were so lucky to be visited by those who remembered the war, and who could tell and stand in the experiences that they themselves had had. Future generations obviously don't have the same opportunity that we had. What, then, are teachers going to offer young people? Many local historians and history teams have made an invaluable effort to document and gather war history, but still lack a comprehensive review to document and make available the history of the North Norwegian war for future generations. It's natural that a story from the north is also told from the north. Nevertheless, we understand that the Stortinget should not adopt the professorship and location in detail, but that is not the essence of the proposal either. It is about maintaining a balance and sending a clear signal that there is a need for research and dissemination of the Norse story specifically. There were political reasons why large parts of the Northern Norse resistance struggle and events in the north were not raised in the post-war nation building. I believe that we should take responsibility for that today. We have a historic opportunity to document our own close history. We don't have to let it leave us, because it can be too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1946	Today, when we say goodbye to prisoner 79 231, Samuel Steinmann, we are also reminded of how incredibly short it has been since World War II both started and ended. When I was little, I thought it seemed like an infinity ago. Today I understand that it is a moment in human history. World War II hit the whole country, but the history of war in Finnmark and Nord-Troms is peculiar to brutal events, forced evacuation and burning. When the representative Bergstø says that there were political reasons why perhaps more attention has been paid to war history in other parts of the country than in the north, it may also have been so. The fact that many of the partisans who fight against Nazism belonged to the extreme left has also been an important discussion in the context of the new statue that comes in Oslo, that they also honor those who fought against Nazism but who had communist sympathies. Then you can discuss for a long time what they did afterwards, but it doesn't take away any of the credit for the effort they made during the war. The representatives' proposals point to the fact that there have been many representations of this, but nevertheless they clearly stress that it is perceived locally by many as if the regional and local war history in the north is too little clear. I think we should take that seriously. Increased knowledge and research are important. There is a lot of good work today, for example. Varanger the museum's dissemination of partisan history, and – as others have mentioned – the trade community in history and World War II at UiT – Norway's Arctic University, are also working to strengthen itself. The Ministry of Defence also has its own history project, and, as the Minister of Defence stressed here, it is also important to make the whole of the Norwegian people's war experience visible. Although much is done, I believe that the government and the Storting must do more. As part of the 70th anniversary marking, a professorate on World War II has been granted funds. These means shall sustain and further develop knowledge of World War II as part of the history of the nation. The government is concerned that the money will be used to convey the breadth of the Norwegian war experience, including the war in the north. Universities and higher education institutions, as several have mentioned, cannot be imposed on the content of teaching or the content of research, and they themselves must develop strategy and priorities. There are several institutions that have developed professional environments that make them current recipients of this money, and I have noticed that the universities of both Tromsø and Oslo have been mentioned in different contexts. State universities and higher education institutions are receiving framework funding from the State budget, and long since the department has been awarding places of employment for the establishment of professorates. I have also not realized that someone really wants to go back to such a system. Universities and colleges are themselves responsible for prioritising the use of the financial framework in line with overall leadership, and I want to be least earmarked for funding. I think that is also a policy supported by the majority of the institutions. In the budgetary review of the government's proposal for the establishment of a professorate, a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence considered that the professorate, as they wrote, should be set up at the University of Oslo so that it can be integrated into central professional environments in the field, cf. Inner. 7 S for 2014-2015. Now there is a proposal for a representative in which it is believed that Norway’s Arctic University will be preferable. Then I might have to correct it a little bit after hearing the beginning of the debate, because I see the proposal there that you want a new professorship in addition to what is already there. In any case, I mean by this as a starting point that it illustrates that it is not a good idea to allocate funds after a political assessment of which institution you think is best suited to gain new knowledge about World War II for Norway, including North Norway. I believe that quality assessments should be crucial for who receives the funds in question. The professional environment or environments – wherever they may be located in the country – must then show that they are best suited to strengthen research on the importance of war throughout the country. The Ministry of Knowledge is therefore in dialogue with the Research Council on how to allocate the money, based on quality. We're proposing to use the Research Council's established systems. It will be effective, will prevent the creation of new bureaucracy and will be known to the institutions. Cooperation between professional environments will be an indicator of quality and award criteria. The resources of the professorate have been allocated to the Ministry of Defence's budget. I have good dialogue with the Minister of Defence, and the letter of assignment from the Ministry of Defence to the Research Council will be sent so that the money can be allocated to the Research Council and published before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1977	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1980	Let me first say that it is gratifying to see that the Minister of Knowledge is now probably beginning to get the right idea of what is contained in the draft representative that we are dealing with here today. History has shown us a lot, for example. that if a political majority wants to do so, you can do a lot of things. It is fully possible for a Council of State to facilitate more research into a particular topic, to set up professorates within that theme, and to express their wishes, for example. the manner in which it is to be arranged. It was e.g. fully possible for Stortinget to arrange a professorship at the University of Oslo. I have not seen that the Right Party or the Progressive Party has criticized the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for what was then done. The question that I am asking, and which I am sure many in the north are also wondering after the Council of State answers, is: What will the Minister of Knowledge now say to the Research Council about the underlying criteria? What can we expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1989	Let me first say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence consists of all our parties, and that, as far as I remember, was a unanimous comitology. My point of drawing it forward – it was quite a ‘should’ formula – was simply to problem making it a political decision rather than a professional decision. Then it's very important to also stress that it's a political decision that you want such a professorate. It is also a political decision that we believe that there are parts of Norwegian war history that are underlit, that there is a need for further research. It is also important to say that there are all possibilities for this to be located at the University of Tromsø — Norway’s Arctic University, but it must be done in a tidy way and with a tidy process. What we have said to the Research Council – now I have put the draft letter of allocation over there – is that it should be distributed according to the quality criterion, i.e. who can contribute most with the best professional quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e1996	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2001	In the past there has been a debate in this Chamber on the history of the north of the war in connection with an interpellation by the representative of Bergstø, a debate which I perceived gave a broad cross-political consensus on the importance of increasing the focus on the efforts and sufferings of the people of Northern Norway in the context of World War II. I've grown up with a father who lived his whole life with trauma after his stay at Grini. I grew up with food songs from the camp as part of my cultural history, and stories about how my father's family tried to escape from the Germans when they came – about the horror and suffering they suffered as a result of this. In a sense, you might say that I have been privileged in a way that through my childhood has acquired such a profound knowledge of this important part of our history and the things that took place in my parents' youth and childhood. So for me, my growth has no doubt marked how I view society, and how I view both refugees and human rights issues in the world today. Knowledge of your own history is important in understanding the world around us in a better way. And because the history of the North Norwegian war has been such a clear part of my life, I have not been aware that this has been something that other people in Norway don't know as well. It's the way this works -- you're governed by your understanding and your preferences -- and that's exactly why it's so important that Stortinget clearly tells you that we want this focus on the history of Northern Norway. Therefore, we think it is sad that Stortinget does not use this opportunity to follow up his own words from the interpellation debate earlier. So this important knowledge of the sufferings and trials of those who had to flee, and the knowledge of all those who stood up and actively fought against the invasion, are now in danger of disappearing completely. For no one can tell the story as those who have experienced it themselves can. My father and several of those who were in his situation have already gone away. In spite of this, then, a total mass does not want to go for a solution that fully ensures that it will be the Northern Norwegian story that is written in the next bet. It is important that knowledge of Northern Norway's history is written down and integrated into the general story of Norway, and that it becomes part of the whole nation's consciousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2014	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2030	As a educational politician, I have traveled a lot around schools and seen how computers, iPads and tablets have become part of everyday life. There is reason to commend many teachers for the good work they do in that context. Nevertheless, there is an feedback I have received repeatedly from school leaders, and it is about the great difference in the competence of teachers, about how they use ICT in a pedagogically good way in teaching. Paradoxically, it is often the newly educated teachers who are most uncertain about how to use this tool. My commitment to this matter is based on past experience from business, in the publishing industry and now also as a education policy. I am of the opinion that if we are to succeed in achieving the objectives of the Knowledge Lift, we need to think a little differently about the use of ICT in school. Digital skills were introduced to the school as basic skills in the context of the Knowledge Lift. Being able to use digital skills is promised as one of the five basic skills students will acquire during school, in line with reading, billing and being able to express themselves in writing and orally. The acquisition of digital skills by students requires access to infrastructure and teachers with good skills in ICT as a teaching tool. In recent years, we have seen a huge rise in ICT infrastructure in schools. It's a long time between being invited into a dusty data room when I'm on school visits. Laptops, iPads and other laptops have now been taken over in the classroom. It shows that we are witnessing a tearing technological development that offers new opportunities for the use of ICT in the teaching of a number of subjects, while certainly offering new challenges. Once we've taken, and take, this huge promise on the infrastructure side, we have to ask ourselves the question of how we're going to use this for the benefit of the students. And let's be clear: I'm not at all a fan of iPad or PC use in all subjects all the time. My approach to the issue is, rather, how to get educationally correct and critical use of ICT in school for the best interests of learners. Obviously, teachers play a crucial role here. If ICT tools are to contribute to learning, we need teachers and school leaders who are safe to use and who have the right educational tools and skills to use them. Teacher training must then provide teachers with both the tools and the skills they need to master this in a good way. This brings me to the status of what is happening in teacher training today. One of the main findings of the 2013 NIFU report ‘ICT in Teacher Training — Towards Professional Digital Competence?’ is that: «development of professional digital competence throughout is weakly anchored in the management of teacher training and most of the training is lacking an overall approach to the development of such competence». Another conclusion is: ‘The development of professional digital competence of students depends in many of the teacher’s education on fires among teachers.’ Although we should not cut all teacher training courses across a comb, this is a disturbing finding, especially in the light of the findings of the report ‘Newly educated teachers — professional digital competence and experience with ICT in teacher training’, which was developed by the ICT Centres in education. It points out that teachers consider that there is a lack of consistency between their own education and the requirements for the use of ICT in education. This may indicate that maps and terrain do not always match. We have a goal that students should acquire digital skills, but the teachers don't feel that education gives them the tools they need. That being said, many teachers have acquired a solid knowledge of the use of ICT in schools in arenas other than teacher training, and that is affordable and good, but I think we should do more systematic work through teacher training. ICT in school is so much more than being able to write a problem in Word. This winter I visited the big trade fair BETT 2015 in London. This is an educational fair that gathers what can crawl and go from environments in ICT at school in the United Kingdom. There we had the pleasure of meeting students from Rothaugen school in Bergen. They used drones in mathematics education, and they used it to figure out angles and vectors on the drone path, which were filmed in order to be measured afterwards. Such creative use of new technologies makes teaching more real and motivating for students. Then we've all read newspaper articles about students who use the PC to be on Facebook instead of to follow Norwegian education. But it's just to get more education than the one they have at Rothaugen School, and fewer newspaper articles about students who use the PC for anything but to follow the teaching, that I think ICT needs to be stronger in teacher training. If we succeed in giving newly educated teachers the knowledge they need to make the best use of ICT in their teaching, it will help considerably. It is also worth noting what teachers themselves answer about the use of ICT in school. In the survey underpinning the report ‘Newly educated teachers — professional digital competence and experience with ICT in teacher training’, as I have already mentioned, 65 pst. of the teachers requested that they use ICT to make the students more interested in the professional, and 71 pst. fully agrees with the claim that ‘ICT contributes to making my teaching more varied’. And then I can mention that 79 pst. of those asked, yes to the question of whether they need to develop or renew their ICT skills and digital skills in relation to their job as a teacher. For example, with regard to the content of teacher training: 32 pst. that they have had very little benefit from the training to learn about the overall integration of ICT in all disciplines. I am proud of the teacher-lifted government with the knowledge minister at the head has started. A new five-year master's education for teachers is a long-term boost. So I'm very excited about what kind of thinking the Council of State is about the possibility of focusing ICT more strongly on this education so that all students can acquire the digital skills they're going to. In a top-forming editorial in Fädrelandsvennen on 24 January 2015 entitled ‘Da klång’, Chief Editor Eivind Ljøstad wrote: ‘politicians must then realise that the future of schools is digital. [[...]] At a completely different level than the case is today. The digital strategy of the schools can still remind you of the EDB selection subject from the 1980s.’ The article was followed by Professor Marianne Østensen on 3 February 2015. She writes, among other things:\t\t You can change ‘I would say that never before has the school had a greater chance of structuring and adapting the teaching to the individual student. There is a variety of digital opportunities that are just waiting to be used. The danger is that we drown in this diversity." This illustrates well the challenge facing the school in the absence of monitoring of school investment in equipment, infrastructure and software with the necessary development of competence. That's why I want to finish my post with the question from the interpellation: How will the Council of State focus ICT in the new five-year master's education for teachers? How are we going to give our teacher students the knowledge they need to deal with new digital opportunities in a pedagogically and educationally good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2087	First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree with Benestad's representative that competent and professionally motivated teachers are essential to our success at school. It also applies in the field of ICT. The competence of teachers is crucial for the learning of students, whether they are a subject of education or of basic skills such as digital. In the Teacher Lift, this is highlighted in several contexts. Teachers with good digital competence have e.g. a larger repertoire of teaching and learning materials to choose from. The digitally competent teacher also knows when to refrain from using ICT in teaching and how to limit the use of ICT in teaching. The plan for primary school teacher training consists of an overall framework plan and national guidelines. The framework plan states that teacher training should also be in line with the school curriculum in force. Thus, the school curriculum is also guiding and guiding teacher training. The Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for the framework plan. Teacher training itself, through the National Council for Teacher Training, is responsible for the guidelines. The framework plan for primary school teacher training requires inter alia: that candidates have knowledge of working with the basic skills of students in expressing themselves orally, reading, expressing themselves in writing, calculating and using digital tools in and across disciplines. Candidates shall understand the societal perspectives related to technological and media development. This means, among other things: safe use of the technology and knowledge of privacy and freedom of expression. Teachers must be able to help children and young people develop a reflected relationship with digital arenas. There is therefore a clear requirement in today’s framework plan that work on ICT and digital skills should be included in education. But Benestad’s representative is interested in the new education and the emphasis on ICT in these. In the mandate of the Framework Plan Committee, I state that the new education programmes will be based on existing primary school teacher training to the extent that it is appropriate. Furthermore, I have made the point that it is not desirable for the new framework plans to have a higher level of detail than the current framework plan. Retail management may hamper the professional development of teacher training. It shows, among other things: evaluations of the old general teacher training courses. And that's exactly a bad development for the professional development that we want to achieve. In the mandate of the Framework Plan Committee, I have stressed that work on the basic skills and use of ICT in the field of education and training needs to be well anchored. I have therefore also clarified that the framework plan will provide leadership according to the basic skills of the Knowledgelift and the use of ICT in the work on subjects. So I've addressed the challenges. I trust that the framework plan will provide a good framework for education. But the job is not done even if the framework plan is good. The government has the ambition to raise the quality of both school and teacher education, and for students to learn more in school, teachers have to make demands and have expectations for pupils’ achievements. Similarly, we want teacher training to set higher standards and to expect more from teachers in the new education. Yes, the report on ICT in teacher training, to which Benestad refers, had relatively discouraging, if not surprising, findings. Previous research into Norwegian teacher training has also demonstrated slow development in the field of ICT pedagogical use. It is not uncommon for developments in the labour market to be faster than developments in the education system. But that doesn't mean we're going to accept it. The report dates back to 2013 and was ordered by the Centre for ICT in education. The Centre is one instrument of government to achieve the policy objectives in this area. The Centre works for good digital competence in teacher training and in kindergarten and school employees. According to the annual report, the Centre has succeeded in establishing good and comprehensive cooperation with teacher training institutions. The Centre finds that its dialogue and visits to institutions have acted as a catalyst for the work of the institutions: Many of the teacher training courses now use the Centre’s many offerings — including the teaching materials, educational arrangements, etc. developed for the school. National Council for Teacher Training — which consists of all the dean’s teachers’ training courses — organised a large consultation conference earlier in our work on national guidelines. Here, the Center for ICT in education was inside as one of two partners. One of the themes was just digital competence. So teachers have also addressed the issues, and that's good. Management's commitment is a prerequisite for good development: development towards a school and a teacher training for the future. The ICT concept contains many and many things. I am concerned that neither students, teachers, nor teachers should learn ICT for the sake of ICT. There is no goal in itself to master the most possible things, programs or platforms. I want students and students to learn how to use ICT correctly. That's what matters. By doing so, I believe that they should be able to use ICT in the learning work at school and in education and be prepared for work and life afterwards. ICT is now a necessary tool in all disciplines. Digital competences are also important to become good citizens in a democratic society. Teachers must have the skills to assess both what kind of ICT is useful in the teaching of a subject, when and how it is to be used, and not least when ICT is not to be used, when – to put it graphically – they ask students to put the laptop away. Yes, the government prioritises the basic subjects mathematics, English and Norwegian/Samian/Norwegian sign language, but there is no contradiction between this priority and work on digital competence. Digital competence is just to be an integral part of the subject, according to the Knowledge Commitment. There are tools and tools that do not control but can stimulate the desired development for better quality in teacher training. I have already mentioned the ICT centre. ICT centres in education are also participants in the reference group of the Framework Programme Committee for the new five-year courses. I have also seen that the teacher training itself is moving in the right direction, so there is reason to hope that the teacher training is getting better. But the job is not done if the teacher training never gets that good. ‘Everything’ is not taught, and cannot be learned, through basic training as a teacher. The teachers we are training today, too, must be prepared for lifelong learning. ICT is perhaps the area where it is most obvious that learning has to happen throughout life. Teachers with new skills must meet development-oriented schools, which set clear professional goals, which share knowledge, and where to produce roses and rice within the profession community. Schools with strong professional communities will multiply the impact of better teacher training, professional development of teachers, leadership development and career paths. So it's a teamwork to build a better school. School owners and principals must know and take their share of responsibility. We need to strengthen the school as a learning organization. Good, professionally strong and motivated teachers in schools with strong professional communities, with clear leadership, and a committed and listening school owner – that is what we need, both in general and in order to increase the digital competence of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2113	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I am pleased that the Council of State in the mandate of the Framework Plan Committee has highlighted the work on basic skills and stressed that the use of ICT in the field of education and training needs to be well anchored. So I'm glad that the challenge is addressed. My concern is that this needs to become clear enough to ensure a better focus on the educational and didactic integrated use of ICT. This is about society's expectations for both school and teacher education. The report ‘Digital competence in Norwegian teacher education’, by Per Hetland and Nils Henrik Solum, published in 2008, identified two main strategies that our educational institutions followed in their work on digital competence. One is referred to as the ‘tool strategy’. This strategy points to digital technology as one of several tools for teachers and students. The second strategy was referred to as the integration strategy. This strategy implies the use of digital technology as an input to change the fundamentals of learning and the organisation of learning activities. It was pointed out that in the first strategy, the tools are the central one, while in the integration strategy, the users and their learning strategies are the central ones, which have an active role in designing and implementing the technology. There is no doubt that a strategy such as the latter requires great involvement, management and strong professional digital competence. What we need to make sure is that selected strategies are anchored throughout the field of teacher education — including the field of practice. If the students in school are to succeed, the way is also through the skilled, competent teacher. If we return to Professor Marianne Østensen, as I quoted in my first post, from Fatherland Buddy on February 3rd this year, she continues her post by saying: ‘That is why it is particularly important that we find this out there in the world to be structured and made easily accessible in the classroom by professionals and then in close association with any apprenticeships used in each subject. We have the tools and the possibilities. This is indisputable.’ The East ends its post as follows: ‘I want the school to move forward and for all students to have the best, structured and adapted day-to-day school.’ It requires teachers with a high level of digital competence and school leaders at all levels with a clear digital strategy, which must be anchored both in teacher training and in practice. I look forward to the further debate now and hope for good input.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2141	There are actually two debates here. One debate is about the framework plan and the overall framework for the school. Now we have set up a framework plan committee, which is working on creating a new draft, and then it's a little too early for me to go into the details of it now. They will work through their draft, submit it, and then we will deal with it and send it to the hearing in the usual way. However, it is important to bring with it both the issues raised by the interpellant, and the lessons I have learned about the fact that the work on ICT is an important part of it. Question no. 2 is about our whole tool to make good use of ICT in classrooms. In this context, I would like to highlight some changes. We made a very small, but important change in the letter of assignment to the Centers for ICT in education, where we pointed out that an important task for them is to guide what is bad use of ICT, just to avoid being a time thief. In other major projects we have, for example: The aim is to strengthen the basic skills, but also to build teams at school, to gain more cooperation and to work with more varied forms of education. One way to make teaching methods more varied is just good use of digital tools. I would also like to say that in the course of continuing training, digital tools are also an important part of further training provision, but it can certainly be further strengthened. It is difficult to achieve a practical change in all classrooms, driven from the top. I think that some of the ways we can get a better digital culture are, first of all, getting a better-equipped teacherhood out of teacher training, and there I fully agree with Tveiten Benestad's representative that there are too many differences today. The second is that each municipality is creating a digital action plan, precisely, which is not only about how to get equipment in, but also how to get the skills up, i.e. how to use this equipment – not only so that students learn to master specific programs, but also so that students can learn more in other subjects, not only learn better digital skills, but also, for example, how to use them. math, using digital tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2152	Some basic skills are necessary prerequisites for learning and developing both school and community life. We've defined the skills that are particularly important, through the curriculum of the promise of knowledge. It's reading, calculating, expressing itself verbally and in writing and using digital tools. These are side by side. Some of them may be more traditional ‘school’ than others. It's e.g. unevidently that the school must provide traditional reading and writing training. It's a matter of course. But being able to use digital tools is a little more diffuse and more often the subject of debate: how much, for what use, and instead of what? The Minister of Knowledge contributed to the debate with the statement that it has ‘our great and somewhat naive political enthusiasm for ICT in Norwegian schools for the last decade’. I'm excited, especially when we talk about school, and especially when we talk about something that's promised as an overall focus area: a basic skill. But that enthusiasm is naive, I don't entirely agree – until that's the critical attention too much. In fact, one has tried and failed to do something as new as ICT in school actually is, at least if you look at it in relation to traditional reading training – perhaps even when we are talking about investment in equipment. It's a transition to replace the LØKO board with the digital Leseland books, version 2.0, but maybe not primarily for the students. It shows the 2013 ICILS survey, which tests students’ digital skills in 18 countries. Norway is at the top of the survey, with a positive sign. A little bit different for the teachers, and here we don't have to be naive. This is also part of the nucleus of the interpellation. Studies show that teachers do not believe that the training of teachers in the use of ICT in education has been very good. Nevertheless, we know that many teachers consider themselves to be generally well-qualified in ICT, but the variations are large. And is this really enough? The teachers themselves believe that they need more. Many of us are generally quite good ICT-competent, but when it comes to using ICT within a particular field, I think we have a way to go someplace. I think, for example, I had mastered poorly handling the software for paying wages here at Stortinget. It could have had exciting consequences. And as Tveiten Benestad's representative said, one thing is to open a word processor on the PC and ask the students to write a text, something else is to use ICT properly in reading training, custom training and for students with dyslexia. Teachers must therefore have good general ICT skills to prepare students for a modern and digital world, but teachers must also have a good specific competence in the use of ICT as peer-to-peer learning tools and tools at school. It does not think that any of the teachers are generally ICT-competent – everyone has to be particularly ICT-competent. That is why we proposed last year in the budget that more attention should be paid to ICT skills for teachers and teachers. All the other basic skills are prioritised and promoted in the continuing education and training promise, and we felt that in this context it was also necessary to enhance the ICT skills of teachers. But unfortunately we didn't get a majority for that. We believe, of course, that this too must be an important part of teacher training, and we assume that the government is strongly focused on this in the design of new teacher training. The Council of State concluded its intervention by saying that there is reason to hope that teacher training will improve ICT. I am afraid that hoping is not enough – I think we need to make sure that they get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2165	When we see the major upheavals taking place in the media, this actually shows how ICT affects social development and how we approach knowledge. Even though it's still text, numbers, images and in some cases video, technology makes the knowledge spread in a new way. We see, for example: digital media provide content much more dynamically and not in a traditional way starting and ending, as in books and newspapers. This opens up new opportunities and provides educational frameworks that require new and good educational strategies. Even I am a fan of reading newspapers in the good old way, but at the same time I admit – and I'm probably not a great fortune-teller – that the paper newspapers may be gone in a five-year time, yes, perhaps earlier. Information flows go faster and underline the need for critical thinking and that we are able to distinguish relevant from less relevant information. It'll be, for example. facilitate the search for information, and tools can help to speed up feedback through, for example, text analysis and correction of a real-time job in school. This creates a learning framework that is new, and that, if used wisely, balanced and sensible, can actually provide better ways to help students, both professionally and faster. This is likely to free up time by going from correction to guidance, by going from reporting to following up the students. Not least, this could help those students who have additional challenges in their everyday school life. We already see that schools, even kindergartens, use these tools to get a better didactic approach when helping their students or their children to gain a greater sense of mastery. In Tromsø we have a test project at a school where they have been awarded iPads. There you use apps and you have the teachers on course, which helps to make math corrections go completely automatically, and the teachers get a lot more time to follow up each student. Yes, there is even a software that analyses the text and makes it easier to engage in dialogue with students about what should be improved. This shows the diversity of possibilities. I don't think it's a good idea that we from the Storting should tell which things or app you're going to use to make sure that we have teachers who can master these things in a good way. But there is no doubt that the educational framework and the educational or methodological strategies that teachers have with them in the toolbox will be absolutely crucial to how we manage to put this technology into practice in order to create a smarter, more forward-looking, relevant and not least better school, which sees the students, and which allows you to start early with adapted training and take advantage of all the resources and technologies available in a welfare society such as Norway. I therefore look with great positivity to the outcome of the design of the new teacher training and, in particular, the educational and educational development of ICT strategies by the various educational institutions. It's a tool that's important for the better dissemination and follow-up of the students, and I'm absolutely sure we'll get to this together in such a way that we'll be able to help all the students meet the future in a smarter way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2182	It is an important area the Tveiten Benestad representative addresses in his interpellation. From a political point of view, ICT in schools has been an important field of activity in Norway for several years. An explicit goal has been to equip future generations to be the best fit to participate in the knowledge society, where technology increasingly affects our everyday lives. When the knowledge promise was introduced in 2006, digital skills were introduced as one of the five basic skills children and young people need to acquire through training. Unfortunately, we see that the digital competence of teacher training is not good enough. It is generally a major problem that access to ICT skills in Norway is too weak. The need for people with ICT skills is great in almost all sectors. To solve this problem, we need to ensure that those who are going to teach the teachers of the future, who are going to teach our children again, have enough competence. It is important for several reasons, not least because the ICT industry is one of the major value drivers in Norway. It is Norway's third largest industry, with more than 70000 employees. At that time, it is essential that education and training policies at all levels contribute to the enhancement of skills. In the NIFU report «ICT in teacher training: Towards professional digital competence?», the main conclusion is that the development of professional digital competence is constantly weakly anchored in the management of teacher training and that most of the training is lacking an overall approach to the development of this type of competence. The professional profile of teacher training in this field is also poorly developed, and the competence of professional staff is unfortunately very variable. The report states that as long as not all skilled teachers are at an adequate ‘digital professional level’, this would undermine the ability of students to adopt a comprehensive educational approach to ICT. ICT in school should be an important tool for increasing learning outcomes and developing learning strategies. There is no goal in itself for teachers to use tablets and computers on time and without time, which the interpellant was also involved in. The point must be that they should learn to use ICT properly, for the best of their education. Good competence of school staff, infrastructure and accessibility are crucial prerequisites for success. The party of progress will stress that the teacher is the most important factor in the learning of the learners. It is therefore important that the teacher has the necessary skills to teach digital aids and skills. As mentioned above, digital competence is now considered to be one of the five basic skills children and young people need to acquire through training. It should also be reflected in teacher training. We do not believe, however, that it is wise to go in and regulate the framework plans in detail, and we believe that this is not necessary either. In our view, ICT, as part of the basic skills, is an important part of teacher training, implicit in the current framework plans. The best way to improve ICT skills remains to bet on the quality of teacher training. Teacher training needs to be given priority and increased interaction between institutions, the focus on learning and quality, the willingness to change and more cooperation between educational institutions and business are important factors to achieve this. Perhaps there is also reason to expect that the structural reform in higher education will have a positive impact on the content and quality of teacher training, including ICT competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2203	First, thank you to the interpellant for putting ICT training on the agenda in the context of the new teacher training under planning. I record that there is quite a cross-political consensus that ICT is important for the school in the years to come. I also record that several of us are concerned about the content of the new teacher training. It would therefore have been interesting, I think, if the Council of State would have informed the Storting about how far you have come with the new plans, and then I think of all the subjects in the new teacher training, without really having to ask so much about it. The framework plan is going to be good, it was said by the Council of State, so we look forward to seeing the content, we others too. The digital skills of teachers are very important if we are to achieve the goal of digital skills as a basic skill for students. Today, in many cases, we may experience that students are more skilled in ICT than their teachers are. Most young people today have grown up with digital aids, as opposed to many teachers. Kids learn easier, and they learn easier. As we discussed in the ICT debate last week, reference has been made to various studies that describe the challenge facing society to educate enough people to meet the needs of future employment and business. If we keep pace today, we will lack 10,000 ICT skills in 2030, and the 2013 Monitor survey said that we do not meet the skills targets for digital competence in school. The KUF Committee has today consulted on changes to the Training Act, which has focused on the competence of teachers and proposals to provide skills requirements for vocational training. ICT is not a subject at school. There are no formal requirements for digital competence in teachers. There are also no plans for further training. There will therefore still be many teachers who do not master the subject well enough to achieve the skills objectives ahead. This is important if we're to avoid a digital class distinction, which we might see a tendency to now. The possibilities are many, as representatives have previously referred to, but these are not the polite things we are discussing right now. The new teacher training needs to take inwards that you are not good enough. One thing is to use the digital tools sea, take notes, keep lists, etc., but there's something else and something more the basic digital skills should be. This requires knowledge from the teacher – which is a matter of course in the new teacher training course, the Centre Party believes – but it is also important that one does not ignore this area and prioritize digital knowledge when assessing the provision of continuing training. According to the Centers for ICT in Education, data use among school students is on the decline. This is very strange at a time when too much time spent on data is considered a problem. It is also not good for newly educated teachers to think that computer education is too bad in teacher schools. In order to do something about it, it takes a boost in teacher training. It's not just useful to put digital skills on a teacher training plan and think that we'll get good teachers. New teachers need to be met at the teacher's school of teachers with good knowledge. A report from GESCI from 2010 shows that teachers tend to use ICT strategies as they have learned to use technology. Teacher trainers are also good role models – or bad. A chronicle of two NTNU staff in 2010, ‘Digital competence in school — the responsibility of teacher training’, states that the focus areas need to be changed and that teachers’ students need to obtain a portfolio of professional and digital competences for their own teacher training. The 2013 NIFU report shows that nothing has happened since then. I don't know what competence is around the educational institutions right now, at the beginning of May 2015, but we have reports saying that the teachers' perception of their competence in this area is different from the students' perception of what they get. In other words, that is not good enough. I think it's important to check this out regularly. It is very important that digital knowledge in the teacher's school is also part of the basic competence that the teacher's student acquires. There is no guarantee that a five-year teacher education will change anything about this. It's not the number of hours or years it depends on, but what teacher training institutions spend the hours they have at their disposal, and how they do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2224	ICT in education has many elements that need to be fulfilled and met in order for us to have a successful focus on ICT in education. The emphasis on teacher training is one of the elements, and it is good that the focus has been placed on this by the interpellant. But at the same time, there are also many other elements that make it difficult to achieve the objectives of the Knowledge Charter, and that help to influence schools not always to have equal strategies to achieve these objectives. Therefore, it is important to focus on the other challenges as well, which it is important to meet in order to achieve the objectives of the Knowledge Promise, and which I consider closely related to what the interpellant asks about. The minister also points to what is happening in the classroom as an important element. There has been much said today about the school owners, about the lack of strategies and about the lack of digital competence in school today, but little has been said about the surrounding reasons why things are as they are. Secondary school has succeeded in ensuring that the school has the necessary hardware in place for its students. The situation for all secondary schools in Norway today is that the technical side is well maintained, and all students have a PC. However, the situation is different for primary schools. Here, a number of municipalities experience major challenges related to being able to keep the engine fleet of the students in a satisfactory condition. PC is an expensive fresh product that needs to be replaced regularly in order to function at all, and ICT support in the organisation often needs to be shared by a large number of employees as well as students. The tight economic reality under which many municipalities work makes it very difficult to keep track of developments on the ICT side. For example, at a nursery school in the municipality of Nordreisa, which is my municipality of origin, there must be: 280 students share on 31 PCs. This means that the reality of newly educated teachers in the workplace can make the leap between teacher training and work very big. This is important to bring with you when you talk about teacher training. Many teachers experience computers and the Internet as a disruptive element in their working life. At the same time, the same teachers say that they see great potential related to ICT as a learning tool, but they feel that at present there is little software suitable for the purpose and that, to the extent that software exists, there is no money to buy the necessary licenses and access. This is why it becomes so important that when we talk about ICT in teacher training, we also look at the other issues related to ICT in school. It is important that we ensure good provision of continuing education so that all teachers in Norwegian school will have the same prerequisites for using the tools that we have, in a good way in teaching, including those that have been in school for a while. At the same time, greater efforts must be made to develop the necessary software for teaching purposes. It is important to ensure that the necessary digital learning tools are available, both for primary and secondary schools, and money should be allocated here so that educators and programmers can work together to create good and open programmes available to all teachers. This transparency is important to ensure that there are no differences in education between students attending schools in rich municipalities and those who go to municipalities where the local economy is poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2237	We are approaching the end of this debate, and I would like to thank you for constructive contributions. I feel that this is a topic that is important to get high on the agenda during the period we are now in, where the new five-year teacher training is to be molded. Governments said that it is difficult to change school practice from the top, and that might be something in it. I agree with that, but I also agree with the representative, Bjørnø, who says that we have to make sure to facilitate change. I am very pleased that the Council of State is so clear about using the ICT Centres in education as partners in the ongoing processes, and I am pleased that the National Council for Teacher Education focuses on digital competence. I also agree, of course, with the Council of State that teachers must have the competence to assess both what kind of ICT is useful in the teaching of subjects, how it should be used, and not least when. I am concerned that through teacher training, we now need to ensure that we get digitally skilled teachers who can help to reduce the current differences in digital competence — both between schools and within schools. Last but not least, I am concerned that students will be given the opportunity to work on a professional basis, where technological opportunities are provided to increase students' learning outcomes. At the same time, they must receive good training in digital judgment. In this context, I would like to say that, as in so many other contexts, research-based education requires that work on digital skills also be accompanied by research resources. In the end, I just want to tell you a little story. At home we celebrate the third Christmas day with a big family party, small and big, and the repertoire is Monopol and Alias. This year it was like my niece, who is in the seventh grade, said, "You, it's not Monopoly that applies, it's not Alias that applies, I want to play Kahoot!" because we do that at school. It's fun, and we learn a lot from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2249	I'll say a thousand thanks for an interesting discussion. It is important to facilitate change, and that is precisely what we are doing both through a new teacher education and through the Framework Plan Committee, which is now set down. There are, therefore, too many differences between schools and between teacher training places in their ability to provide teachers with a good starting point for sensible work with ICT. The new Framework Plan Committee will deliver its proposal during the year, and as I have explained in my article, a strengthened ICT is also part of that mission. That doesn't mean we're going to hope that we get better. We're gonna get better at it. But then we have to work with ICT at the same time also in all the other initiatives we have towards school. In this respect, it is not least to be able to see the crucial distinction between ICT as a learning tool, ICT to learn digital skills by itself and ICT as a distraction or barrier to learning. It is precisely the teacher's competence and the driving rules you create at school that enable us to ensure that we can see the difference in the different things and use ICT in the best possible way. Then I stand by my words that were referred to in the debate, that there has been a partly naive investment in ICT, especially in equipment, in Norwegian school in the last ten years. The reason for that is very simple. There has been more concern about how much equipment you get than about how to use the equipment. So there's no documented context that says that if you only have multiple computers in a school, the students learn more. That's how you use the critical device. There is a review tone in almost all educational research that quality is more important than quantity. It also applies in the field of ICT. Again: Thank you for the debate. I look forward to further discussions also on the content of a future five-year master's education for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2262	The debate on substance is closed. 15 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2276	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2283	Value added tax within the scope of this Committee appears to be a hot topic at present. We're discussing this for the media, for cultural building, for volunteering. We are discussing low VAT rates, VAT compensation, VAT exemptions – and VAT compensation for teams and associations that build sports facilities, which is the case today. It is not surprising, of course, that these debates go on, because they affect an important part of the framework conditions. Instead of discussing VAT, I would like to discuss more content, quality and innovation and not least inclusion through good work in the voluntary sector. Of course, I understand that, among other things. VAT compensation schemes also contribute and provide a basis for this, and I have great respect for the fact that there is a renewed debate on this. I would like to thank the Committee on Flexible and Good Cooperation on this matter. First of all, I must point out that we believe that this debate belongs to the consideration of the budget, and that is reflected in the majority's proposal for a decision. As regards compensation schemes and grant schemes to teams and organisations, we see, and understand, that predictability is a very central and essential point. From my own sailing time in sports management, I remember well how demanding it was to put in place a credible budget when the spirit of hard work was to be challenged, so that you could not come back afterwards and ask for more hard work, sold lots or begging for projects that were to be financed. Many here in the Chamber have attended similar rounds, and I am not surprised that there seems to be a great deal of consensus here in the Chamber on the intention of this Document 8, which comes from the Central Party. When this scheme was introduced in 2010, it was introduced as a framework regime. The red-green government, of course, had the same intention of providing coverage and predictability, and this was largely solved through increased frameworks from year to year. This has also resulted in full compensation for the applicants, except for a year when there was a reduction of 10 pst. Today's government has also followed up on increasing budgets. One of the major challenges is that although a person knows the size of the projects that qualify for reimbursement, he does not know when they are completed and the application comes. The year in which the project is completed or the following year must be applied. It goes without saying that this can make big differences from year to year. The record number of applications for the fourth year was recovered by increased budget line and by the last 50 million. kr through the maturing of the accounts for 2014. This shows that there is great will in the government to meet the expectations of full reimbursement for this group. It's important for the government and government parties to have good order in the economy. Any open budget line challenges this. If it seems easy to turn this scheme from a regulatory framework to a regulatory one, it is nevertheless a challenge in the overall economic sense. It is therefore absolutely necessary to take time to look at alternative solutions in order to achieve the desired predictability. This is why the majority today proposes an order for political leadership in the ministry to get some answers on how predictability can be established, without compromising the government’s ability to manage well. The minority will follow up the proposalers’ wish to adopt a regulatory management of this system now and will certainly further justify this view itself. In Document 8 the proposers also have two proposals on the extension of the scheme. This is a well-functioning and targeted system that we see no reason to change its content. The intention of predictability that can trigger construction under the direction of teams and associations is important here, and that is why we ask the government to look at possible solutions and come back to the Stortinget at the latest in the budget for 2016. The deadline for applying for VAT compensation for sports facilities expires on these days. It will be interesting to see if the application amount goes down a little bit or much up, or down a little. In any case, I know that the government, the government parties on the Stortinget and the cooperation parties are committed to following up this system. So we are not done with this matter today, but we deliver an order and are expecting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2300	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on the matter. As the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, says, there are several areas in which VAT is being discussed which affect the responsibilities of the Committee on Culture these days. This is also the case. Several adjustments to the VAT regime have been necessary following the introduction of a general compensation scheme for the municipal sector when the municipal minister was named Erna Solberg, more than ten years ago. The background to the changes was, as the Minister of Culture writes in his reply to the Committee, the fear that the municipalities could have an ‘economic motive to provide taxable services themselves rather than to purchase services from’ the private market. [[...]] Solberg wanted more privatisation then, as now. This year the same scheme is introduced in the State sector. In that letter to the Committee on Proposal 3 of the draft representative Widvey further states: ‘The purpose of rescinding the right to compensation for the rental of immovable property is to prevent municipalities from obtaining a competitive advantage against private landlords.’ [[...]] Further: ‘It is not appropriate to describe it as a financial penalty for a municipal lessor to be treated in the same way as a private person.’ This is in line with the Ot proposals. pp. 1 for 2002–2003, against which the Labour Party was opposed. In the case of proposal 2, we share the reference of the Council of State to the compensation scheme for voluntary teams and associations, which is intended to cover this, but it assumes that the item will be increased in the future – if it is to be a good arrangement. In this respect, I refer to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, where we suggested that the item be increased by 100 million. kr more than the government proposed. In the case of proposal 1, sport teams owning their own facilities, compensation has been granted on the basis of a framework scheme. Since the scheme was introduced by the Stoltenberg Government in 2010, this scheme has provided almost full compensation through the framework allocation granted by the Stortinget. The amount requested has been between 50 and 60 million. kr, with which it was also budgeted for 2014. The deadline for applying at the beginning of May 2014 showed a large increase, and the uncertainty of a number of teams and associations became very clear. Sports facilities are important for the ability of people to engage in physical activity and as gathering places for children and young people. We know that sport creates local identity and contributes to integration and increased cultural understanding. Therefore, sports facilities are important. These installations represent a major economic boost for sport and are financed, inter alia: through the profits of Norwegian Typing. The remainder is funded by the local authorities and – in most municipalities – also through municipal contributions. Efforts are significant in most layers. If the VAT refund deviates significantly from what they have actually paid, it creates major economic challenges for the layers. Efforts must then be directed towards covering expenditure that was expected to be reimbursed by the State, an effort that should be directed towards activities for children and young people. Our basic position is that voluntary action should be rewarded. In this year's budget, according to a question asked by the Labour Party to the government in connection with the State budget, some 42 million were put in. NOK too little in the scheme if the sports laws are to expect full compensation. We believe that it may not be such that the scheme makes it very random what amounts can be expected to be recovered, when VAT is to be refunded in connection with large sports facilities that are built up. That is why we support the intention of proposal 1 in this proposal for a representative, which has been promoted by the Central Party. However, in order to ensure that there is some control of the scope, we believe that this should apply to facilities that have received funds. That is why I take the opportunity to address the Workers' Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2332	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2335	In Trom's sports circuit, 866 annual works are put down in voluntary effort, which has a value for the sports circuit of over 410 million. kr. If you transfer this on a national basis, it's 27,600 volunteer jobs, and it's equivalent to a value of what's worked out in sports, over 13 billion. kr. Nevertheless, volunteering and the spirit of hard work are within a negative spiral. It's harder now than it's been before to make people stand still, and there's a noticeable difference between those who live in the city, and those who live in the districts, when it comes to getting this done. It's much easier, it's said, to have a heart for the sport for us living in the village. It's easier to distance yourself when you live in the city. This is a trend that we see especially in cities and big cities, and that also infects on the will to take on duties, and not just on the spirit of hard work. Many sports circles say that at annual meetings they get a number of telephones from different sports teams that find no leaders. They don't find anyone who wants to set up the sports team. Another trend is that many people pay off their hard work. This is sin, and that's not what we want. This is a country that is just saying that the spirit of hard work is high. Too few jobs! – that's not the slogan we want. We want a bigger spirit of virtue. Therefore, this added-value compensation scheme for sports facilities is a scheme that has proved to be good and works as intended, so we have to continue working on this. There is evidence that it has become easier for the target group to take responsibility for the construction of plants itself, as we see from the massive increase in eligible plants in recent years. It is a good arrangement for users themselves to take responsibility for the construction and operation of the facilities. It gives a cohesion and an commitment that also creates something beyond the sporting activity. Experience has shown that, in addition, good coordination is created to take care of the facilities. It's a good economy in that construction in this direction also triggers good effort, and that's exactly what we want. It reduces costs and provides more favourable calculations for the state, the municipalities and the builders, which are the sports laws. In many cases, the option would be for municipalities to build the facilities without the same ability to reduce costs, which would trigger full compensation for VAT and thus an increased cost to the country. Now I read in the case papers that the Workers' Party is against this, against the intention to make the scheme introduced in 2010, as predictable as possible for teams and associations. But everyone should be interested that predictability is great in this matter, so it is gratifying that the cooperation parties – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – got a huge increase, to over 100 million. kr, in the 2015 budget. It is difficult to predict the need year after year, but predictability is important. Such an increase in the framework will provide a good basis for compensation in the years to come, I predict. We have to do this. We have to stick together about this. The proposers will also extend the scheme to the maintenance of installations. Since the compensation for VAT for maintenance has already been ensured in other schemes, the Progress Party considers that it is important to maintain this scheme as it is and for the purpose it is intended to do so. Local sports and dolls need a predictability of reimbursement of VAT when they spend a lot of time on their own. That's the least we can give.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2352	When it came to the 100 million we were able to get in in the cooperation parties, Ib Thomsen forgot to mention his own party, the Progress Party, because they were also in it. It shall allow the representative Ib Thomsen to do so. Otherwise I think Ib Thomsen has talked a lot about this with good and good spirit in a way that allows me to sign everything. This is part of our culture. I think it's actually Norway and the United States that tops the list of countries in the world where hard work has been most firmly anchored in history and culture. However, changes have also occurred in Norway in this area. Unfortunately, today we are much more involved in teams and associations – into volunteering – with a question about what it is in this for me. This has probably done something about the spirit of hard work, which means that volunteering – teams and associations – needs good, predictable frameworks around their work, including in terms of VAT compensation. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Central Party who have promoted this important proposal. It is an important proposal that is being promoted, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that it seems that together we can make an impact on the most important proposal, which is about going from the framework to the regulatory system. There are three proposals that are being promoted. I'll start from behind. Proposal 3 asks the Government to ‘precise the local government’s legislation on the deduction of value added tax on sports facilities so that contributions and/or contributions from non-governmental organisations are not regarded as remuneration’. The Christian People's Party has chosen not to support this on the basis of an assessment that hard work is initially free work, and that it seems a bit challenging to involve financial calculations in this context. It's about the fact that hard work must be allowed to be done, and I also want to refer to the answer that the Minister of Culture gives at this point, and that the Christian People's Party agrees with. In the case of proposal 2, the Christian People's Party has chosen to promote it. It is the proposal relating to the maintenance of sports facilities in the added value compensation scheme. We see that the majority, and the Minister of Culture, indicate that compensation for VAT for maintenance has already been provided in other schemes. But we still want to promote the proposal to see if this can contribute to strengthening voluntary activity. So are there other and better ways to view this? Perhaps this proposal can help to strengthen voluntary activity. That's why we've chosen to promote the proposal, and we'll see if we can get a majority in favour of it, and see if the Minister of Culture can get back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way and explain this point. So to the first point, which is about making the added-value compensation scheme for sports facilities regulated to ensure full reimbursement for approved projects. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Centre Party is taking this up, and we fully agree with the proposers in their intentions. We also think that regulation is the way to go. That is why we are very pleased that the majority of people today are making proposals in which we ask the government to assess whether the scheme can be made more predictable, including a change from a framework-driven to a regulatory regime. The majority ask the government to return to Stortinget, at the latest in connection with the 2016 government budget. The Christian People's Party is very much looking forward to the government's proposal, and we regard this as an important breakthrough both for the Central Party and for the Christian People's Party in this matter. I refer to the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote - proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2369	The representative Geir Bekkevold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2372	Every year important and long-term artificial grass courts, ski resorts, sports halls and other sports facilities are realised, thanks to an important and substantial effort by sports teams and non-governmental organisations. In contrast to municipalities and commercial private activities, sports laws do not have exemption from VAT, nor can they deduct VAT. This means that they have had and have a cost disadvantage compared to investments made by municipalities, i.e. the public sector, and private business. The VAT compensation scheme established in 2010 has worked well. It has worked well in the sense that it helps to cover the cost disadvantages of the sports laws when they build facilities, but it is clear that when the pot and the frame become too small and you have to cut short, you also create a feeling in the layers that they are being penalised financially. An underfunded framework scheme will be perceived as unfair and arbitrary for those who are actually making a great effort to build installations. It is precisely to avoid such uncertainty and to ensure non-governmental organisations the same conditions as local and private developers that the Centre Party chose to promote this Document 8. I must say that I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus on the intention behind the proposal. I feel that the whole committee supports the desire to create more predictability of the sports as builders, and it is positive when the Committee points out that in many cases the option would have been for municipalities to build the facilities, without the same possibility of being cost-reducing, which would in turn have triggered full compensation for VAT and thus an increased cost to the State. It is important that the majority also have a positive attitude to move forward with such a scheme. The centre party believes it is important when the layers here actually do a job on behalf of society that is also cost-reducing and cost-saving both for municipalities and for the state itself. The central party will therefore support both the Labour Party and the Government's proposals. We don't see any contradiction between them. There is nothing to prevent a person today from deciding to move to a regulated system. The fact that one has to wait with the matter because it's a budgetary matter is a question I think one experiences in many cases that are dealt with in this room, and if the will is great enough, there's nothing wrong with going into a regulatory arrangement here and now. At the same time, however, the Central Party is concerned that there must be a clear majority in favour of something that could be a better arrangement than the present system, and if the Labour Party's proposal does not get a majority, we will also support the vote, because we believe it is quite possible to come back to the harvest as well – and the government should do so absolutely. I have to say that when government parties go so far as to support the intentions behind the proposal as they are doing today, it is a great responsibility for them to follow it up in the harvest budget. For there are expectations out in Sport Norway about how this scheme will be in the future, and there is a expectation that the government will have to meet in the budget of the harvest. I have also noticed that the majority does not see the need to investigate a proposal for VAT compensation related to maintenance, given that they believe that today's legislation ensures it in a good enough way – I have noticed it. The centre party will nevertheless support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, and we do so because we believe that it would have been useful and sensible to review that question – because that's what it is about, the proposal is about solving that question – and also see if there might be something extra to pick up by introducing it into such a regulated system. But the centre party is well pleased with the consideration in the committee, we are well pleased with the good intentions of the other parties in this matter. We calculate – what to say – the case that partly won, and we have noticed the expectations that one of these sails contributes to rebuilding, out among teams and associations in terms of the type of VAT compensation scheme you will have in the future, and we expect the government to feel obliged to meet just those expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2393	Sports facilities are essential for creating sport activity in the communities of Norway. That is why the government has allocated a historically high amount for the construction and rehabilitation of sports facilities in the year’s distribution of sports equipment. Over 1 billion. kr is this year distributed for this purpose. The construction and rehabilitation of sports facilities represents a major economic boost for many sports and associations. A new VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities was therefore established in 2010. The purpose of the scheme is to facilitate the financing of civil engineering investments under the direction of local sport in Norway. Since the introduction of the scheme, sports teams and associations have received 277 million. kr in compensation. Artificial grass tracks, loops, ski facilities, clubhouses and shooting facilities are only some of the types of plant that have received funds through the scheme. The compensation scheme has been very well received, and the large increase in the amount of applications shows that it meets a great need. The scheme has provided significant relief in the financing of civil engineering investments. This has strengthened the ability of local teams and associations to build sports facilities. At the same time, sports teams and associations may receive compensation for the value added tax on operating and maintenance costs associated with installations through the ordinary compensation scheme for non-profit organisations, provided that the installation is not rented to external actors. Except in 2012, where it was 10 pst. curtailment, approved applicants have obtained full annual acceptance of their application amounts. I would like to remind you that in 2010, the government of Stoltenberg II chose to introduce the compensation scheme as a framework scheme. I Prop. 125 S for 2009–2010 Additional appropriations and re-priorities in the 2010 government budget included:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘A new framework system for the compensation of VAT for the construction of sports facilities is proposed.’ In addition, it says: ‘It is proposed that the scheme be application-based and that the compensation be granted within the limits granted by the size of the scheme for each year.’;» In line with this, a framework system for the compensation of VAT was established for the construction of sports facilities. If the annual appropriations do not reach full compensation, the percentage reduction will be equal to that of all approved applicants. In 2014, we experienced a significant application growth, with a total approved application amount of 113.8 million. kr. The increase in the amount of applications reflects a positive growth in activity and a strong willingness to invest in sports facilities. In order to meet the increased need for funds in the scheme, we managed to achieve an additional allocation of 48.9 million in the new phase of the State budget for 2014. kr. This helped to ensure that all approved applicants were granted their applications in full. The additional appropriations show that the government prioritises the scheme and that we want to ensure good and predictable framework conditions for sports and sports associations building sports facilities. Through the government's budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, it's set at 100 million. kr in 2015. The deadline for applying for the year was 4 May. 452 applications have been received, with a total application amount of about 192 million. kr. This is an increase in the number of applications of 55 pst. and an increase in the total application amount of 69 pst. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is an untreated application number. The total approved application amount will not be ready until the Lottery and the Foundation have completed the application procedure. This shows that there is a great need for funding under this scheme and that sport builds many and large facilities. The amount of the provisional application amount is much higher than that foreseen by the Ministry. Therefore, we will now review the entire application procedure in order to find a way in which a long-term overview of what can be expected of applications is available. The compensation scheme has been a major success in the years it has existed. Combined with the increase in the use of sports facilities, the scheme helps to create better conditions for site development under the direction of the locality. For me, it is a high priority to work to ensure that the scheme will also provide a good and predictable framework for local sports teams and associations that build sports facilities in the future. I see that the committee in the vote recommends that the government assess whether the scheme can be made more predictable, including the possibility of introducing a regulatory regime. Of course, I will follow up such a decision, and the government will report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner on how this will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2433	This matter concerns several matters concerning VAT compensation, and in the letter of reply sent by the Council of State to the Committee, the Council of State states: ‘The purpose of rescinding the right to compensation for the rental of immovable property is to prevent municipalities from obtaining a competitive advantage against private landlords. It is not right to describe it as a financial penalty for a municipal landlord to be treated in the same way as a private person.’ Then my question to the Council of State is: is this true of all the municipal buildings operating in the area for which the Council of State is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2443	I'm assuming it's related to point number. 3 of this proposal, to which reference has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2448	Item No 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2453	Under the Bondevik II Government, to which reference has also been made, a general VAT compensation scheme was introduced for the municipal sector from 1 January 2004. Initially, municipalities are compensated for this levy on the acquisition of all goods and services for use in the indemnification business. And the purpose, as many people have had, is to counteract the fact that VAT provides municipalities with economic motivation to provide tax-paying services themselves, rather than to buy services from private operators. It has been important for us to ensure that there is no system that is in direct competition with private individuals, and that is the basis for us to believe that no change should be made to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2458	I believe that the answer given by the Minister of Culture is a rather general answer, so I want to repeat my question. I did not fully grasp what the Minister of Culture really meant in the answer she gave now. Is this applicable in all areas within the responsibility of the Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2463	This case concerns acquisitions of buildings and structures and other real estate for sale or rental, cf. the compensation law it covers. That's the basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2468	There are several lines, so I would like to thank the Council of State for giving an overview of how the application entry was this year. That was an interesting number. And in a letter of reply we received in connection with the state budget, the Ministry of Culture said: ‘The Ministry of Culture considers it reasonable to believe that in 2015 the amount of the application will not be lower than the amount of the application in 2014.’ It turns out that the Minister of Culture is probably right. There will probably be some requests that fall away, I suppose. But can we expect sports teams to get a faster response to what the economy is going to be like, as the revised national budget is right around the corner, so that you don't wait until just beyond Christmas to know if you get the full amount of VAT refunded?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2478	The representative of Aasrud knows how to prepare the various budgets, both in terms of the revised national budget and in terms of the usual budgets for the coming year. So in terms of what had to be revised, the representative still has to live under stress. What is important here is that there has been a record increase in the number of applications, and not least in the amount. There has been an increase in the number of applications of 55 pst., which was almost impossible to predict. There has also been an increase in the total application amount of 69 pst. – that’s an incredible amount – up to 192 million. kr. It can be caused by a lot of things. This may be due to a cost increase in installations. It can also be because it's created an expectation, as a result of it being granted 100 pst. coverage in recent years – at least in the budgets for which we have been responsible. This may explain that more applications are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2485	First of all, thank you to the Minister of Culture for a good contribution, which has also helped to create quite high expectations of what the government will come to the Grand Duchy with in the 2016 budget. So to the interesting information that the Minister of Culture provided when it came to this huge increase in the number of applications for VAT compensation, which together amounts to 192 million. kr. Of course, you can approach it in a little bit of different ways, but I have to say that it's amazing that there's so much activity out there, and that the volunteer has caught the signal, because that was an important signal you gave in a newly aged budget last year, where we together allocated 100 million. Extra kroner. It's created expectations. My question to the Minister of Culture is: When the number of applications is as large as it is now, is it an argument for just going from a framework system to a regulatory system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2494	I think it's a principle approach to consider whether to have a regulatory regime or a framework regime. There is also another system of VAT compensation applicable to teams and associations, where funds can be applied for, among others. maintenance and other types of activity. But one can then ask a fundamental question: why do you have to have a regulated system for sports facilities, but do not have the opportunity to do so in terms of VAT compensation on other schemes? So having a principle approach to it is one way to approach the problems. I'm happy with the decision that seems to get a majority in this room today, and then we're going to try to figure out how to create more predictability, because these numbers testify that there's a lot of activity. It's very positive. There are many sports facilities being built, to tens of thousands of children and young people, which are given the opportunity to fasten in various types of activities. It's very positive. Then we're going to work on finding a more predictable way to approach this, and then we're going to report this back to the Stortinge in connection with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2501	You can choose to look at it both in principle and in practice, but the large number of applications is probably also an expression of the need. It may also be an expression of the large willingness there to participate in the realisation of installations. It may also be a signal that municipalities rely more heavily on the organisations and the sport of seas to build, because it works better and may also be cost-reducing, on which the Maritime Committee has been involved. So it could be positive. But it requires a certain predictability. In the case of the principle arguments relating to the framework rule or the rule of law, one basic argument for a regulated system is that VAT compensation was intended to eliminate a bias, a distortion between municipalities, which does not pay VAT, and private commercial ones, which have a deduction of VAT. The principle argument is perhaps one of the arguments for now as the next step to move from the framework to the rule rule rule. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2509	I think it's important that we now have the opportunity to look at this, look at the fundamental arguments that can underlie changing the system, if you conclude, but at least look at what you can do to help you get more predictability. I fully agree with all those who have expressed that this testifies that there is a great activity out there. It is a desired activity that we want even more installations to come. I also agree with Marit Arnstad, who says that it may well be that the municipalities have left e.g.. more of the construction of sports facilities, which have resulted in a larger increase. A big expectation because we've fulfilled 100 pst. the recovery of costs may also have resulted in more than one person having contacted and submitted an application under this scheme. It may also be that the cost increase in installations, as I said, has contributed to this. I have not been given a full overview of the exact amounts, but I have registered that some plants take half of the funds. Among the applications, 40 are applying for more than 1 million. kr in compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2516	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2521	The representative Ib Thomsen made me have to take the floor again. I would recommend at least that Thomsen read through what is in the matter when he talks about who provides predictability. If the representative Ib Thomsen is so concerned with the predictability that he expressed in his statement, I would recommend that he vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, because it will ensure the sports the predictability that Thomsen talked about, and not go the way of an assessment, which is the proposal that Thomsen himself is behind. As far as the various proposals are concerned, I only need to comment on the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which are, to a large extent, all right, but the Labour Party believes that the system that the Christian People's Party is asking for is a system that is already covered by the general system of VAT compensation established for voluntary teams and associations, and we believe that the system belongs there. That's why we're not going to support it now. If you were to have a review, you would need a pretty big review of the entire scheme and perhaps a review of what types of teams and associations are included in that scheme. But there will be something quite different than just taking a little tab of it all. Then we are glad that the committee here is moving towards what is our proposal. That is why, of course, we will also ensure that we vote in a subsidiary way for what is the proposals of the Government Parties and the Committee majority here in the Chamber today, but we believe that we do not really need a new investigation of this. The system should be made predictable, and when we add in addition that there is a framework around this that relates to you having been given funds, we also believe that there is an upper framework attached to the appropriations that had to come into a regulatory arrangement. Then there might be a lot of explanations why we're getting a record and a record candidate base this year. This may be because we have increased the share of sports in gambling. This means that a larger proportion goes to gambling, and when Norsk Typing also delivers record profits, more people can be involved and share the money that comes through the profits. We're just going to hope that there's a situation that will continue. That money benefits a lot of good activity, and that is one of the reasons why we believe that Norwegian Typing is an important player in voluntary Norway, and we will continue to work for them to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2532	After all, in a debate in which we agree with our intentions and could perhaps relate to it, rhetoric becomes a bit tempting. I find it fascinating to see which representatives are now so eager that this must be rule-driven. Yes, they are the ones who put it in place as a framework regime – but we forgive them, of course. To Rigmor Aasrud, who talks about the transfers from Norwegian Typing: Yes, it's going to be exciting to see how this develops, because what's now happening with transfers, will give a countdown to this in the future. There are projects that need to be realised and are to be applied when they are completed. And that's exactly with and emphasizes the unpredictability of this. I expect those who introduced this as a framework system did so because they set up budgets and saw how challenging it is with open posts. So we're going to work actively to find good predictable arrangements. We promise to follow up also from the government parties. Then I just want to underline what others have been into. I think many of us have been so close to this, either in local politics or in organisational life, that we know that when teams and associations build construction, there's a good social bill in it. There is no doubt that there will be a different participation in efforts and contributions, and a cost-effectiveness which, for a variety of reasons, will not be able to achieve when the public builds itself – and thus also lower VAT refund than if the public had done so. So this is the good math around. So finally, I have been made aware that in case of an incursion, there is a mistake in the proposal for a decision under I. It says that the Storting will be the government, but we will be the government. So I ask that is what we vote for at the end of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2543	Predictability was within my first post, and that's what I still stand for is important for sport. It's a pleasure that you now have a big candidate mass that generates across the country, and not just in the big cities. On 7 March 2013 was a big day in Stortinget, because then we dealt with the sports message. And then the Progress Party made a lot of good suggestions – something like Rigmor Aasrud, from the Workers' Party, has been around now, and that many others have been about. But we didn't get that many votes in 2013. I see that from the vote it was one from the Labour Party and one from the Right – the rest was against. Those who were one from the Right and one from the Workers' Party, were probably a wrong vote, I'm afraid. But we're re-examined. We continue to work on this, and we still believe that there should be predictability of sport and volunteering. But we said at the time: the consequences of a strained relationship in the clubs are like trustees reporting passports, and that you get a high turnover among trust leaders and a recruitment problem in the clubs. What we also said was that this goes beyond the activity, and usually means reduced activity. We believe that the overall situation has now become so challenging that it becomes far more than a sport and club challenge; this is a societal challenge. It represents a major input for good growth conditions, local meeting places, physical activity, events, well-being and housing. In other words, reduced efforts in the clubs push the tasks – and the bills – up in the municipalities and to the public. That is why I stand for what I have said all along, and I hope that the Workers' Party will also bring it this time: we are working on this in the long term, and we are predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2552	The article from Ib Thomsen raises a question: why do you not vote in favour of the proposal now in the Chamber? Or is it that if the government doesn't come back with a rule-abiding system, then Ib Thomsen has lost the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2557	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2571	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2585	No one has asked for the floor. There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2593	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2601	During the debate, Mr Asphjell put forward three proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide information on how general arms can affect the police’s response.’ The voting boards showed that there were 60 votes in favour and 35 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.10.24]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2615	We have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2627	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case which clarifies that general weapons in the police are not to take place and where the general rules on the armed use of the police are included in the Police Act.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the experience of advanced storage.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2658	The left has announced that they vote for you subsidiaryly. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2678	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2704	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2914	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e2924	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3239	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3249	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3349	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3359	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3400	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3410	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3432	During the debate, Kari Henriksen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3517	During the debate, Mr Tajik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back in an appropriate manner with a clarification of the delimitation of the responsibilities of different public and private actors in the field of mobile security.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the responsibilities and working methods of, inter alia, PST, NSM and NKOM are appropriate to identify any grey areas between services as new technological opportunities to pose a safety risk arise.’; The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3553	In Case No: 11 and 12 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3623	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3633	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3641	During the debate, Martin Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to a reinforced effort for research and dissemination on the Second World War in the North, including an assessment of whether the establishment of a professorate may be part of such a commitment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3668	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3676	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to examine the proposal to include expenditure related to the maintenance of sports facilities in the VAT compensation scheme and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3701	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to change the VAT compensation scheme for sports facilities, in order to change the scheme from a framework scheme to a regulatory regime, which ensures full reimbursement of projects approved by the game.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3725	In the course of the debate, the rapporteur has corrected an incurrency. It shall read: ‘The government asks...’ All parties have notified that they are in favour of or subsidiary to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3757	Case No. 17 and 18 are the second processing of laws and apply to legislative acts 62 and 63. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-05.ana.ud2042e3831	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
