ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e35	Honourable co-representatives! It was with sorrow that we received the message that Alv Jakob Fostervoll is dead, 83 years old. A rough figure in Norwegian politics has gone away. Alv Jakob Fostervoll was active in the policy of youth. It was in his labor movement's strong commitment came to his right. He was chairman, as it was at the time, in the Nordic countries Arbeiderlag from 1961 to 1969 and in the Nordmøre Arbeiderparti from 1965 to 1969. From 1959 to 1967 he was a member of the Kristiansund Presidency. He was then appointed rapporteur in Kristiansund from 1967 to 1969. At the same time he was also a member of the Moor and Romsdal county. In 1969, Alv Jakob Fostervoll was elected to the Stortinget. He was the great representative of More and Romesdal until 1977. At Stortinget he was in the Financial Committee and in the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee, where he was also head of the Committee. Everyone who knew Alv Jakob Fostervoll describes him as a politician. It is through his work in the field of defence and foreign policy that we know him best, first and foremost as Minister of Defence in both Trygve Bratteli's governments. In 1975, under the direction of Alv Jakob Fostervoll, Norway made a historic choice, when the choice of acquisition of new fighter aircraft fell on F-16. He encouraged and contributed to the strengthening of transatlantic security cooperation. Alv Jakob Fostervoll was an outlaw and a protective officer. His professional competence was also used as a member and leader of various selections and as the author of several defence and security policy books. At the same time, he was a forward-looking politician, working for business and development. He was a knowledgeable man, who willingly shared his competence with others, to great joy and benefit for party traps and everyone else. Alv Jakob Fostervoll was highly respected also by political opponents. He had his own ability to see the best in everyone and always had a look for the weak in society. After the policy he was in More and Romesdal for the whole of 25 years, from 1977 to 2002. There he got difficult things through in a mild way. As a good combination of official and politician, he is described as a master in finding good compromises. By Alv Jakob Fostervoll's many honours can be mentioned as Commander of the Order of St. Olav, Commander of the Order of Dannebrog and Commander of the Order of the Belgian Crown. Alv Jakob Fostervoll was a committed local patriot, but with a glance at the big lines. When he came back after being a big-time representative and a government councillor, he went back in as an active party member locally. He meant a lot to the region, to Kristiansund and to the local party. We thank Mr Fostervoll for the great effort he has made for the Workers' Party, for the House and for the country as a whole. We bring peace to Alv Jakob Fostervoll's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e61	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Nordic counties: Greta Johanne Solfall For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen For the South-Trundellag County: Audun Otterstad. There is an application from the Left-wing Group for the extension to 22 October of the permit granted to the representative of Abid Q. Raja. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Siri Engesetth, continues to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e105	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e121	At the municipal government elections in the fall, polling was just below or at 60 pst. 2nd time since 1922. This means that in most Norwegian municipalities, the largest party, with 40 pst, is those who do not use their voting rights. The turnout this year was 60 pst. to the local government election, and at the county elections she was even worse, with 55.9 pst. Everyone who is busy with our democracy should reflect a little on this trend. That's why I initially thought that a debate like this could be a nice venue to both reflect a little bit and to address the issue here in Stortinget. Punishing our democracy is a responsibility that we all have. We are elected, but most people also, in my view, have a responsibility to use their voting rights. Our primary responsibility is to ensure that we have an electoral system that makes it possible to carry out the elections in an easy way, plus that we stimulate and encourage people to use their voting rights. Then it's the responsibility of most people to use their voting rights – it can never be the responsibility of others than most people. It's not a target of 100 pst. shall use its voting rights, but it is an important objective that it is not the same as each time, options by choice, that it does not use its voting rights. A falling voter take is unfortunately a long trend that has existed for many decades. In 1963 – otherwise, the year many of today’s municipalities were established – the election ceremony was top, with 81 pst. by the local government election. Maybe the municipal reform at the time played a role, but it's a long way from the top year with 81 pst. to 60 pst. This year, and it has been largely the same development all the way. Uniformly, the selection selection selection is higher in national Parliaments than in local elections. This trend is evident both here in Norway and in Europe. Elections in local government and county elections have always been lower than in landfills. The county elections, which have the shortest history, also have the lowest polling. Choices started in 1975, and they are held at the same time as local government options. When comparing the selection process between local, county and national elections, we also have to consider that there are different rules for those who have voting rights. In general elections, only Norwegian citizens have the right to vote, but in municipal and county elections, foreign citizens residing in Norway have the right to vote for at least three years plus Nordic citizens residing in Norway. In the 2015 local elections, this group constituted, for example: about 8 pst. of the votes cast. Based on data collected in the EU during the period 2004–08, Norway is in the middle of Europe. In Belgium, where voting is mandatory, one also has the highest turnout, with 90 pst. Sweden, which is a country it's natural to compare us with, is also taller than us with almost 80 pst. At the bottom of this list is the United Kingdom, Portugal and Lithuania, with a population of about 40. It should also be noted that Sweden maintains local elections at the same time as elections to the national Parliament. In Denmark, which implements the selection in much the same way as in Norway, they still had 7 pst in the last local choice. higher than in Norway. An action that can also be assessed and which we should discuss is whether to do as in Sweden and have a common election day in Norway. That debate is the Progress Party interested in taking, and we note that also local politicians through the Municipal Report are calling for a debate to take place. Had one done so, one of the parties could show the wholeness at the same time on all three levels, and we could also be more efficient with the resources of the community, as one common choice would halve the costs of having options every other year. The argument against thinking this is that national politicians will take too much of the focus in the municipal election campaign. But everyone who followed the election campaign this time sees that it was probably also the situation now – with their own election day for the local government election, the national politicians take a big place. An argument against thinking in that direction is that with one common election day every four years, someone will be almost 22 years before they take part in their first election – if we keep to the 18-year-old limit by choice. Just as with the first-time voters, I'm concerned, and I think it's a lot of concern that the statistics on electoral selection are lower for that group than for the people else. On Thursday, I was so lucky to have visited the newly elected chairman of Mandal, Alf Erik Andersen, who brought with him five active young people who told of their experience that 16- and 17-year-olds in that municipality were allowed to vote at the municipal election of this cottage. I'm looking forward to the Ministry of Local Affairs evaluating the experiment they've had Mandal and 19 other municipalities run this year, and I think we should be open to any possible input to increase polling and commitment. I am myself from a municipality that was in this attempt, and I am very happy that in Austevoll voted 70 pst. of the 16- and 17-year-olds this year. It shows that having such attempts and increasing the focus on engaging young people can produce good results. I don't think the main reason why many of the municipalities that have been involved in the experiment have good results in electoral selection, is that they get involved, but that the experiment itself has made the municipalities work smarter to engage young people. There are experiences that I hope the evaluation work will also take with me further, so that other municipalities can learn how to get more involved with young people. Another measure that might be discussed when it comes to increasing selection selection is electronic selection. Here it has been tried before, but not this time. For many, this is something that will be requested, it should be easier to take part in the selection. Even though a lot of people like to do it politely and visit the selection room, this is something we should consider and think about – whether an electronic choice should be introduced in Norway as well. Finally, we politicians also have a great responsibility for the voters to feel that it means something to vote. In a lot of municipalities in Norway, there's a lot of consensus activity. That means that the voters ask themselves if it's wise to vote for different parties, because they stand out as very similar, and there's a very consensus-based local government that makes it a small difference to who a vote is, because things are quite similar. We also have the second endpoint in Norwegian municipalities. Perhaps we saw it best yesterday, for those who followed the constitution in Alta municipality – or it is better to say the lack of constitution. You can also ask questions about whether it means what you're voting on, when you're going to vote on a party to get a spokesman from that party, and then you choose a representative who, at the constituent meeting, actively wants to have a spokesperson from the Workers' Party. Then I understand very well that the voters ask the question whether it has anything to say about who a vote is, when the politicians themselves act in such a way that the influence of the voters is almost eliminated. Fortunately, not many municipalities have examples like this, but we have to be very careful not to allow political disdain to become too big if the voters are left and feel that it doesn't matter who a vote on. I believe it is important for the voters to have an influence on the composition of their local government. We know that in 2003 it was the end of the possibility of deleting candidates. There is a form of expressing who wants to be in the local government, which many voters appreciate. Now there's only one way to give cumulation and extra crosses. But we may want to let the voters in the future have a greater influence on how they put together their local government. In many larger municipalities one has now cumulated a lot of candidates, and in that way it is largely the parties and not the people who decide who is to sit in city government and municipal government. We may want to look at that rule again, in order to give the voters even more influence on their personal appointment, rather than to make the nomination meeting of the parties as much as they do, by pre-cumulating a lot of people who are elected to city councils and local councils. This debate today, which I hope will be good, I am taking an initiative not to find some simple solutions, but to address some issues that could be discussed. I think it's important that the Stortinget, with the election result we saw, takes an open and free debate on electoral roll, and I hope that the people through it also sees that we, like the highest people in Norway, are occupied with electoral and democracy. That's why I'm asking the Council of State a few questions about what the Ministry of Local Affairs, as the right Ministry, will do to counteract that trend and increase electoral attendance in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e159	I will first take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing an important and topical theme, which it is natural to travel after the election. It is easy to forget and take for granted how privileged we are in Norway. Many people elsewhere in the world are fighting to achieve the same rights, and some are sacrificing their own lives in the fight for democracy and human rights. In Norway, we have a well-developed democracy both locally and nationally, but democracy must be used and developed. Election participation is important, but it is important to remember that local democracy is more than election and election day. We all agree that 60 pst. electoral participation in the municipal elections of the year and 55,9 p.m. electoral participation in county elections is low. But it is still the case that we look at developments from 1993 to today, we have to say that participation in Norwegian elections has been at a reasonably stable level, with some variations. After World War II, 1963 is the highest electoral year in local elections with a total of 81 pst. It was a special year because, among other things, had been mobilised in connection with the political crisis surrounding the accident in Kings Bay at Svalbard. Since 1963, we have had a decline in and subsequent stabilisation of the turnout. The extension of the right to vote may have contributed to the decline in the turnout. In 1967, the 20-year-olds gained voting rights and in 1978 the 18-year-olds gained voting rights. In 1983 voters with a migrant background were also given the right to vote in local elections. Several studies have been carried out by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to show that there are many factors affecting the electoral participation. Following the 2011 election, the Institute for Social Research carried out analyses of what can explain participation in elections. The most important are characteristics of individuals, such as age, gender, country background and education. Aspects such as availability of the polling facilities and characteristics of the municipalities are of less importance for the electoral participation. It's e.g. not important if a municipality is large or small, whether it has two election days or many parties. But that's of course, and fortunately, other conditions that affect the turnout. The analysis also pointed out that in some municipalities we can have high electoral participation even if the population composition was to indicate low participation. Things that engage, we also know how to mobilize. There are large differences in the turnout between municipalities. The municipality with the highest vote in the municipal election was Utsira with 84.3 pst., while the lowest was in Hammerfest with 50.2 pst. We have no voting obligations in Norway, and it is allowed to choose not to vote. So at this year's election, there were four out of ten people who chose to let others decide for different reasons. Back to the interpellant’s questions about what should be done to reverse the negative trend and increase electoral participation. I don't think there's one phase in how we can increase the turnout. I have registered the interest to combine local elections with national elections in a single election day. Of course, there are arguments for such a solution. A single election day could increase the turnout in local elections. But I don't think that's the way to go. One consequence of elections every four years is that many first-time voters will only be able to vote when they are 21 years old. Local democracy and local policy interests are best seen when the elections are held at different times. If the elections are held at the same time, local issues and local candidates will receive less attention. Local selection will take effect in the background. Efforts are being made to improve the choice implementation and availability of voters. There is hardly any other country that has as good voice availability as we have in Norway. Regular attempts are being made at measures or schemes that might increase the turnout. Examples of this are previous attempts by directly elected rapporteur, own election day in Nittedal, Internet vote and reduced voting age to 16 years. All of these trials have been or will be evaluated. The continuation of these measures is ultimately a political decision. But what we can say is that these attempts have little effect on the positive direction of turnout. In addition, something new was implemented at the time of the election this year, in the Norwegian context. Researchers at the Institute for Social Research, in cooperation with the Department, tested several measures to see whether they had an impact on the electoral process. There were measures such as different texts on election cards, the use of text messages to encourage votes and letters to different immigrant groups. The main findings of these trials will be published in the spring of 2016. In the ministry and municipalities, there is a lot of resources to inform voters about who has the right to vote and where and when you can vote. It is assumed that this type of information may have an impact on the turnout. The Ministry also has a grant scheme where organisations wishing to implement good measures to inform about the choice or increase the turnout may apply for funds. This year, 27 organisations received a total of 5 million. kr. Local and national authorities may facilitate, but at the end of the day, the content of the policy and the parties and the ability of candidates to engage and mobilise are important for whether voters vote or not. The voters must feel that voting makes a difference. It is the political parties and the local groups that must mobilise the local population to vote, not least to make the political content known. The media also have an important role to play here, and we see that the media make a significant contribution – especially to local media. But we, who represent the different parties, obviously have to ask questions about whether we can do more to inform, to create dialogue and to show that it means something to use the voting rights. When it comes to opening up democracy, I feel that development is positive. The 2013 Storing Election Survey points to an increase in policy participation other than elections, particularly among young people. It is also an increase in membership of political youth parties. Many of today’s young people are politically active, although they may not use the word ‘policy’ for what they are doing. Already in 2006, the Local Democratic Commission showed that we have had a new political participation pattern in Norway. People are more active between choices. This happens, among other things: through direct political engagement, such as participation in demonstrations, protest meetings and signature campaigns. The population also makes more frequent contact with local politicians. Then I'm into the central rationale of local democracy. There shall be closeness between those who take the decisions and the inhabitants. There shall be room for local variation and solutions. Through the community reform, we provide an increased room for action for local democracy. State detail management can be reduced, more tasks can be transferred to municipalities, and the scope of intermunicipal solutions can be reduced – more power can be local. How good local democracy is can not only be measured by the number of votes in local elections. It is also about how well the municipalities facilitate living local democracy between the elections. We have seen a clear development in which municipalities are more likely to encourage citizens to be heard in municipal decision-making processes. For example, most municipalities have: Youth councils, some municipalities have established contact committees for immigrants, and the majority of municipalities have contact committees for non-governmental organisations. User surveys, ideas where citizens are invited to participate, and other venues where the municipality meets residents and representatives of local interest groups are common. Nevertheless, community studies show that municipalities can become even better at developing interaction with citizens. Municipalities should give priority to the work of integrating citizens. The Regional Development Competence Centre has developed a guide to help municipalities working with the community reform to facilitate a stronger local democracy. Through practical examples, relevant tools and tried and tested methods from municipalities working well with local democracy, the material should provide ideas and inspiration for a good democratic process in the municipalities. I've seen for myself how, for example. Fredrikstad involves and engages citizens in the development of e.g. park areas. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that the local authorities think about how they work. Do they make democracy relevant and invite them to participate from all groups in society? It's about the form of meetings and the organisation, about openness and involvement. It's important to get involved and excited. There is room for local democracy, although the state governance of the municipalities limits some areas. Local politicians must use this space. I believe that with stronger municipalities, municipalities can also improve their involvement in important decision-making processes. There can be more systematic development of schemes that place the population in the centre. We have a good starting point in Norway. We have a well-developed local democracy. But it is also important to look at the best-performing municipalities – both in elections and between elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e228	First I have to say that I agree with the Council of State that in Norway we are privileged. When we look around us in the world how in some other countries there is a lack of democracy, we in Norway are privileged to have a debate here in the Grand Duchy on electoral elections and only that, with regard to our democracy. I also agree with the Council of State that the parties and candidates have a great responsibility to make policy interesting and familiar, and that it means something to vote. The councils were in the media. In any case, in my home country, Hordaland, I experienced that local media and regional media in this municipal election took many steps in the right direction when it came to making local candidates more familiar and letting them play the leading role in the election campaign. NRK Hordaland conducted professional debates with all municipalities in Hordaland, and they may have done so elsewhere. In this way, they showed the local differences in a good way. Bergen's Official Journal, which covered all of Hordaland in addition to Sogn and Fjordane, had a new version on the Internet, where they challenge the inhabitants to ask questions about all candidates or list tops, through a "can you love" program that gave a dialogue in front of them that was very exciting and good. My impression is that the media is taking that role, and that they've been there to bring up the local populace in the local government elections that we've left behind. Then I'm not as concerned that a common election day would leave the locals in the shadow. I believe that there are such innovations, via the Internet and through local media coverage, which means that you can get very good coverage of the local issues, even at the same time you have a big choice. In fact, I think it would be easier for the parties to show a wholeness, and it would also be easier for the voters to decide on a wholeness when one has it at the same time, because then one would at least avoid choosing a local government that should align itself with a large majority of people who have been selected for two years – and vice versa. That debate, I think, should continue. Otherwise, it is quite right that the Council of State says that it has not shown any major change in the electoral process. Still, I think it's right that we have trials, and that we do things when it comes to initiative. It will be very exciting to follow the impact of the 16-year-old and 17-year-old pilot project to see if we get a new generation of first-time voters who continue to vote, because then the attempt has been closed in creating more democracy. I like to follow this further in the municipalities that have tried it twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e239	Let me again underline the importance of this debate. The fact that we are discussing reasons for low turnout, that we are discussing what we can do to bring up the turnout, is in itself positive, and it's about both using and developing local democracy. That is why I believe it is also right to carry out tests to see if it can contribute to higher turnout. But, as I said, the experiments that have been carried out so far have not shown that it in itself contributes to raising the turnout. There may be other reasons why they should be continued, but it has not had a significant impact on electoral participation. As regards the voting rights of 16-year-olds, the interpellant is aware that the government parties initially wanted the age of voting rights to follow the age of authority, but on the basis of our cooperation with the Left and Christian People’s Party – and then a direct question from Sveinung Rotevatn – we chose to continue that effort. And I agree that some of the interesting thing in that attempt is to follow the development of the municipalities that had the voting rights of 16-year-olds last time, and see how it has evolved when they do it twice, compared to those that have only done it once. That's why it's an interesting attempt. And then we also know a lot about the groups that don't vote, we know a lot about the people who are homeowners. The characteristics of many people at home are that they have low education and income, are less than 30 years old, have a minority background and are more often unmarried. This is important to be familiar with also for the political parties, to discuss whether one can do something special to get the vote up among those who choose to let others decide for themselves. Then again, I would like to stress the importance of the local government groups now discussing the form of work – how open are you, and how relevant are you? We know that our citizens in both small and large municipalities are very interested in the local road, in kindergarten, in road safety, in bicycle paths – there are demonstrations, there are meetings. It is our job, and it is the responsibility of local politicians, to show that it is relevant to local policy – and that is also relevant for using the right to vote when you come to elections. So my clear call to the local politicians who have now entered the municipal councils is to take this discussion now – not just go into the old forms of work, but now discuss how to open up to the local political involvement of the inhabitants, maybe move discussions and debates out of the municipal boardroom and out where people are, whether at school, kindergarten or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e252	I would also like to say that it is very nice that the representative Njåstad has taken this initiative. It's an important debate for the Biggest, because of course any democracy depends on the people's commitment. The question that inevitably arises in connection with this interpellation is: Why is electoral participation low? Of course, there are a lot of answers to that, but I don't want to say that I think one of the most important reasons is what I've experienced a lot of, over and over again, political life: the sentence "It's going well anyway." It is in many ways a good testimony to Norwegian democracy, namely that it is believed that the stability of Norwegian society is such that it is doing well in any case. Nevertheless, that is not the answer to the challenge, of course not. I believe that the policy itself is responsible for making itself relevant. And if I'm going to push – because I have to almost use that expression right now, "distant me" – to give an idea of why there's a lower turnout in local elections than in big shots, it's because you see that it's hard to get the differences in local politics. I think we have to say that, as I now say, and it is up to the political parties and our good colleagues in the municipalities to contribute to making municipal policy more political. I think it is important that we all encourage our colleagues in the municipalities to manage the policies of the municipalities more politically and to be clearer about the options. I feel absolutely sure that in many ways this is one of the most important answers to the question of the difference in the choice of capital and municipal elections and of the possibility that the voters will better perceive the differences in the municipalities. For many places, it is precisely to manage the attitude of the councillor that makes it difficult for the common choice – as it is called – to perceive the differences. I want to make it clear that this is not an authorised and final opinion from the Labour Party, I have to clarify it. But I'm going to use the last few minutes to comment on some concrete things that we can do anyway, and that's about the more structural questions associated with this. One is what has been affected: the electoral influence on the lists. I think that's of great importance. I myself sat in the electoral commission, the last large electoral commission, which proposed that deletions should be introduced even in the event of major elections. It rejected Stortinget. There is a question that I think it is necessary to travel again. I also see that there is a proposal for treatment that deals with the deletion of municipal elections, and that is also something we should reconsider, because we should be aware that it is such that the Storting has given the parties the formal right to stand for the nominations. It wasn't like that before, but it was done like this. The opposite, as the Electoral Commission in its time said, was that there should then be a greater electoral influence. The story would not, for its own sake, and I think that is a matter we should think about, and we should of course also think about it in the context of municipal elections. I personally – and now I have to say ‘I personally’, because this is a big discussion in the Workers’ Party – believe that we should have a common election day for municipal and wholesale elections. At least that's a very important discussion. The Council of State's argument that the first-time voters then get the opportunity to vote only when they are 22 years old is not burdensome enough in relation to all the other arguments that can be put in the margin of common election day, at my discretion. It will not get in the way of local policy involvement. Even today, we are already there that national politics dominates the municipal elections. The age limit for voting rights of 16 years needs to be looked at more closely. I am in no way opposed to the implementation of electronic choices, if it is possible to implement them. But if we don't manage to make secret choices – I've gone into this a lot – then it won't be possible to make them. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e271	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for an important inter-pellation – and the other speakers until now for a good debate. I believe that democracy is at risk when you start to take it for granted. If you look at the opening of the Constitutional Day, 17 May, there's nothing to suggest that we take the Constitution for granted, like we celebrate the Constitution. But election day should be an equal party day, because it is when we manifest the rights given to citizens in the form of voting rights, a central point of free democracy. It's been said a lot here about why people don't vote. I think another factor is the sense of renunciation, in the sense that in some cases it is difficult to point out who actually decides in the case. There's a little bit too many people who could say no. One feels that one has got through a case in the local government, so there are some people in the county and they mean something else, and then there is a third term and we mean a third thing, and we have various state agencies that also work here. That sense of remorse is spreading both among voters and among some local politicians. We have to take that seriously. I am absolutely convinced that the responsibility for the political engagement must lie with the politicians, and in our society we have chosen to organise ourselves in political parties. It is the political parties that are responsible for the commitment, and the low turnout is most of all a sentence on our ability to engage the people. I myself have been a member of five nomination committees in my relatively short political career. The times I've been in municipal policy, it's been a very hard job, and the heaviest part of it has been getting a balance in the lists, getting a sufficient number of both sexes, people who really burn to be in local politics. It's my experience – even though it's the greatest spider and on its own basis – that it's hard to get the broad team of the people to make themselves available to be on the list, and I think it's shown again in the poll. The exposure to local government around is not always the same. So a little bit to different instruments: I don't want to dispute what the Council of State said about electronic choices not being a success, but the feedback from Sandnes, a large municipality in Rogaland, is that this year, when they didn't have electronic choices, it was harder to get people to vote. There were people who went home from the polls because it was queue when you went to just ordinary elections. This with women in municipal government is interesting. In my home municipality, Haugesund, there are too few women. The same is true in the neighbouring municipality of Karmøy, while in Tysvær there was a female politician who took the initiative for a cross-political gathering of women candidates, and there achieved a higher proportion of women than in the other municipalities. It shows that if someone addresses the problem early enough, it can help. It's also, once again, what was done by political parties, and I think that's where we have to go in. We cannot solve this through state directives; we must resolve it through the parties, I believe. So it's this with the personification of the policy. I think it turns out both ways. It has become a very self after personal profiles, but we must be so honest and say that in local politics there is endurance over time that counts. There are lengthy processes, and a needy politicians who are willing to stand out. But the personification — and social media — also makes it a greater burden today to be a local politician, because a very quick one is hanged out if one does something or says something that goes across the public opinion. I believe – like the previous speaker – that the right to strike must be put in place. I believe that when you have a list that the party has set up, you are forced to vote on people you may not have confidence in. Why should that power be left to the parties alone? Especially in municipal elections, it is important that you get back the right to cancel. I'll warn you against this by merging elections. The age of first-time voters is one moment, but I think it will be very hard in the local election campaign. This year we saw that it was the national policy issues that got the most attention in the election campaign. If we have one common local and national choice, it will turn out to an even greater degree. But most of all, local policy needs to become more relevant. It has to mean something to people who decides, you have to see the difference. And looking at one at the composition around, we see that there are a lot of different alliances, and everyone knows that blends all of the colors in the color box, doesn't get the color so neat every now and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e297	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue. It's disappointing and thoughtful that we ended up with an election attendance of 60 pst. at the municipal elections. Even more discouraging is that it was only half that voted for the county election. It's positive that we're already getting a debate on what can be done to reverse the negative trend right after the election. As Njåstad had in mind, falling turnout is a trend we have lived with over several decades. A good number of measures have been tried to increase the turnout rate. Many tens of millions of dollars have been invested in marketing measures. Different experimental schemes have been initiated. All we have to do is note that the results have not been achieved. In 2011 and 2013, we conducted experiments with electronic choice. Twelve municipalities participated. It was a good part of the voters who chose to vote from the PC, but the vote in the test municipalities did not separate from other municipalities. The e-election has been carefully evaluated. There is a full report that tells us that it is difficult to point to results in the direction of increased electoral participation as a result of the scheme. However, it is possible to defend e-elections on the basis that it makes it easier for some groups to use their voting rights. But it is also possible to travel counter-conceptions. One thing is the control that the election should be personal and secret. Another counter-representation is that elections are to be conducted in the public space. It has a value that we manage our democracy in a transparent way by giving a certain framework of publicity and community around the elections. Evaluation of the e-elections in 2011 and 2013 showed that most of the voters in the municipalities who participated did not know that their municipality was involved in the experiment. So it's perfectly possible to think that the experiment has to be repeated over a longer period of time to incorporate that it's a current way of voting. Nevertheless, I believe that the result shows us that e-elections are not very significant for the electoral process. I have tried to find out if there is a fixed pattern for high or low turnouts between the municipalities. There's a lot of variation, 10 to 15 pst, and there's a lot. And there are regional differences. Elections in counties and parts of countries vary widely, but it is difficult to know whether there is any variation between city and country or between large and small municipalities. There's been a lot of research on choices. Bernt Aardal's election analyses are important for our understanding of different aspects of the election result. He presented a report on electoral participation and local democracy in 2002. Some of the findings may be relevant today. One of the findings of the survey is that homeowners are not the same from choice to choice. About 40 pst. did not participate in two successive municipal elections, but only 12 pst. of the voters were home-sitters at both of these elections. The study also assessed the general characteristics of high-choice municipalities. This analysis showed that it is in municipalities that are major contributors to national collection actions, which have an active religious life, and which have a low divorce rate and an ageing population – i.e. municipalities with traditional values – that we find the highest turnout. So someone here in the hall might say that we'd rather live with some home seats than work actively so that all of our municipalities would evolve in such a direction in all of these areas. What can be done to increase the turnout rate, especially in local elections? First, there are large differences between municipalities. Do we have any studies showing what is being done in those municipalities where they succeed? Can we look at best practice and try to transfer it to other municipalities? In municipal elections, the voters have a strong influence on whom the parties are to be elected to the local government, but we have restricted the choice of persons through the fact that it can no longer be deleted. We can give additional votes to list candidates, but not cancel. I register that someone wants the old ironing system back. I don't want to. Today's system gives good opportunity to influence, and ironing will be very negative, because we know that there are mostly women and young people who are being strangled. I think it will also make the recruitment of local policy more difficult. I am also sceptical about the proposal for a single election day. In local elections, local issues and candidates are going to be in focus, and I think that if we get a common election day, the local election campaign will drown in the national cases, and it doesn't want the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e327	Thank you to the interpellant for the opportunity for debate. It's important. There are a lot of aspects of the electoral system that you can discuss to get the electoral process up, and I'll get there right away. But the most important thing you can do to get the electoral process up is to create good political debates, local and national. People have to feel that this means something, that there's something at stake, that there's something to say, who's a voter on. I have limited my belief in very large appeals from politicians that now a person has to use his or her voting rights, because that has to be done. I think of the previous local elections, in 2011, when almost the entire electoral campaign was a very appeal that people had to use their voting rights – this was the same after the tragedy of July 22nd – and just as fully, no one saw any particular increase in the vote. Afterwards I traveled to Denmark and was in the elections there. I don't think I heard anyone ask people to use their vote, but there were really tough debates, a lot of commitment, clear political dividing lines and high-pitched polling. Then we will probably also agree that this is about power, and it is about space for action for politics. We see that the more important the choice is, the higher the choice, and so the higher the choice of choice than the choice of the municipality, and then comes the choice of the county, and then, of course, the choice of the church. So if a prefer higher polling locally, what I want and think is positive, a should also discuss the extent to which the political space is actually local. The amount of money that can be used to decide the local government? I think the municipalities should be allowed to decide more. I'm not afraid of any different decisions locally. I'm not afraid there's anything to say to anyone a vote on. But let's say, we move on to the electoral system, and then there are many interesting debates that are being raised. I think there are very positive rates from the interpellant about voting rights for 16-year-olds. That's good. The left is very happy that we had a new experiment this year. Of course, it is to be evaluated and it is exciting to follow its outcome. But everything now we know a little bit about what happened, and it's in line with what happened last time we had a trial plan, and it's in line with what we see in every other country that has the right to vote for 16-year-olds. What is it? Well, the 16- and 17-year-olds use their voting rights to a greater extent than the 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds – i.e. to a greater extent than ordinary first-time voters. Why do they do that? Well, research shows that a person here is talking about an age group that is in a stable life situation, which typically lives in the same local environment as one has been bidding for a long time. One is not thrown into a student's presence, is subject to protection, or is newly moved into a community. Not least they get important information about the choice through the school. We know that voting is a habit, so when you start using your vote early, you continue to vote. It's one of the very important arguments for expanding our electoral system to include 16- and 17-year-olds. Otherwise, I am of the opinion that it is those who will restrict the voting rights that should justify it heavily, and not those who will extend it. So to this with a common election day. I have an unusually small faith in that. It's not necessarily a matter of choosing, but it's a matter of noticing a local option. I was in Sweden during the previous election campaign there. There's a common election day, and you shouldn't believe it, because it's completely impossible to find out that there's a local choice when you're there. I think I read the newspapers the day after the election, and they had full selection. The newspaper Express probably had 37-38 pages of the election. One of the sides was about the local elections, and there was a brief note about what had happened in Stockholm, the largest city in the country. So I'll probably strongly warn you about that. Electronic choice is not something that should be fundamentally opposed, but that it is practically possible to implement it without the incredibly important principle of secret choice being at stake is very difficult to imagine. In addition, of course, there is also the issue of data security in the image. Finally, this option has the option to affect the drop-down list: Yes, the more, the better. Some of the positive things about local options are that it is actually possible to influence the options. That's very good. To reintroduce the possibility to cancel out I also think a should do. I think it should be easier to influence the lists for the county election, and not least I think it should be easier to influence the lists for the election, which to date has not yet happened, and it has something to do with the electoral system. I also hope that we can see progress during the current majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e342	First, I think it's important sometimes to think about, at least when we're going to recruit people into political work, and make us a little aware that people in the world are fighting for the right to vote and to stand for elections, with life as an effort. We've lived in peace and quiet for a long time, there's a lot that works, and it's maybe a bit of a backward attitude, so we have to remind ourselves about it. But it is maritime policy that is most important in this. I've been a local politician and state politician for many years too, and I feel that there's something Municipality-Norway doesn't need now, there are new tasks, but they need money for the tasks they have, so that they have some money left to pursue local policies. That is primarily what politicians lack. We feel that there is not so much difference between the parties locally, it is like the "Commune-Norway Party" against the "State-Norway Party", and then you go into the money bag. It's probably also about municipalities having some of their own economic muscles, some financial muscle – whether it's property taxes or, as I personally believe, a freer municipal taxpayer. I think that the population is fully capable of deciding whether they want to participate in a joint effort to finance, for example. a swimming facility, or whatever it may be. I don't think it's about big or small municipalities either, as the representative Greni was up here and said. Well, if it's an intercommunal company – I should like to see it as engaged because accounting and renovation are now kind of part of what I'm going to sit and decide about and it's no longer going to be in an intercommunal company! No, I don't think it's about that, but I think it's not a very polite and rewarding thing to do to decide which law to break. And most of us agree on these laws – that kids should have kindergarten, that kids should have education, that older people should have room in their homes, that disabled people should be able to get both help and rights and seas to decide where they want to live. We agree on this all man. The problem is that we don't really finance it. And that's what happens in a society where we're stone rich, sitting on the municipal board and not affording enough people in child protection. I think it hurts awfully many, and I've at least talked to a lot of women who say they can't help this because it's too hard and too stupid. So I think we have to look at the policy and how we control this also centrally. I attended a debate under Arendalsuka where a State Secretary from the Right thought that if we were to put in aid now, for example. under the municipalities, and disabled people did not get any help, so they waited for the next municipal elections and voted in favour of some other politicians! This shows that we have perverted this a little bit with the laws we regulate, and how we finance and follow them up, and that it is we and the government that are responsible for it, and not the municipalities. So I also think we have to sort out which problems we want it not to be different, because some problems we want it to be different, for example. more on culture, perhaps, economic development, and school structure, it should be decided by the municipalities. But one of the things that is dangerous now is that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy has a policy like this where they say that we should squeeze so much out of the tube that it is not possible to squeeze it back in again. After all, the political space for action is very limited both nationally and centrally, for example. if you make agreements saying that you are not allowed to take back things that have been privatised. So to the 16-year-olds, I fully agree with what Mr Rotevatn said. We do not require any other age group with voting rights in this country to become more politically engaged. Should we do it – by all, maybe? It's going to be a very good reason to limit the right to vote, because voting is an important human rights good, and I think that then we have to prove why it's wrong that they shouldn't have it. It is quite right that when these trials were carried out, these 16-17-year-olds voted more than 18-19-year-olds, and then I also think it would be wrong to say that we should have one attempt at this for one period, and maybe for two periods, and then we know what that is like. No, I think it has to be justified why 16-year-olds should not have voting rights in that case, and I think they should have it over a longer period of time. Then you can know if it works. So, finally, electronic voting: at least we have to develop what the Blind League took up in the hearing in the Municipal Committee yesterday, that is, that you can make an app so that the blind can also fix on the lists, and that's an app that can then only be used inside the polling room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e362	I would also like to thank the representative Njåstad for taking up this interview. It is an incredibly important debate. If we have too low – I think, at least – electoral participation, and if it is stable, then I think we should lift on each tue to find out how we can get more people to vote. I do not agree with the representative Rotevatn who believes that it is not an end in itself, as I see it, that people should go to the ballot boxes. Like others, and as the Council of State said very well at the beginning of its speech, it's a great paradox that when we live in a democracy where we don't have to fight or die to be allowed to vote, and we see what's going on in the world, that right isn't used. I think that when it comes to politics – whether it's here in the house, in the county or in the municipality – it's everyday life for people we're dealing with. Maybe that's what people don't see – whether it's here, or whether it's there. I believe that what several of the representatives have been involved in, and that the representative of Kolberg very clearly addressed – that the policy itself is responsible for making itself relevant, and that it is difficult to see differences – can help to explain that people choose not to vote. I hear many people say that there is no difference no matter who controls. But then I also think that the representative of SV Andersen is very right when she says that this is essential for how a person experiences operating municipal policy, and how a person experiences what opportunities he has to do the tasks he is assigned to do in municipal policy. The council said something about accessibility to the meetings, making room to include the inhabitants. There is no doubt that it is right, nor is there any doubt that both departments and municipalities use a lot of resources both to inform and in various ways to get people to go to the polls. But when I think it's so important that the representative has addressed this, it's because everything we've done shows that it's not good enough – it doesn't make more flows to the urns – and at least I want to be there and see what we can do. I willingly admit – not willingly, in fact, but I admit it – that I have not been in favour of voting for 16-year-olds, it has not been the Workers' Party at all. It's one of the things that's going to be interesting to look at when it's going to be evaluated. The same applies to the Internet, and several of these attempts have been made – what will the evaluation say? What the evaluation says will also be important to us when we are going to take this debate further into the party, considering how we are going to align ourselves. But then it's like this: I was in municipal government for 16 years. I entered the municipal government in Gjesdal in 1987, with Palestinian skarf and jogging shoes and was 20 years old and was supposed to save the world. I was in that municipal government for 16 years. I was one of a few women and the only youth who came in that time. I have been one of those who have been to take away the deletion and also make it positive to cumulate, precisely because women and young people are the ones who fall out of the local government. I'm not going to say here from this pulpit that I'm willing to join in on what Martin Kolberg really is willing to join in, to possibly take in the ironing again. But I want to be there and look at it, if you can prove the significance of getting local government and county councils that are representative of the whole population. Then I hear the interpellant say – and he is right – that it may be felt so out of the way that the inhabitants are not allowed to decide for themselves which people are going to enter the local government. It is certainly the case in the Workers' Party that when one is on a list, whether it is for big or for county or for local government, one is on that list because one is on a program for the party. I do not believe that the person is relevant, but the most important thing when one is sitting for four years – whether it is here or in the local government – is to carry out the policy that the party stands for. I think maybe one of the things that makes that dimension disappear in municipal policy is that politics – which is party politics, ideology and principles – disappears when a driver with – I kept saying – ‘minor’ things. And when one confuses all of this, this color becomes, something other representatives have been up on the pulpit and talked about earlier, a color that people don't see differently. I want people to choose who gets into the local government, but I also want it to be a clear political profile, and I want it to be so that women and young people don't fall out. Then I think that one of the things that the Labour Party has not decided, but that we have to discuss, is whether a common election day can be the way to go, without me concluding on this right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e384	This year's turnout was, as many have said, at a low level. The attendance at this year's municipal and county elections was disappointingly weak, and it is therefore affordable for the inter-pellant to challenge the Council of State on what should be done to reverse the negative trend and increase the turnout and the rise in democracy. I therefore believe that what we are doing today is quite appropriate: to debate different solutions such as electronic voting, the 16-year limit on voting rights, or – which has been called for by many – to introduce the deletion of candidates. Otherwise, I think it's interesting to assess the common election day, but what I also want us to look at a little bit more closely is the possibility of introducing local election dates within a fixed period of time. The Interpellant himself made the point that many complain that local elections are dominated by national politicians, but such a solution is likely to prevent it. It was e.g. very few national politicians involved in the debate on Svalbard in the context of the local elections there two weeks ago. What I was going to spend a little time on is the e-election system, which has been advocated by several – some positive, some negative. I'm basically opposed to e-choices because it doesn't guarantee secret choices. In the form that we have tested out e-elections, I believe it undermines the principle of secret elections, and we facilitate that family members and others can influence voting. E-election supporters believe that one has guaranteed the principle of secret elections and has secured itself against potential influence and coercion because people can zero out the last electronic vote given, either by re-voting or by going to the polling room on election day. One thing is that one maintains the principle that people have the right to cast a voice secretly, but an equally important principle is the state's duty to ensure that people vote secretly. I have no doubt that e-elections in the long term would contribute to higher turnout. I also believe that my party would serve on e-elections, but a state that evades its duty that everyone votes secret no longer has secret elections, and that principle must hang higher than the desire to get more to the polls. In addition, as the representative Rotevatn mentioned, there is the possibility of hacking and electronic burglary that will be a major threat. Otherwise, I am pleased with what the Council of State has sent out at the hearing that the voters could have more to say about who would represent them, among other things. on Stortinget in the future. I think it's important to make sure that we remove the 50 pst requirement. add-on to the vote and that we find a system that strengthens the influence of voters. When it comes to what many have been concerned about what makes us more able to vote, I think the conclusion must be that these are the issues that determine the turnout. We need clear alternatives locally and to give policy more content. If there's anyone in doubt about local issues that determine the turnout, I guess it's just to look at this year's church elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e399	Thank you for a good debate. I think it's very good that so many parties have taken the word and went up here and thought a little bit tall, and in a way thought a little bit new, and were occupied by the same problem, just that democracy is important. So I really appreciated it. I thought it was very interesting that the representative Martin Kolberg from this spokesperson said it was going well anyway. It stands in sharp contrast to various statements he has had before, about Frp code, etc. So it takes us – that it's going well anyway. Then I thought that the representative Karin Andersen had almost opposed the entrance, that it is going badly anyway, and I'm glad that I have our local politicians, because if I had listened to that post, I don't think I would have been willing to be. I do not know myself at all in that the room for action is so small, and that it is so difficult to be local politicians as one could get the impression through the article to Karin Andersen. Fortunately, there is a large room for action for a local politician, and one can make a difference. But I agree with Martin Kolberg's analysis, that we might have to be better at getting the differences, and living with the differences, and maybe the Storing is going to be better at accepting that there are differences. We don't have to verify all possible minimum standards and make them. We can rather live with different municipalities being different, and that there are different standards in different municipalities. And maybe that's the most important thing we take on, that we have to give more confidence in local democracy. This includes: to the effect that the State, through the State officials, shall lay down in less. We're going to continue the course we started. I am sure that future local government options will be more interesting when we have equipped municipalities with more trust and more tasks. Otherwise, it is good that a lot of different batch addresses the points I raised with regard to both the common election day, the evaluation of the trials that have been and that are, once again, the deletion and greater impact for the voters. It shows that it's natural to take a debate. It must be taken by all parties, and then the Storting must take the debate at its proper time. There are different views in many batches of these questions, so I'm sure both program processes and batch processes will clarify what's going on. It also applies to my own party. There are, as the representative Steffensen said, many who are sceptical about e-elections, and we are many who are skeptical about the age of voting. But what I think is important is that we're all open to evaluate different things, seen in the light of both polling and that we're going to further develop and further develop democracy. This debate has given good hope that the Storting may have many exciting discussions about electoral selection. We are already invited to decide on the election of individuals in the event of a roll-call vote, and it is good that we continue to develop democracy through debates and through proposals that the Storting will adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e412	Once again, thank you for a good debate, which raises both fundamental questions and more practical questions about how to facilitate the electorate. I believe that the representative Martin Kolberg is concerned about something central when he indicates that many voters claim that it is difficult to see the differences locally. Why is it hard to see the differences locally? Well, an important reason for this is that through an alternating majority over several decades, Stortinget has increased the state-level detailed management of municipalities. It is a reality that the space for action of local politicians has gradually diminished, and it is barely a week away from new proposals that reduce the scope for action of local politicians. The smaller the space for action, the harder it is to show the differences between the political parties. For this reason, municipal reform is important – because it is both about getting a structure adapted to today’s and tomorrow’s challenges, and about how to give local politicians, local democracy, more real influence by reducing state detail management, moving tasks and by reducing the use of inter-municipal cooperation. That means that the chosen ones will be able to decide more. The other questions raised are about electoral influence. Here I believe it is important that the discussions are taken into account in Stortinget. Now, on the basis of a proposal from the United Kingdom, we have promoted a consultation paper to introduce increased influence in the event of major elections. There, Stortinget will have a decision-making basis for spring. This means that the Stortinget can then decide that the voters will have greater influence already at the 2017 decision-making process. I think that is a good proposal. As regards the introduction of any right to cancel, I believe that there is an important discussion that the Storting must take. Then there is the question of the voting rights of 16-year-olds. The main argument against this is that the age of authority is 18 years. It is when you are 18 that you are authoritative, and it is natural that the age of voting follows the age of authority. It has been looked at whether those with 16-year-old voting rights voted more strongly in the 2013 Grand Prix. There was no particular outcome in the direction of it. So one cannot say that by lowering the age of voting rights, they also vote more often in other elections. As I said, I think that attempts are sensible to implement, but major changes should be broadly politically anchored – we cannot have a major political conflict around elections and election implementation. But the debate is important, and then the decisions must be broadly anchored politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e427	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e433	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e557	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-20.ana.ud1969e588	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
