ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e53	The representative of Odd Omland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the county of Hedmark: Bente Elin Lilleakseth For Oslo: Vegard Gröslie Wennesland For Sogn and Fjordane County: Bjørn Erik Hollevik The Group of the Party of European Socialists has submitted an application for welfare leave to the representative of Mazyar Keshvari on Thursday 26 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Peter N. Myhre, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e90	Peter N. Myhre is present and will take the seat. The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e95	On behalf of the representatives of Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Geir S. Tuskedal and Anders Tyvand and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to implement an action plan against antisemitism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e100	The representative, Mr Kjell-Idar Juvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e103	On behalf of Eirin Sund, Magne Rommetveit, Ingvild Kjerkol, Sverre Myrli and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on changes for cars in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e108	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e111	I will, on behalf of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, make a proposal to stop the plans for a major hospital in Gaustad and to develop the local hospital service at Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e116	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e120	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on hospitals in Nord-Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e125	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e139	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e153	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e160	A liberal legal state, combined with well-functioning banking and financial institutions, is a prerequisite for economic growth and welfare development. This is precisely why it is desirable and important that we stand together politically on the changes that are being made. So let's do that. The Banking Act Commission has been working for over 25 years on a new, comprehensive financial legislation, and that is the main result of the work we are going to adopt here today. Although the law will continue to change continuously, this represents a major step for Norwegian financial legislation. Today's debate and decisions form the basis for legislation and legislation we have to live with for decades to come. Some of the major changes made relate to the soundness legislation of insurance companies, such as: replaces the required solvency margin of the day. The objective of the new legislation is to increase the protection of policy-holders and to improve the stability of financial markets. Of course we say, yes, thank you – both. Insurance activities were also one of the areas of debate. As is so often the case in politics: we do not necessarily have to disagree with either problem description or objectives, but the instrument. On the right, Norway agrees that there is a large, unmet need for investment in infrastructure. However, the regulation of the right of insurance companies to hold interests in non-insurance companies is there for insurance companies to operate and manage the funds, so that they always cover their liabilities. Insurance companies are not industrial builders; they are managers of human savings, and they come in many forms and sizes. In addition, the regulation is intended, on the one hand, to prevent concentration of interest and influence, and, on the other, to reduce the risk that insurance companies may be involved in support or rescue operations through significant interests in other companies. The majority of the Committee therefore considers it wise to maintain the existing restriction and points to the fact that exemptions already exist under the given conditions for insurance undertakings that wish to invest in non-insurance activities and have the prerequisites for doing so. As regards the rules on securitisation, it was originally proposed to abolish them. The legislation has been applied only once and the comments of the hearing bodies justify this in particular. that the legislation has not been sufficiently good. The Swedish Securities Institute fell into a state of emergency in the wake of the financial crisis, and it is not until recently that we have seen a desire and need to develop a new, more robust regulatory framework in this area, including: in the EU. In Norway, only one entity has carried out securitisation transactions and the Committee wants a transitional provision in regulation that takes account of precisely those transactions. As this method of funding is again being tested in Europe, there may be grounds for considering the re-establishment of a general Norwegian regulatory framework for it. One of the more demanding areas of the proposition was cooperation groups and cooperation agreements. If proportionate consolidation is not required irrespective of the size of the holding of cooperating groups, it in effect means that the law provides for access to the organisation of banking activities in a way that may result in a better coverage of the reported capital than economic realities. In some cases, residential loans have been withdrawn from banks’ balance sheets in recent years and transferred to credit institutions owned by cooperating groups. This is not well taken into account in the current law. The Committee points out that there is a guiding principle in Norwegian financial institution legislation that soundness requirements should be equally good regardless of how undertakings choose to organise their activities, and therefore stresses the importance of correcting the weakness of the applicable legislation regarding the consolidation of the capital adequacy. As regards the resulting reporting by financial institutions, the reporting may be designed so that it does not appear to be burdensome for the entities. Norway has the national freedom to organise reporting in such a way as to make it easy and the Committee assumes that this is done by the Financial Supervisory Authority in relation to this reporting. The Committee also considers that there is a need for any adjustment time for banks and that transitional rules should be laid down for the amendment of the law, so that no banks are required to consolidate holdings of less than 10 pst. before 31 December 2017. Furthermore, the Committee would point out that the Ministry should be allowed to derogate from the general requirements for proportionate consolidation of holdings of less than 10 p.m., either by regulation or by individual decision, where this is inconceivable. The Committee has therefore asked the Ministry to return to the practice and enforcement of the exemption provision in the financial market notification. As regards the distribution of gifts and savings banks, the Committee noted that several of the hearing bodies considered the proposal related to specific rules on the activities of savings banks as a change to current practice on the gift practices of savings banks. The Committee points out that the proposal does not involve a change of current practice but limits the use of non-profit-making activities to commercial activities. However, the delimitation shall not prevent foundations from contributing to general measures useful for local value creation, whether those are investments, scholarships, competence measures or individual gifts to organisations or other activities. With this, I would like to thank the Committee on Development and Cooperation for its constructive cooperation and therefore recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e190	The Financial Corporations Act may not be the largest kiosk switch. A simple Google search showed two hits in the news in total – both from 2014. But it might be right that it is. This is not a law that exists to entertain, but to modernise rules for both businesses and people. Today, we are adopting the largest formal legislative amendment in the field of finance of more than 50 years. There are several decades of legal substance now being brought together in one common law, which consolidates the banking laws of the 1960s, the Finance Act of the 1980s, the Banking Act of the 1990s and the Insurance Business Act of the 2000s. The sound work of the Banking Law Commission has come to an end. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for their good cooperation. The Finance Committee got a well-worked law that both this and the previous governments have worked on, but which in most of the laws could only improve a good law. The size has listened to the industry, discussed and improved the law then. Through the work of the committee we finally agreed, and I am pleased that there is a unified committee that stands behind the large lines of the law. Let me link some words to some of these improvements. It has been important for the Workers' Party to ensure good conditions for savings banks and regional banks. We have a unique banking structure in Norway, with many small local savings banks. That's not all that's weird and Norwegian, we're going to keep, but this is a peculiarity for the better. We have banks that know their community, that understand local business, and that help us use the whole country. The Labour Party believes that we have come up with a good solution, avoiding banks being able to organise themselves away from capital requirements, while at the same time facilitating that today's banking structure can be maintained somewhat as it is today. Maybe this is where the committee made the most important improvement. In the setting both a transitional and an exemption provision has been proposed. At the same time, we have asked the Ministry of Finance to return to the practice and enforcement of the exemption provision in the financial market notification. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Labour Party, that we will closely monitor the follow-up to the intentions of the Financial Committee's decision in the further work. That's a prerequisite for the consensus we see today in Stortinget. In any case, the Ministry has extensive work to do with making regulations for the new law. The law contains, I am aware, no less than 270 statutory homes to be adopted. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the industry, organisations and stakeholders for their good input and cooperation along the way. There have been many useful and instructive discussions along the way in this process. The Workers' Party has also been committed to rehabilitate the Gift Institute as a community-builder and an important contributor, among other things. volunteering and local cultural life. Several hearing bodies considered the government proposal to be a change in present-day gift practice. The Committee points out that savings bank foundations should continue to be able to distribute gifts to other foundations for non-profit purposes and that the proposal does not alter current practice. We have also listened to the perceptions of continuing today's legislation on securitisation until new legislation is in place. It has been important for the Workers' Party to avoid a legislative vacuum. I would once again like to thank the Committee for its constructive and good work and congratulate the Minister of Finance on the extensive regulatory work she has in front of her.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e222	Let me also extend a great thank you to the rapporteur, who has been very wise in the matter. It is not an easy matter to put in the pen, but she has managed to do it in an excellent way and has put together the committee. The financial industry is an important carrier of the Norwegian economy. This is because the financial industry provides companies with risk capital and provides capital channelling where capital benefits the most to society. While SV and Audun Lyssbakken have previously been calling for the removal of the stock exchange, the Progress Party believes, on the contrary, that the financial industry has a key role to play in dealing with the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. The party of progress and the government can do nothing to keep the oil price down, among other things. U.S. shale oil production and reduced growth in the world economy, but we can facilitate that the decline in the Norwegian oil industry can be offset by growth and optimism in other industries. I am very pleased that today we are adopting a new single law on financial undertakings and the financial group, which involves modernising and simplifying existing regulations. I am also very pleased that we are at a lower level of detail in the legal regulation than the Banking Law Commission has provided. An important objective of the legislative proposal is to make central parts of financial legislation more transparent and user-friendly for financial undertakings and for public authorities. This is a major benefit for the financial industry — which is important in terms of industry — which can play its key role in the Norwegian economy in the years to come. Norway needs the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e237	To substantiate the good cooperation between different parties these days, I fully agree with the last thing the representative said before me. The Banking Law Commission, as the rapporteur said, has been working for many years on a new set of global financial legislation, and we are seeing the main result here today. As you know, the aim is to increase the protection of policy-holders and to improve the stability of financial markets, and that is where we stand together. I refer you to the rapporteur's statement, to which I agree, and I also thank her for the work she has done on the occasion of the case. So I'm spending a little bit of time on what's been a little discussion in the committee. The rapporteur mentioned this with securitisation transactions and the wish of the Committee for a transitional provision, so that these can continue to be done. I understand, at least from our side, that this applies not only to the current transactions, but also to new ones, so that you do not get a stay in the legislation that can cause problems, at least for the company that operates the type of transactions in Norway today. Then the question that Tvedt Solberg also raised, namely the possibility of exception that is now included in Section 17-3, relating to the cooperating units. Here we've agreed, but we've done so assuming that the exceptions are actually used, and that they are used in such a way that the smaller banking units can still work the way they do today. I believe that is one of the most important benefits of the Norwegian banking industry and the diversification we have of the Norwegian banking industry with strong local savings banks, which is because they can also be part of a cooperating unit. I also have to say that with the Competition Authority's report yesterday, there is a further contribution to working towards not tightening up the structure we have, but rather making it more competitive. Then there was this with the gift provisions from the savings banks, that said the case rapporteur. For us, it is obvious that this concerns both the savings banks and the savings banks themselves. The last was the cooperative financial undertakings, where a single committee assumes that they are the members of the undertakings which are to constitute the ultimate body. I have not realized that there is any disagreement about it, but then it is also said from this pulpit that that is what we have meant. Finally, I take up the proposal from the minority to ensure that the core business is further underlined in the law. I noticed in the hearing that there were several bodies that sniffed at both the one and the other when it came to expanding what they could invest in from business etc. etc. This proposal is based on a selection process aimed at ensuring a sound financial industry, and in the wake of the financial crisis, many people have pointed out this willingness to spread so much away from the core business. I am pleased that the rapporteur says that we really agree on that, but the proposal is there, and we take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e256	The representative Hans Olav Syversen then addressed the proposal of the minority to which he referred, mentioned on page 12 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e259	I don't know if I'm helping the representative Holthe from the Progress Party when his party leader is here and I'm saying that I agree with everything he said – whether it's good when someone from the Center Party says to a Progress Party representative: I think I agreed with almost everything you said! And that's a good sign! This committee procedure was at its best when we had different considerations that we wanted to have in mind. There were some primary suggestions, but there were some common comments, just to raise this further. There were a couple of things that we in the Center Party were particularly concerned about. It was to safeguard the interests of many small and cooperating banks, and we believe that we have helped to ensure that the consolidation legislation does not impose unreasonable costs on individual banks through comprehensive reporting requirements. The Committee has agreed on a joint note that the Ministry of Finance: «shall be allowed to derogate from the general requirements for proportionate consolidation of holdings of less than 10 p.m., either by regulation or by individual decision, where this is unthinkable. The Committee asks the Ministry to return to the practice and enforcement of the exemption provision in the Financial Market Communication 2014.’;» Then there was another area that we were occupied with, and that also Hans Olav Syversen was inside his post. They relate to cooperative financial undertakings and to the ownership management of those undertakings. I just want to read out the note that a joint committee finally fell upon: ‘In the case of cooperative undertakings, the Committee takes the view that it is the members of the undertakings which are to be the top level bodies. The Ministry is asked to provide a detailed assessment and clarification of this in the Financial Market Communication 2014. ‘... The advantage of the committee reading now was that there were different things. There was some uncertainty about what was the best way to regulate it legally – therefore a clear joint remark from an overall committee. I also got the impression, from the government parties, that the government was interested in and willing to come back with a clear and clear explanation of that, in line with the intentions that were in the suspension of the financial market notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e280	The President, who records that the representative is delighted to agree with a Party representative, recalls that the speech is to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e283	Only a short comment from the Left related minority suggestion that we make in the setting. Norway has a great need for investment in infrastructure, both energy, water, sewerage and transport. At the same time, the Norwegian life insurance company manages more than 1000 billion. kr in pension funds, and life insurance corporations have an increasing need to invest in shares that are adapted to the long-term obligations of the company. The potential for increased investment in life insurance company infrastructure may be well-suited to combine these needs. Nevertheless, we know that today's insurance business law prevents this, since it prohibits life insurance companies from owning more than 15 p.m. by a company carrying on ‘non-insurance activities’. This legislative wording has been proposed by the government in new Section 13-9 of the proposal for a new Financial Regulation. [[2]] As I am aware, this is a strange requirement that does not exist in other countries. The left has long called for the introduction of a bond model to finance large infrastructure projects, thus referring to Document 8:83 S for 2010–2011, where the Left proposed such a solution for faster and more expansion, etc. by intercity on the Austland. We point out that the Financial Supervisory Authority in the Ministry’s hearing response suggests that the owner’s limitation of 15 p.m. in a company carrying on ‘non-insurance activities’, and that both Finans Norway, the Sparebank 1 alliance, the Energy Norway, the KLP and the ZERO addressed the same issue during the hearings of the Financial Committee on 6 January this year. I therefore take up the suggestion made by the Left in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e294	The representative of Terje Breivik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e298	The purpose of regulating financial undertakings is to contribute to financial stability and to the proper and reassuring functioning of financial undertakings. We will now have good, modern and forward-looking legislation that will form the basis for financial market regulation for many years to come. This will be a law that will be applied every day and will also need to be developed in the future as structural changes, technological changes and changes in international legislation take place. I am pleased with the broad consensus that it is about the new law, also with regard to Solvency II and the capital adequacy regime. This concerns important international adaptations, but primarily the consideration of national financial stability and the safe financial industry. We have a good tradition in Norway to listen to the advice of the professional authorities and to agree on key instruments to ensure financial stability. In consultation with the Financial Committee, this shall include, inter alia: contribute to the fact that we have already been able to consult the Solvency II Regulation so that the industry is made aware of the details of the legislation to which they relate as early as possible. The proposal essentially involves a systematisation and a continuation of existing substantive legal rules, but it also contains important new substantive rules, such as: provides a greater level of non-discrimination between savings banks and commercial banks clarifying the rules on company names and other characteristics of financial undertakings legislating the obligation of banks to receive cash from customers and making deposits available to customers in the form of cash In order to protect the rights and position of customers vis-à-vis financial undertakings, we also introduce requirements for the organisation of customer treatment by financial undertakings. We clarify the rules on the exchange of customer information between group entities. It is important for the protection of privacy. I would also like to take the opportunity to link some comments to some points in the Committee's position. In recent years, some extensive cooperation has been developed between groups of otherwise independent banks and enterprises. The new rules on such cooperating groups will strengthen the cooperating groups in competition with the financial groups. The Banking Law Commission had proposed to treat cooperative groups in full with the financial group. This would be something more burdensome than necessary. We therefore met the industry and dismissed the drafts of the Banking Law Commission on this point. However, the Government agreed with the Banking Commission that there was a need for new and better consolidation rules for cooperating groups. The consolidation of large holdings is an important part of the banking soundness rules. Where small and medium-sized banks transfer a significant share of their lending portfolio to joint-owned residential credit institutions, the percentage holding of each bank in such undertakings may be limited, but may nevertheless be large when viewed in relation to the size of the bank. Therefore, I am pleased that the Financial Committee agrees that there is a need to introduce consolidation requirements irrespective of the size of the holding in such cases. However, there may be some cases where consolidation is completely unnecessary. I am therefore in favour of the committee's unanimous proposal for an exception for the ministry where, in order to use the committee's own words, it would be unthinkable to derogate from the consolidation requirement. I will, in line with the position of the Financial Committee, come back in the Financial Market Communication to how we intend to practice this derogation. The savings banking industry has been very concerned that practical deadlines for reporting consolidated figures need to be established. I am prepared to meet the industry and will come back with a reference in the financial market notification. Another theme addressed by the Financial Committee is the distribution of gifts from savings banks and savings banks. The availability of gifts has always been limited to non-profit purposes. A study on the distribution of gifts in the savings banking sector conducted by the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2011 showed that the limit between gifts for non-profit purposes and gifts for business activities has been applied differently. So in the proposition, we've tried to clarify this limit. I stress that the rules on the distribution of gifts must apply equally, regardless of whether the distribution is from a savings bank or a savings bank foundation, and of course the gift must go to a purpose which is within the legal practice of the term ‘public benefit’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e336	Today, Stortinget deals with an important law to better regulate financial markets in Norway through a new collective law on financial participation and the financial group. As the case-speaker has done well, this law will improve the current legislation and some tightening and clarifications. This work has been based on the proposal of the Banking Law Commission and the following hearings. The process in the Financial Committee has been thorough, as far as I know. We've got a good law, with a wide plural. SV supports the proposal for a new Financial Enterprise Act. Despite this, there is still a part that says that when it comes to regulation of the financial industry. Financial institutions are the blood vessels of business. It is decisive that the regulation of this industry works well and is sufficiently strict, in order to avoid unwanted events. The financial crisis has once again shown the value of what could happen to bad regulations. Banks internationally took higher risks than what was defended. For every single institution, some of the choices might seem reasonable, but at the system level, the sum of the choices was disastrous. With this proposal, there will still not be a good enough regulatory framework with quantitative limits on which banks may have risky private interest rate paper or derivatives. Although the risk may appear to be small for each individual bank, the pooling of systemic risk may become too high. A large part of the losses to the banks during the financial crisis came from the interest rate paper, as a decrease in value. This was also the background for a large minority in the Financial Crisis Selection to limit the availability of banks to increase risk through activities other than the core business. They therefore recommended more measures than is currently available in legislation. These are ratings we join, together with the Christian People's Party. We therefore propose that legislation should be drawn up to ensure that the possibility of banks ‘to take risks through activities other than the core business is further defined’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e365	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e372	It is an overall committee which supports the proposal for a decision. I want to thank all the parties for a good and constructive cooperation. It is also nice to see that Stortinget's ability to stand together in matters where there is an obvious consensus. The Committee is not alone in agreeing on this matter. In the context of the case, the Committee held a hearing in which representatives from the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association, NHO Transport, the Professional Traffic Association, the Norwegian Lastebileier-Federal Association and the Employers' Association Specter were involved. So it was a good representation of both employers and employees. Both sides of the table, as it is called, agreed that there were major challenges related to cabotage, and both sides were also clear that it was a problem that foreign operators did not respond properly to VAT to the Norwegian State. This is therefore the background to the proposal for a representative, and the Committee, like the proposers and the consultative bodies, is concerned about the development of the industry and therefore meets the measures of the government in the matter. Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen has sent out a press release stating clearly that the Ministry will review the tax system to combat illegal cabotage. It will also be fully in line with the wishes of the Committee. On the other hand, when you read the answers from the Minister of Finance, which she has given to the Committee on the subject, you can get the impression that she does not think that the solutions to the challenges are necessarily within her department's remit, and I would like to hear what the Minister says about this in his post later on. Today, vehicles from a country within the EEA territory can take on three national missions within seven days in Norway in the case of freight transport. This greatly limits the possibility of cabotage operations and allows for control. On the road side, however, this restriction does not exist and one can operate on a temporary basis without the concept of temporaryity being further clarified or defined. It also makes the challenges particularly high in this sector. As of June 2014, there were 2,300 unemployed professional drivers. The state’s road registration statistics show that from 2008 to 2012, we have had a decline in the number of Norwegian registered trucks of almost 4,500. During the same five-year period, the potential for cabotage has increased sharply by an increase of 19 pst in imports of foreign trucks. and the export with 17 pst. This corresponds to a total growth of 1.2 million tonnes or about 80000 more foreign cars travelling to and from Norway with goods in a year. There are few statistics on cabotage in Norway, and therefore there are also many estimates, but most actors agree that the scale is increasing and that there is a major problem. The Committee was informed in the hearing that the issue of VAT for non-resident carriers concerns not only the conditions of competition between Norwegian and non-resident carriers, but also the loss of income from taxes and charges for Norwegian society. It was also claimed that foreign operators can camouflage cabotage as international transport and obtain a refund of input VAT on inputs such as fuel and workshop services, and that these operators are then charged at the expense of local taxable companies and are able to conduct extensive value creation without giving anything to the Norwegian community. In view of this, it is enough that an overall committee asks that something be done in the matter: the government asks the government to ‘monitor the scale of cabotage’. It is requested that the government “make it possible for all carriers operating in Norway to pay VAT to the Norwegian State under Norwegian rules”, and we also ask that the government “make it possible for the tax authorities to intensify the control of the transport industry in order to prevent tax evasion and further distortions of competition in favour of non-resident carriers”. The majority therefore believe that the government has a job to do in this area, and we are meeting what the minister has to say later in the matter. I am not going to talk on behalf of everyone, but for my own part I have to say that I am very impatient when we are going to put in place measures that will strengthen local actors in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e393	First of all, thank you to Truls Wickholm for the work that has been done well as a case spokesman and for the good cooperation in this matter. It is gratifying that the Committee is consulted in its recommendation to this draft representative. Thanks also to the proposers for putting an important issue on the agenda, the question of whether VAT should be answered by foreign companies operating domestic transport of people and goods in Norway. This issue affects the areas of responsibility of both the Transport Committee and the Financial Committee. The Committee had heard on the subject on 6 January, and we received many recordings from actors that confirmed the issue of cabotage. Most of the players are aware that the scale of cabotage is rising, and the use of domestic wage and labour conditions gives foreign operators a significant cost and competitive advantage in the Norwegian market. The Minister of Finance replied by letter to the Finance Committee on 15 October 2014 to the question of VAT exemptions from cabotage operations in the Norwegian transport market may amount to billions, representing distortions of competition in the favour of Norwegian carriers. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Directorate has examined the extent to which non-compliance with VAT law actually results in a loss of tax revenue. The report from the Tax Directorate shows that this is hardly true, and that the competitive disadvantage experienced by Norwegian carriers comes from other circumstances. There may be a need for formalised cooperation in road traffic and better cooperation between the control authorities involved in order to ensure overall compliance with the legislation on transport and cabotage operations in Norway. This government is busy with this issue, and there is already a report on cabotage that the Minister for Transport received on 26 March 2014. The Working Group was set up in 2013 by the Ministry of Transport to identify the main challenges of cabotage. The broad-based working group suggests a wide range of 24 different measures to combat cabotage. The Minister for Transport quickly announced more and more targeted controls on heavy cars, also targeting cabotage. The Minister also expressed the need for safer statistics and knowledge on the extent and effects of cabotage. The Committee therefore calls on the government to properly identify the extent of cabotage, to ensure that all companies pay VAT to the Norwegian State under Norwegian rules, and to facilitate, in their own right, that tax authorities step up control of the transport industry in order to prevent tax evasion and additional distortions of competition in favour of foreign carriers. We look forward to further work by the government on the problem of cabotage in the Norwegian transport market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e408	Let me also start by thanking Mr Wickholm for a good cooperation and a unanimous attitude from the Committee, with proposals for further follow-up in an area that has many challenges. But that being said, there may also be reason to remind the representative of Wickholm that it was the red-green government that approved and implemented the EU directive, or the amendments to the directive, on cabotage, and quite quickly it was seen that the new directive had several unfortunate aspects, including: breach of cabotage rules and increasing challenges in this respect with a level playing field — with the challenges it creates for the Norwegian transport sector. The representative’s proposal is based on the lack of VAT registration as a basis for large tax exemptions related to cabotage in the Norwegian transport market. Both in the Ministry of Finance's replies and in the Committee's hearing, this description of reality has been significantly nuanced. In particular, a hearing opinion from the General Organisation of Works, which, by reference to information provided by the Directorate of Taxation, indicates that today’s substantive VAT rules are non-discriminatory and sufficiently clear. Equal treatment and non-discrimination between foreign and Norwegian companies shall be the rule of industrial policy, including fiscal and fiscal policies. Non-registration in the VAT register is not the main challenge for the transport of goods or persons. There are undoubtedly actors operating in the grey zone or even operating in black, but there is no direct link between these being of foreign origin or on cabotage operations. It is necessary to distinguish between legal and illegal cabotage operations and to establish even better control procedures in order to detect illegal activities which can help to push forward serious carriers who are compliant with the applicable legislation and pay their taxes and taxes — perhaps not with pleasure but at least to the community. Cabotage is lawful within defined limits. Foreign competition is a challenge for Norwegian transport companies due to different cost levels, but not illegal, and fully allowed under EEA legislation. Illegal cabotage operations must be detected and stopped by concrete measures. In a short time, the Ministry of Transport and the Government have been very active in this area. There is reason to mention the introduction of mandatory bombing devices in a commercial vehicle from 1 January of this year, while also introducing quite comprehensive and good sanctioning systems and sanctions against those who do not comply with this legislation. The control of heavier cars was fivefold in 2014 and this effort will be further increased in 2015. An initiative towards the EU has been taken to establish a better overview and statistics on both the transport of goods and persons. So the government has been very active in this area already in a short time, and I think you could say that in the short time that has gone by since the government change, you have shown a much bigger activity than the previous government did in the years that this was an equally current issue. Control procedures and measures to detect illegal cabotage are important, but reduced costs and improved framework conditions for the Norwegian transport sector will increase competitiveness and reverse the negative trend experienced by industry. Reduced charges, better depreciation rules and general relief in passenger and business taxation will help to offset the competitive advantages of foreign transport companies entrusted in Norway. In that area too, this government delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e429	The question of value added tax for non-resident carriers is not only about a level playing field between Norwegian and non-resident carriers, but also about the loss of tax revenue for Norwegian society. As long as foreign actors can camouflage cabotage such as international transport and receive a refund of input VAT on inputs such as fuel and workshop services, they can easily take a job at the expense of local taxable companies and operate extensive value creation without providing anything to the Norwegian community. The report that was handed over to Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen on 26 March last year from the Working Party on the Challenges of Kabotage highlights the fact that foreign actors are not registered in Norway, i.e. that they provide national services without responding to Norwegian VAT, which is distorting competition, as the buyer is located abroad and does not deduct Norwegian VAT. Registration is mandatory for those who market more than NOK 50000 in Norway. It is also claimed that this is not followed up by the authorities in practice. Finally, some of the members of the working group pointed out that although passenger cabotage is actually involved, foreign operators often rely on international transport. They thus relate to the 12-day rule under the driving and rest periods, as opposed to Norwegian actors who have to deal with the 6-day rule today, cf. points 4.1, 4.3. The centre party now believes that there is time for action, to ensure that we have Norwegian operators in the transport industry again. This is not just about Norwegian jobs. It is also about having a serious and sound transport of persons and goods on Norwegian roads. Now, when you see all the news releases over a winter, we all agree that action needs to be taken. In the light of industry concerns, I am pleased to see that the Committee supports a survey of the scale of cabotage operations in order to ensure that we in this Chamber, and to the extent that the Minister of Finance, will have the opportunity to actually say what are the real challenges of cabotage driving in Norway. Words such as «deceptive», «antas», «small material», «interpreter» and «appropriate» indicate that the Minister of Finance is not willing to meet the challenges presented by the industry. It's not the Center Party, because it's important that we now take care of the transport industry as an industry. The use of cabotage legislation, the use of cheap foreign labour and illegalities related to vehicle requirements are a major threat to the Norwegian transport industry. Strengthening cooperation between the five state agencies of the State Road Administration, the police, the Tax Agency, the Labour Inspectorate and the customs services will be an important step towards unlocking unprofessional operators and lawbreakers in the transport industry. The centre party therefore looks positively at all measures that can help to clarify and, in particular, ensure that we have a Norwegian transport industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e442	We, too, in the Socialist Left Party, are very pleased with the unanimous vote that is taking place here today. This is an important theme of Norwegian business, for transport and not least for Norwegian work. The theme also included the previous government, the red-green, which in its time set up a partisan working group for the theme. They made recommendations in the direction that the proposal is based on and points to. As case President Wickholm took up his post, a good foundation work has been done here, among others. by the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association, the Trade Union, the NHO and the Norwegian Lastebileier-Federal. Fafo, too, has contributed and contributed. So the government can use a lot of what's already done when they're working on it. Because it's very important that we in this room guarantee a level playing field in the transport industry. It is good that there is increased control in line with the increasing amount of cabotage, which the government refers to has happened in recent years. Revenue from work carried out in Norway, carried out in Norway, must be paid to the State. It goes without saying that if all cross-border taxes are not to be taxed to any country, we will have problems maintaining a welfare state. So SV is very pleased with these unanimous proposals that lie ahead today. I see that they are agreed and look forward to following this important theme in the future, with some impatience.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e451	I have noticed that the Financial Committee is concerned about the development of the transport industry in connection with cabotage operations. Among other things, it has been shown that large differences in pay and working conditions give foreign operators a competitive advantage in the Norwegian transport market. As regards value added tax, it has been shown that the Financial Committee was informed at the hearing that both the conditions of competition and the loss of VAT revenue for the State are at stake. As Minister of Finance, I am also concerned about these issues. The starting point must be that if non-resident carriers operate domestically in Norway, i.e. cabotage, this should be done under the same tax conditions as our own carriers. Similar framework conditions will be met by our own carriers abroad if they operate cabotage operations in other countries. Carriers who supply their services in Norway and trade more than NOK 50000 shall comply with VAT legislation. If VAT is not invoiced, the customer will not receive any input VAT. For non-resident carriers, therefore, it is little to profit from avoiding the VAT code. However, compliance with this legislation is important and non-compliance by non-resident carriers may mask black activities and economic crime. The fight against such crime is taking the government seriously, and I show in this regard that in January the government put forward a strategy to strengthen its efforts against unprofessional actors in the world of work. As regards the need to monitor the scale of cabotage operations, I have suggested in my written opinion to the Committee that cabotage does not present significant challenges related to the avoidance of VAT. In my opinion, this argument cannot therefore justify resource-intensive monitoring alone. A survey will need to be assessed in cooperation with other departments concerned. When the Committee points out that foreign operators can camouflage cabotage as international transport and thus get refunded VAT on inputs, I would like to make it clear that there is no automaticity in this. It is necessary to apply for a refund of VAT. In addition to a confirmation that international transport and not cabotage operations are involved, invoices must be sent and the information set out in the annexes will give the case handler an impression of the activity. Similar schemes are offered to our own carriers in most of the countries in which they operate. In my opinion, the VAT legislation is adapted to the development of the transport industry. The challenges appear to be linked to legislation other than that which is isolated on value added tax. As indicated in the Committee's position, the Minister for Transport has asked, inter alia: The Ministry of Finance to assess measures in its fields to combat illegal cabotage operations. The background is a report from a department-appointed working group and industry input. Among other things, asked for an assessment of a more formalised cooperation between the State Road Administration, the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the customs office and the tax administration. In this context, a cooperative forum has been established between the different control modes. The Directorate-General for Road Transport is responsible for the group, which is working towards a common strategy in road transport. I think this is the way to go. Better cooperation between the control authorities involved could ensure compliance with the legislation on transport and cabotage activities in Norway. Having said that, I will, of course, take note of the Committee's recommendation and consider appropriate measures to combat tax evasion and prevent distortions of competition, and I will, of course, come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e472	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e475	The finance minister now answers much the same as she does in her letter to Stortinget, and she concludes by saying that she will take the requests seriously. However, I realized that what has happened from the Minister of Finance sent his letter of reply to the Stortinget, to this day, is that there is an overall increase that agrees on these measures. When the Minister of Finance says that there must also be other reasons to initiate extensive control activities, I understand that she is now receiving that reason, namely the decision of the Stortinge to do so. How, and in what way, does the Storting not want to get into, but we want things to be done properly and properly, in a good and effective way – as I know this government wants to emerge. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that she will follow the decision of the Storting in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e484	As I said at the end of my speech, the position of the Financial Committee and the decision of the majority in the Chamber will, of course, be followed up today. And let me just underline: questions about cabotage, I think we all agree is important to be able to find some good answers to. It is also important that we fight tax evasion, black work and black economy. This means that we need to work on a wide range of instruments, not just targeting this industry, but towards more industries, to both reveal and avoid this happening in the future. So we have the best intention of following up the Storting's decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e490	In one of his replies to the Storting, the Minister of Finance writes that the tax rate today does not have a numerical basis to say that it does not correspond to VAT. At the same time, we know that some of the problem here is that it is not recorded – it is reported. We hear stories about bus drivers who stay from May to September, but still do not get a turnover of NOK 50000 and have to register. So there's something between the reporting and the reality among the actors in the industry that there seems to be no match. I should have liked to have the Minister of Finance's confirmation that she would listen a little better to the industry and the actors out there the next time she writes the reply letter to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e495	This is not about not listening to the views that emerge. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that we all agree that there are quite serious claims being made, and that should be followed up. That's exactly why the control mechanisms that are being set up are important, because that's where we have the opportunity to understand what's actually happening. But in my comments to the Finance Committee, I have also obtained the professional evaluation of the issues raised by the Stortinget by the tax administration. The tax authorities have contributed to this. But that doesn't mean that the political attention around the problem isn't taken seriously, it definitely does, but then it's about using a different set of instruments to identify the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e500	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e518	Since the law called the Sex Purchases Act was passed by the Stortinget in 2008 and introduced in January 2009, there has been a constant bloating of high-level debates based on media postings, games from anti-law parties, and from the Pro Centret and other actors. At the same time, polls have consistently shown that a large majority of the population, 60–70 pst, has been in favour of the law, 20–25 pst. has been courageous and that part of the mood has remained relatively stable. The games that have come against the law have been little based on common knowledge and facts, and many of us were excited about what the great evaluation of the sex purchase law that came at the beginning of August last year would tell. After it came, the situation has changed in many ways. It may be significant that Højre’s mayor in Oslo, Stian Berger Røsland, wrote a very good article in the daily newspaper called Keep Sex Purchases Act. There was the conclusion to the head of the town council: ‘The evaluation should, in my view, make it more difficult to repeal the Sex Purchases Act than it was a few days ago. To build knowledge-based policies, Vista Analysis’s evaluation is a good starting point, and the conclusion should be that the law exists.’ The same position has been taken by central politicians in the other major cities. Among other things, Stavanger Right has gone in to maintain the law. In Trondheim, the group leader, Yngve Brox, has done the same, of course, together with the rapporteur in Trondheim. Right-wing rapporteur in Bergen, Trude Drevland, has also supported the opposition to repealing the law, just as Fabian Stag in Oslo, of course, has asserted the same position as his mayor. I highlight these because it tells us that in all four of our big cities, which have the big prostitution markets, there is a cross-political consensus and a large majority to keep the law, just as it is in the population. Fortunately, after the thorough evaluation came, there has become much more calm around the law. I hope it tells us that many of those who were strongly opposed have taken a thought break and looked more carefully through the content of their arguments. I hope they will be so thorough that they have read or read the evaluation carefully, are familiar with the persuasive, broad methods used by the heavy professionals who have conducted the evaluation, and are thinking about what comes out of arguments for and against the law. I want to go into some main points. The first concerns the market performance, the number of those involved in the prostitution market. There, the evaluation — after very extensive reviews of many types of facts from the measures taken in this area, from informers and from various surveys — states that the total prostitution market in Norway, both indoor and outdoor, has fallen by 22pst. compared to 2008. There's a broad discussion that lies behind the conclusion that I can't go into here, but that you can find in this thorough, big evaluation – that I had in my hand up here to feel that I have the security of the weight that's in it. Compared with a trend that has occurred in the other European countries and a trend that would have been likely from 2009 to this year or last year, it is estimated that there is a reduction of 45 pst. compared to 2013, without a legal ban and today’s enforcement of the Halik paragraph. This means that in the prostitution market in Norway, there is – if there are 22 psts. Compared to 2008, it is estimated that 800 fewer people sell sex. Taking into account developments after 2013, in line with developments elsewhere in Europe as estimated here, there are 1 300 fewer who sell sex and participate in the prostitution market, which is a significant decrease and which means a lot to those who would have been affected. If you take the street market directly, the field observations that were made on the street in Oslo by the Pro Center and others, it was found that it was about. 100 prostitutes out at given times in 2008, while in 2013 and 2014 the number was between 20 and 40 at similar times. On average, the Pro Center had observations of 32, so the decline in the street market in Oslo is described as 41-58 pst. in the report. It is also true that the experience of Sweden, where there has been peace around the law, where there has been a political consensus in cross-political terms between, say, all parties, shows that the decline has been greater, more stable. When, in 2009, compared with the six-buy markets in Denmark and Norway, the Swedish market was one tenth of Denmark’s and one eighth of Norway’s. As far as buyers are concerned, the report shows that informants and other sources say that there are fewer so-called handsome customers, fewer lunches, that it is less socially acceptable to buy sex, and that there are, in particular, younger men under the age of 35 – and even younger men, under the age of 25 – who are now very little buying sex compared to the past, and who have also changed attitudes, as attitude studies tell, which should be very much in line with the objectives we had with the law. As for the great goal that the Stortinget set for the law, that it should work to combat trafficking in human beings, the report states that Nadheim, the centre that works in this area, tells the majority of the foreign prostitutes are exposed to human trafficking. Reference is also made to a report to the European Parliament which states that in different European countries 15–90 pst. by those who are prostitutes, who work in the prostitution market, exposed to trafficking in human beings. So when one found in Oslo that of the 403 apartments where hallucinations had been stopped, it was only in three or four apartments there were Norwegian women, it is clear that a large proportion of those working on the prostitution market are likely, for example. Oslo – and similar conditions are described in Bergen – are subject to trafficking in human beings. It is therefore clear that a reduced market and the tools provided by the Sex Purchases Act to the police to detect trafficking in human beings are important for the development of this area. Those who work in human trafficking, and have the best results, Exit the project in Bergen and the previous STOP project in Oslo, say that the Sex Purchases Act is very important to them in order to build up criminal cases, in order to get facts, collect evidence and gather the basis for resolving cases, as they point to many examples in the report. The report also mentions the development of violence against prostitutes, where they go through the concerns surrounding it. They go through information that the market can be perceived as tougher, but at the same time have no indication of increased violence as a result of the Sex Purchases Act. They show figures on notifications and other matters there, and have gone through this with the informants and measures that work in this area. With regard to the situation of prostitutes, important measures have been taken for the means allocated by the government. It is called a multi-disciplinary operational team, the new action offering language courses, writing courses, work, education, practical arrangements, etc. To approach the landing in the first place, I would like to say that I hope these evaluations mean that the government believes it has got what it says on its platform, that it will have an evaluation, and that it will now help to bring peace around the law for a period of time, for example. into the next growing period, before launching new processes around the law, so that we can have a broader basis to assess the impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e551	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for the interpellation on an important topic. As the representative himself has been involved, the Government statement states that the Sex Purchases Act is to be evaluated and that it is to be ‘pre-sented on the basis of the evaluation’. The statement goes on to say: ‘The social policy instruments against prostitutes in a difficult situation shall be reinforced’. In August last year, an evaluation report was presented, which has also been used by the inter-pellant for some time in its interventions, and the Ministry of Justice and Defence is now working – in line with the Government Declaration – to establish a framework for the forthcoming enlargement. The Vista Analysis evaluation report contains assessments of the impact on prostitution markets of the ban on the purchase of sex introduced in 2009. The report makes it clear that it is difficult to provide precise answers in this area. When it is concluded that the amount of prostitution without legal amendment would have increased by 45 pst. in relation to the scope of the day, to which the representative also referred in his statement, the report stresses that the estimation has been made with a high degree of uncertainty. Otherwise, there is reason to remember that those who opposed a ban were concerned that women in prostitution would have an even more difficult situation than before. The evaluation report mentions that prostitutes experience a greater insecurity and reduced bargaining power in the street market. On the internal market, serving their customers outside their own apartment and/or hotel rooms poses a greater risk to prostitutes. The threshold for reporting a customer may have been raised by the fear of revealing to the police where you are doing prostitution, which may lead to the termination of the rental relationship. The report also recalls the need for measures to protect prostitutes and to protect those exposed to violence. Moreover, the evaluation report has not considered any possible market shifts that may have taken place, by the fact that the Nordics may choose to purchase sexual services abroad to a greater extent. In other words, the evaluation report provides a composite picture of the situation. It does not provide a clear answer to how to regulate prostitution in the future, as the interpellant suggests, even if the report concludes that the ban has had an effect. We are in an area where it is difficult to weigh various important considerations. It is not easy to create a legal situation in this area that is free of paradoxes. In spontaneous questioning on 29 January last year, the Prime Minister recalled that the ban was not imposed for moral reasons, but that the majority of the population had a expectation of better relationships for prostitutes and less trafficking in human beings. I think it is appropriate that the Storting discuss the challenges of prostitution in a broad context. This is why the government wants to have a big message about this field, where this evaluation from Vista Analysis and other evaluations will form an important basis. The Stortinget will then receive a good and thorough background material to carry out its discussions in this area. It is a long time since the Stortinget was presented with a background document that brings forward the relevant issues. A survey report will give an overview of today’s prostitution markets and, in particular, of the organisation of activities. In addition, the notification must explain the prevention, harm-reducing and rehabilitation of health and social work activities targeting persons in prostitution. The aim of the Communication is therefore to provide the Storting with a good basis for a wide-ranging debate on these issues. I would like to underline one more example from the report, on which the representative of Bohemia was involved, related to the decline in the overall scope of prostitution. It says in the report: ‘The overall decline in the level of prostitution — with a high degree of uncertainty — is estimated to be about 25 % compared to 2008.’» It once again underscores this point that this is not exactly science. While it is difficult to achieve a level of precision that is good enough, there is no doubt that this evaluation report provides a good basis for the government's work on the forthcoming big news.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e587	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. It is natural that, from different points of view of the law, many things can be seen in the report, because it is balanced. It's a thorough professional report that just shows that it's a composite picture, and it shows the uncertainty about many of the things that, of course, lie in observations and facts about the prostitution market. All the points that the Council of State mentions about what are uncertain factors are correct and are correctly taken from the report. However, my point is that there is no doubt in the report that there has been an effect – a decrease – on the size of the market. What they are very strong and sure about is that the Sex Purchases Act is a good tool for combating trafficking in human beings. That point did not comment so much on the Council of State. That is what the Greatness has put the greatest emphasis on – the fight against trafficking in human beings. The report emphasises that those who work in this field – the Exit Project in Bergen, which everyone at Stortinget has praised because it is where most of the human trafficking issues have been revealed – show by several very specific examples that the reason for the discovery of these human trafficking cases and the basis for bringing cases before the courts and getting some convicted is the Sex Purchase Act. It has provided tools for entering the market and e.g.: interrogate customers. In Trondheim, DNA is collected, etc. when customers are penalised, so as to provide a basis for resolving cases and for seeing wider contexts. Nor is there any doubt that when the market becomes smaller, fewer women are exposed to trafficking. Both Nadheim and the report to the European Parliament, as I mentioned, say that a large part of the foreign women who dominate the market in Norway are increasingly exposed to human trafficking. It is clear that when the market becomes smaller, there will also be fewer victims of trafficking in human beings. With regard to both the police operation and the development in general, with the number of women who may be exposed to this, the law will of course be an advantage. There is no doubt in the report. This is the most important point the Stortinget has stressed in terms of the basis for wanting to have the Sex Purchases Act. It was also this prime minister who stressed in the Storting in the round mentioned by the government council, Anundsen. The Prime Minister said you wanted to have a pragmatic relationship with the law. I hope it will also be the relationship of the Minister of Justice with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e602	I agree with the interpellant that there is a relatively balanced evaluation report that has come from Vista Analysis, and there are many elements that draw in different directions. It is clear that when we are going to work on the big message that I had in my main post, it is both the evaluations that the evaluation report provides, other types of information and other evaluation reports that are available, that will form the basis for the big message. There is no doubt that the human trafficking perspective was one of the important purposes behind the law when it was introduced in its time, and the analysis shows that it may have had a certain effect. In the end, I just want to say that I am a relatively pragmatic guy, but what is now the job is to provide a big message that will provide the Stortinget with a good basis for a debate on this ban. There is no doubt that both the Progress Party and other parties in this Chamber have been against the Sex Purchases Act as it is. But the government has undertaken to present a big message as a basis for a good debate in this area. I am attending that debate, and I think it is important that we not only get caught up in some types of arguments in this discussion, but that one has a broad approach to the issue. That is why I also look forward to the debate we are going to have in the Chamber today, which will be a contribution to the further discussion on these issues. But we're going to put forward a big message that's going to have an overall perspective on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e609	In meeting sex workers and prostitutes, there are many stories that make an impression. There is in particular one story that I think sums up the results of the Sex Purchases Act best. It was a woman who escaped to Norway when she feared for her own life from the mafia locally. Her meeting with the Norwegian police was a shock. Unlike her old country police, who cooperated with local mafia, the Norwegian police asked how she was doing. They asked if she had had any bad experiences, and warned against customers they had been noticed after episodes on the street and information from the others. The police helped to make our most vulnerable and vulnerable a little safer. This is in stark contrast to what I was told when I was at the Pro Center last year – about a woman who had come in to them strongly suggested and injured. They at first thought that she had been knocked up by a customer, but it turned out that she had jumped out of the window in the third floor when the police knocked on the door of the apartment she was in. So the Sex Purchases Act has turned the police from being someone who made an unsafe everyday a little safer, to someone who makes an unsafe everyday even more insecure. When you read the report from Vista Analysis, which I've done, this shows that the sex workers are now getting less money for more risky sales of sex to slimmer customers. In addition, Norway expects sex workers to pay taxes on income for sex sales. In other words, the state has become the worst hallucination of sex workers. They're supposed to have the money, but they don't offer any protection. When the report from Vista Analysis arrived, it showed that fewer people buy sex in Norway, and the followers cheered and called the law a success. But reduced sales of sex were never the intention of the law. In the debate in this room, it was clarified that the aim was to take traffickers. So we've reduced sex workers to a means of combating trafficking in human beings -- despite international migration research, and more and more are coming to -- shows that foreign sex workers are rarely forced or tricked into prostitution. They have deliberately chosen sex work in richer and safer countries because the alternatives are worse where they come from. It's with some surprise I hear the interpellant present the results of the report. The first criticism of the evaluation was the mandate and resources of the Red-Green Government. The mandate and resources were perceived as too narrow and too small, the project was perceived as unprofessional and led to the withdrawal of the best researchers and research communities in prostitution in Norway. The report is based, not on own Vista studies, but on several interim evaluations from other research communities, all of which are somewhat surprised at how their figures are abused both in the debate and in the report, and which also deeply disagree with the conclusions. Trafficking in human beings is serious – serious, organised crime that we all agree on must be persecuted and punished. But trafficking in human beings is pushed ahead in the debate on sex sales, and the law's adherents also do not want to distinguish between voluntary sex sales and coercion. For them, all are sacrifices—in any case. We have a law against trafficking in human beings. We have a law against coercion, violence and rape. This should be more than enough – we do not need the Sex Purchases Act as well. Several of these reports have several times established that the number of sex workers has not fallen significantly, but that it may vary slightly according to when you are out and counting. I hear the interpellant say in the report that there are about 20 street prostitutes on the street in Oslo. It's a little interesting, because last year, night to May 1, I was with Nadheim and the Church's City Mission and opened the nightclub for prostitutes in Oslo. Only during that evening, on the first day of the opening, without any information to anyone, without any campaigns and without any Facebook page with ‘come into the café’, there were about 50 women in that café. It was a pretty strong experience to join the evening prayer at noon. 3 at night until 1 May together with these women. Interpellant wants the Minister of Justice to ensure peace around the law. The Minister of Justice would have to do that, but I'm here first and foremost to make sure that both the inter-pellant and the minister know that we are many who are going to continue to work against a discriminatory law that makes an already vulnerable group even more vulnerable. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister of Justice wants a wide-ranging debate on the forthcoming big message. I would like to welcome that debate more than warmly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e630	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue. I am among those who look forward to the big message that will come, both because I believe the Sex Purchases Act is of course working, and because we have all agreed that the Sex Purchases Act is one of the measures. Independently, social measures are needed to help those in need of help and who are prostitutes. And there has to be more work to help victims of human trafficking out of prostitution. To the previous speeches, and in particular what goes on in the view of the police, and how one experiences the police: I think we can be cross-political in agreement that regardless of the law is some of the points that it is not forbidden to sell sex, that the police should be an ally of the prostitutes. I see it so that the police should be the prostitute's best friend and helper. If the police act differently, there is a problem that the Minister of Justice must also be concerned about and addressing, because the police are to help vulnerable people. If they are subjected to violence or otherwise, it shall be fully possible to contact the police and, of course, to obtain the assistance they need. I record that the representative Nordby Lunde is very far away from – at least it feels that way – that many prostitutes are victims of human trafficking. I will be honest and admit that it is not so easy to prove that there are so many or so many percentages, even though the interpellant also refers to the report of the European Parliament, which showed a high number. But regardless of this, we know that there are some victims of human trafficking who are prostitutes and who are forced into prostitution. We can't afford that either. I just want to refer to the work done in Hordaland by the Exit group, with Rudolf Christoffersen at the head. What they're discovering is that when someone like the police meets prostitutes, these will at least very rarely admit that they're victims of human trafficking, precisely because there's a big risk associated with it. That is why, through the good work done by the group, half of the human trafficking sentences are in Hordaland, because they handle it in a good way. That's also why the cooperation parties have prioritised copying the work done in Hordaland to the five largest cities, because we want to intensify the fight against trafficking in human beings, which we all agree on. So a little bit for the evaluation. The evaluation came at an early stage. At the same time, however, the evaluation showed that the horrors that prostitutes would be subjected to more violence did not vote. There has been no more violence. It is an important and joyful fact that the evaluation shows. Then it also shows that the number of prostitutes is reduced, and there are fewer backers. Therefore, I believe this shows that at least the law has not been bad – as part of the opponents thought in advance. On the contrary, I believe it works. But perhaps the most important thing a law à la sexbuyer law is about is what matters to attitudes, because it is change of attitude that is crucial. There will be no market if there is no demand for buying sex. There will be no one who is the victim of human trafficking, and who is sold to prostitution, if there is no demand for buying sex. Unfortunately, in Norway we have not received very good, documentable figures, but one can look to Sweden, where the law has worked any longer. There is one obvious fact that there has been a clear change in attitude. There are fewer young men who think it's okay to buy sex. If we see the same trend also in Norway, it shows that we have succeeded well along the way. That's why I want to ask you questions about the opposite. If one removes the law, what will the consequence of that be? What will the signal effect of that be? It would be a long way to go saying that it's perfectly okay for young men to buy sex, even though we know that part of the prostitutes -- and notice, I don't say all, but I say some -- are victims of human trafficking, or at least sell sex as the last resort, because they don't have any other way of getting income. So at least we can discuss the voluntary level of that. I see the time passing, but I just want to refer again to the work done in Hordaland. Rudolf Christoffersen, who has been leading the Exit Group for a long time, has said in the past: ‘The police and prosecution authorities in Hordaland consider the Sex Purchases Act to be an important tool for combating trafficking in human beings.’ From 2003 to 2008, there were five judges for trafficking in human beings who were rightful. The next five years were 33, almost all right-wing. At least it shows that the Sex Purchases Act is in the process of getting more convicted for trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e657	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate in Stortinget. This is a theme that often arouses feelings, and many have strong opinions about it. But in such a debate, it's okay to stick to reality and research as well, and that's what I think the representative of Bohemia is doing in a very good way in his speech. I found it particularly interesting to hear about the experience from Sweden, for my own part. The Sex Purchase Act is a very important law. Not only is it anti-crime, it is also largely holding. We in the Center Party see no reason to change or repeal this law, which we believe works well. We're not going to go back many years in time to remember that moving in the Oslo Centre could be very offensive. In the main street of the city, about every body that came walking, was offered to buy sexual services, and there was an unsustainable situation. But this is not a law introduced to shield pass-by from discomfort. The main point is the individuals who are forced to sell their own bodies, and how we're going to end prostitution and trafficking in human beings. The human body is not a commodity. It is a principle that is also important to establish in the form of law, and I have to say that I am both disappointed and surprised at the parties that cast doubt on the future of the law on sex. Quite rightly, it has our reactions from some environment, but in all material things, our promises have been very positive. A significant argument is that the police are very satisfied with the laws. It has been an important tool to combat trafficking in human beings, the exploitation of women and other crime. Then there's a question of whether much of the environment has gone underground as a result of the laws. But I believe that the law has made it possible for the police to also fight against this form of action. This is also about police methods and priorities. It is safe to have evidence that at least there was no more choice, so it was warned in advance. I hope the plurality of Stortinget in the future will calm down the promises. In any case, the centre party is fully aware that the law on sex is to be passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e674	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important topic in this matter. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for a very balanced reflection on a non-black-and-white theme, and there are many points to consider. There is no doubt that the results of this report point unequivocally to the fact that the law has helped to reduce the level of prostitution. There may be a methodological uncertainty in the report – as in any research report – but I do not think this should be over-emphasised. Other reports point in the same direction. I would like to mention Kripos’s trend analysis, which came a short time ago. It tells of prostitutes who, through confinement, rape and other gross violence, are subjected to the most inhumane control mechanisms of their backers. Several police districts also point to the increase in prostitution in some districts, evidence of organised crime and trafficking in human beings. Here are several reports that reveal the same context as the report we are discussing today. The size should be concerned that the laws adopted should have a normative effect, that the law should affect society in the desired direction. Then you can discuss whether prostitution is a phenomenon that society sees as a ‘good’ that legislation wants not to stimulate, so at least say something about what you don’t want. It's raised above any doubt that prostitution is doing something with man and with relationships between people. There's also something the Storting has to take over. It is said that this is the oldest profession in the world. Possibly so, but the oldest profession in the world seems to be changing and related to a type of organized crime that we want to combat by as much as possible, because of the sad consequences this brings to society. Prostitution today, as the reports describe it, is closely linked to this type of organized crime, which we simply don't want in society. This is a matter for which Stortinget must absolutely stay. I look forward, Minister and President, to being able to go into this more closely when the paper is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e685	I would like to thank the representatives of Ropstad, Klinge and, last but not least, the Elves. What Mr Elvenes said about the results of the report clearly points to the fact that the law has helped to reduce the scope, and that legislation should have a normative effect, is in line with the central urban politicians of the Right in both Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger say, those who work and have experience in this, who are local political leaders, and who, together with the other major parties in these cities, at least together with the Workers' Party and several other parties, constitute a large cross-political majority in the cities where this is most topical. So I was happy about Elvenes’ posts. Ropstad followed up and talked about the same theme, that changes in attitudes are important, because there will be fewer victims of trafficking in human beings when the market becomes smaller. I would like to add to what the Robstad said, that it is one of the other points, in addition to the effect on trafficking in human beings, which is doubtful in the report – according to all the information on which they are based – that fewer young men buy sex and that attitudes have changed there. That's very promising for the future. Stian Berger Røsland, mayor of Oslo, says in his chronicle about this: ‘The evaluation suggests that the law has had a normative effect so far and Vista Analysis demonstrates that fewer young men buy sex.’ I believe that this change of attitude among men is important. What signals will we send to young men if the law is reversed? It's a question that should be addressed by those who are now going to abolish the Sex Purchases Act, and this signal I hope to go heavily into the government from the inter-political environment in Oslo, which stands for that position. With regard to Heidi Nordby Lunde's arguments, I would say that what I pointed out about the number of prostitutes on the street in Oslo at certain times, built one and only on the field observations, a separate curve in the report. Pro Centret’s field observations are underlying, i.e. the street market in Oslo has been reduced by 41-58 pst at comparable times. I think that anyone who moves down Karl Johan in the evening time now and compares with previous years can clearly observe with their own eyes. I am also glad that Ropstad disagreed with Heidi Nordby Lunde that it is rare that those who are on the prostitution market are forced into prostitution, but that there are conscious choices. I believe that until those degrees are in conflict with what those who are investigating the field are telling, whether it is the police, Nadheim, who is a very well-recognized measure here in Oslo, or the report to the European Parliament. It is really quite alarming that, after all that has emerged around human trafficking — 239 cases in Norway in 2012 — it can be said that trafficking in human beings is rarely linked to the prostitution market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e701	I would like to thank you for a good but relatively short debate. I think the debate also shows that there are a number of dilemmas to be addressed in the further work on a government announcement. But I think it's important to remember, based on some of the last speeches, that the purpose of the prohibition, as it's also been mentioned from the pulpit before, is not that this should be a moral condemnatory law. That's not what's behind it, the background for that big number was that you wanted to see consequences in other areas. Then I just need to comment on the example taken by the representative Nordby Lunde regarding the police's work and their relationship with the prostitutes. I think it's hard to conclude that the police work has turned completely on their heads, and that they are now the worst enemy of the prostitutes, based on one example. My impression of the police's work is that they have a broad approach to this. It's not a sale that's forbidden. They work, as I have seen it, very closely with many of the prostitutes to help secure a safer everyday life. Then you definitely want some of the results of this ban that make it possible to get some single events that are unfortunate. There is no doubt that, in particular, perhaps in the internal market, the pressure that some people will feel in relation to the lessor etc. could lead to the perception that it is more conflicty in some areas. But I don't think it's right that a general should say that the police are now considered to be some sort of enemy of the prostitutes. That's not the approach I've seen that the police have, and I just want to warn you that the impression is from the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e711	The debate on substance is closed. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e727	When I participate in bioeconomy discussions, there are often four industries being developed. It's health, marine, agriculture and forestry and industry. Nevertheless, I had to limit myself to just asking questions to a Council of State, and the elections to the Minister of Fisheries. But when the government comes along with both the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Agriculture, I'm excited. There is evidence that the government prioritises the theme of bioeconomy, and I think that is good. It is good because the OECD, the EU and other key actors expect the bioeconomy to become a central theme and an important area of economic growth in the coming years. Here in the main hall, there are several opportunities for the nation to have more legs on it and to make us less dependent on high oil prices and investment in the oil sector in order to maintain our welfare community. Over the last 40 years, the oil sector has played a major role in the economic development of Norway, and more evidence suggests that it will be less profitable to extract our remaining oil reserves. Norway also needs new competitive industries. I think Norway needs to benefit from the economic space we have to participate in the third industrial revolution in which we have a competitive advantage. Seas and forests are open to competition. If we are to be closed down by increasing the value creation and potential of bioeconomy, new areas for the use of existing raw materials in the marine, agricultural and forestry sectors are crucial. Before the bioeconomy a significant international research effort and industrial strategic positioning is taking place in this area. In Germany, they have both a research strategy and a policy strategy to promote the bioeconomy. In Norway, we have been looking for a strategy, but it is very encouraging to record that the government has decided to develop such a bioeconomy strategy. There's a lot of research, industrial and other important projects going on, so seeing things in context in a strategy that I think is a good measure. On Friday 6 February, the government also adopted the creation of the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy. This is taking a good look at it, and the government hastens praise for this. Recently, the Right also organized a seminar here at the Stortinget on bioeconomy. Many stakeholders from both research environments, different companies and organisations. Commonly, everyone had ambitions and confidence in new opportunities for better resource use and use of biological raw materials in new industrial processes. At the seminar, we presented the company Borregaard, which was once an important paper industry company, but which, after successful conversion, has moved into the bioeconomy, and now is a global leader in the production of bio-based chemicals and other high-quality bio-products. All of this is based on a new and better exploitation of the timber from the forest. There are a number of people who think that the focus must be on the industrial potential of modern biochemistry and biotechnology. There is a great potential for value creation here, and it is important that the focus is not on the raw materials, but rather on the industrial processes that can be based on these raw materials. Nature's photosynthesis has us free of charge as a resource, but we must have ambitions to use the raw materials we have for more industrial use. That's exactly what characterizes the potential of the bioeconomy, i.e. new industrial uses of raw materials. There is also a significant potential in the use of marine areas in a modern bioeconomy. In Mongstad, Hordaland, an artificial algae cultivation project has been launched using oil refinery CO2 waste. In the Eyeyard just west of Mongstad there is a project for the cultivation of tunic animals. Both of these projects can contribute to new ingredients for feeding to e.g. salmon and aure farming. Marine ingredient industry has grown widely in the Bergens region and has adopted biotechnological methods such as: enzyme technology. This also opens up to forward-looking investment in the new bioeconomy, where we use biological resources from land and sea and residual raw materials from production. This will be useful in forward-looking, resilient industries such as: biorefining of marine feedstock not directly used for food. Examples here are residues from the salmon industry that are converted into food for micro-organisms, which are useful for producing everything from medicines to chemicals that are building blocks in bio-based plastics. In my own municipality, we have the company Biomega, which uses residual raw material and the salmon industry's crops to produce high-quality bioproduct and marine minerals, various oils, protein and dietary supplements. This company joined Borregaard in a national research project with six research institutes. A total of 42 research years have been carried out in this project, and the project frame is over 50 million. kr. The University of Bergen is involved in bio-prospecting organisms that live in hot sources on the seabed. This project was awarded the best of 64 applications for the BIOTEK2021 programme in the Research Council. The aim is to develop an enzyme for the use of biomass within wood and residues from fisheries and aquaculture. Work on new feed sources for both fish and livestock got a good boost at the end of last year, when the Research Council supported the establishment of Foods of Norway, a research-driven innovation centre. The exciting thing here is that one also considers wood as a potential high-quality protein source for feed. If we are to have increased food production in Norway of both fish and meat in a viable way, without using too much raw material for human food for animal feed, we must have other sources of feed. In Norway, 1,8 million tonnes of animal feed and 1,6 million tonnes of fish feed are produced annually. As you know, there are ambitions to double the value of the aquaculture industry. This may require more feed from new raw material sources and feed based on viable feed sources. There are several people who think Norway claims to be in the blue segment of the bioeconomy. Norwegian biotechnological industries in the marine ingredient industry are world-leading. Nevertheless, we are pleased to see the great boom of new industrial enterprises before this part of industry and the bioeconomy. One of the challenges of creating new growth within the bioeconomy is the challenges we face in commercialising new ideas and research results. They get the start-up companies we have, tired of getting enough risk capital. To address these challenges, it is important to create an environment where there is good and attractive access to the inputs to be provided. The initiative for the government and the cooperation party on new seed funds is a good tool. Important is also the work done in Innovation Norway. Although research at universities is important, I believe that the most important innovation is taking place in companies. The marine ingredient environment along the coast has grown strongly through good clustering between universities, research, suppliers and customers. The interaction between research and the business environment is thus important in order to generate nutrient growth in the bio-industries. This part of industry is young, and more players lack both culture and competence in market innovation and branding. Therefore, the clusters we have are very important to build on. Bioresources are very useful. If we are able to develop and exploit this potential, Norway can contribute to addressing global challenges related to the production, consumption, processing, storage and recycling of biological resources. This can create new economic growth and development. So much is happening within the bioeconomy, and it has a great potential. As you can see, both the United States and the EU have strategies for this, and I also understand that the government has agreed that they should also develop a strategy. I would like to ask both government councils: what is the status of the work on the bioeconomy in Norway, and what will the government do to facilitate Norway's becoming a central industrial nation, with the potential of the bioeconomy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e764	The interpellant addresses an important issue in relation to the conversion of Norwegian business. The government is committed to facilitating the most adaptable and competitive business in a situation in which businesses face major global societal changes related to climate and environmental challenges, access to resources, demographic changes, oil price reductions, to name a few. Measures to facilitate new and innovative industries will be essential to strengthen green competitiveness and make the Norwegian economy less vulnerable to fluctuations in price and demand in the petroleum sector. An appropriate measure is to facilitate the development of a bioeconomy, where future value creation is based on the sustainable use of renewable biological material, which will contribute to addressing environmental, climate, health and food security challenges. It is possible to increase the use of traditional bio-products to replace more resource-intensive or oil-based products. At the same time, recent research provides opportunities for more sustainable, efficient and profitable production and use of bio raw materials. A number of countries, including The United States, Finland, Germany and the EU have developed their own bioeconomy strategies and see significant employment growth and value creation in this type of production in the years to come. The OECD even sees that the bioeconomy will be a key element of Europe's economy within 40 years. Norway has natural resources and a competence base that is well-suited to exploit this potential, and through targeted and coordinated efforts, Norway can be an important contributor to the development of the new bioeconomy. Although bioeconomy is a relatively new concept in Norway, it has been working on this topic for a long time within our research institutions. The theme has been particularly relevant to marine research institutions. Let me, for example. mention SINTEF Fisheries and aquaculture in seaweed, NIVES with new sources of feed, IRIS, which has been developing feed and substance from natural gas, the University of Northern Ireland works with microalgae that can store CO2, and Nofima in Tromsø operates the national marine biorefining centre and develops, among others. industrial processes for red-eating. Within institutions for forestry and agriculture, there are also many initiatives. In the bioeconomy, efforts have been made for a long time to increase the value creation of existing raw materials, to develop new raw materials sources and products, to reduce catches, harvests and production stages and to sustain sustainability in a broad sense. A recent interesting development is that researchers in the ‘blue’ and ‘green’ sectors, respectively, are increasingly identifying issues common to the two sectors. In this context, I am pleased to have the opportunity to highlight the efforts of Norway's environmental and life sciences universities at Ås. The government has great expectations of its effect in the years to come. The new university could become an important tool for the development of Norwegian bioeconomy once it is completed in 2018. In addition to the establishment of the new university, a modern laboratory building will also be established for the Veterinary Institute which is in line with the latest EU standards in this area. With an investment framework of more than 6 billion. This represents a heavy national investment in the bioeconomy. This initiative is at a crossroads between aquaculture, livestock, fish and animal health and food competence that is relatively unique to Norway. In the short term, this unique trade combination could develop into an international centre for blue-green bioeconomy. As the representative of Ove Trellevik pointed out, the university has already received a research-driven innovation centre, called Foods of Norway, within this very field. We also see a tearing development of a new type of biochemical industry based on the further processing of biological raw materials and by-products from land and sea. In the field of industrial biotechnology, biologically based inputs are used together with biological and process engineering principles in the production of, inter alia, chemicals, enzymes, materials and bioenergy. This will allow us to develop new production methods and products in very different sectors — food and feed, fine chemicals, cosmetics, textiles, paper and wood processing, polymers, plastic products and energy. The transition to biotechnological processes can be an environmentally friendly alternative that reduces the number of by-products and reduces the consumption of energy and water. Borregaard is probably the largest industrial player in the Norwegian market and represents a diversity of research and products. The company is one of the world’s most advanced biorefineries and world leaders in developing and using timber as a starting point for raw materials, which in turn is the starting point for products for pharmaceuticals, food, fish feed, biofuels and other chemical-technical applications, as well as concrete and building-related products. In addition, the company is the world's largest producer of 2nd generation bioethanol. We also have national schemes that support the bioeconomy of the instrumentation. Innovation Norway has already concentrated a bioeconomy effort around the so-called biorefining programme, and the Research Council has among other things. programmes such as BIOTEK2021, the Marine Programme, BIONARY, ENERGY and the Sea and the Coast, which could support the development of Norwegian bioeconomy. Norway also participates in international research cooperation in the field, including: in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, and through the Nordic Council of Ministers, where bioeconomy is also an important topic. A significant effort has already been made to strengthen the knowledge base of the future bioeconomy. These include: an assessment of the technico-economic potential for industrial development based on strategically important Norwegian raw materials, such as seaweed, wood pulp and natural gas. I have also recently received an investigation of barriers to the development of the bioeconomy, which will provide a good basis for the further work of the government. An analysis of the potential for value creation in agricultural bioeconomy will also be initiated. It is also working to look at how the Norwegian bioeconomy can be integrated and developed in cooperation with our neighbouring countries. For the treatment of Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015 saw a need for a bioeconomy strategy by the majority of the Business Committee. Such a strategy should, in the opinion of the Committee, be developed in 2015 and ‘in cooperation between industry, organisations and the government’. The majority also requested that ‘the actions of the bioeconomy strategy need to be funded in the 2016 budget’. The Government has found that there is a broad political consensus to develop a bioeconomy strategy and will follow up the comments of the Business Committee. To this end, the Government aims to develop a bioeconomy strategy during 2015 and, in this context, will provide for close dialogue and constructive cooperation with industry, organisations, research institutions and other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e797	The government attaches great importance to measures that can strengthen the mainland economy, stimulate value creation and secure future Norwegian jobs. Bioindustries, with primary production and related industries, are a central part of this. A bioeconomy strategy will be an important measure to strengthen the role of bio-industries in the Norwegian economy. As knowledge has been crucial for productivity growth and further development of primary industries, knowledge is the cornerstone of the bioeconomy. Knowledge of biological contexts and technology development will provide an important basis for enterprises that base their activities on the exploitation and further processing of renewable biomass from the sea, forest and agriculture. However, the success of Norway in the bioeconomy requires close cooperation between research environments, businesses and professional organisations — and a business life that seizes the opportunity. The government's commitment to the commercialisation and strengthening of the tools and arenas that transform knowledge into good innovations is an important step for the further development and understanding of the bioeconomy. The government's commitment to these types of instruments results, including in the bio-based industries. Among other things, we see: a record increase to SkattenFUNN, a scheme that allows enterprises to deduct research and development costs from the tax – approx. 20 pst. increase compared to 2013. In 2014, SkattenFUNN had over 4,800 active projects. Budgeted project costs amounted to a total of 16.2 billion. kr, with a budgeted tax deduction of SEK 2,7 billion. kr. Bioindustries show an increasing interest in exploiting this possibility. In 2014, there were nearly 900 active projects in the areas of sea, agriculture and forests. Projects that receive or have received funding from the SkattenFUNN include several projects that contribute to the development of the bioeconomy in Norway. The small Toten company Selmer Entwicklung AS has used SkattenFUNN to further develop its business. By further processing of second-sorting products and residues from the green sector, the company recovers raw materials that are often discarded. They turn waste into saleable products. This means higher use of the raw material, less production waste and better profitability for the enterprise. At the same time, environmental impacts are reduced as a result of the elimination of the need for costly destruction and/or landfilling. Circuit thinking and better use of resources, including: reducing food waste is an important part of the bioeconomy. The company Kebony AS is another good example of innovation-promoting instruments producing results. With the support of the SkattenFUNN scheme and the BIA programme of the Research Council, the company has developed a patented method that allows the use of agricultural plant waste in wood impregnation fluids. The method ensures that Nordic wood is as robust as tropical wood, without the use of environmentally and health-harmful substances. Kebony's wood is used in total from facades, boat decks and terraces to large-scale projects such as Kragerø Spa & Resort and Farris Bad and clean design projects such as the pavilion group KREOD in London. The company has received a number of prices for its business and currently has 60 employees and an annual turnover of more than 100 million. kr. The Minister for Fisheries mentioned the importance of the investment on Campus Ås for the bioeconomy in Norway. The environment built on Ås, with Norway's environmental and life sciences universities, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, Nofima and the Veterinary Institute, will be attractive for both studies, research and work on innovation. Such a leading environment will provide a boost to the reputation of the bio industry, increased recruitment of skilled professionals and more innovation in industries. The Ås environment will thus be a key driver of the Norwegian bioeconomy. The Minister of Fisheries also mentioned the new research-driven innovation centre at Ås. The issues to be addressed at this centre will be important for both the blue and the green sectors. Under the name Foods of Norway, competent researchers, in close cooperation with their business partners, shall develop new feed products based on biomass from forest, agriculture and sea – biomass which are in itself unfit for food. Both globally and nationally, there is a high need for protein of good quality for use in animal and fish feed. In Norway, the need for protein raw materials is largely met by soya protein, mainly through imports of soya beans from Brazil. Foods of Norway will make an important contribution to Norway’s growing ability to base its food production on national resources. At the same time, this centre will be able to provide the basis for a new type of industry and new profitable industries in the bioeconomy. The bioeconomy is a good starting point for the further development of the forest and wood industries. Today, a much larger proportion of Norwegian timber goes to export than just a few years ago. Exports may be important and appropriate to ensure the disposal of all the range, but we are not worthy of the fact that the forest industry ends up as a pure commodity exporter. We have a resource base that allows us to have good opportunities to develop the forest and wood industry. In addition, we have knowledge and competence to use the resources we have. Borregaard, on which both the Minister for Fisheries and the inter-pellant were involved, is a good example of what innovative businesses can do. So much as 18 pst. the company's turnover comes from products not found five years ago. The SKOG22 report is a good and well-established input from the forest and wood industries and will be an important premiscible both for the government’s work on the bioeconomy strategy and for the preparation of a communication on agriculture and a communication on forestry. It is natural that these works are seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e841	I have to thank the Council of State for their good and additional answers. Both state councils testify that the sitting government is taking seriously the challenges and opportunities of the bioeconomy. I'm particularly busy with the blue bioeconomy and the HAV21 report, which was the basis for the maritime food report The world's leading maritime state from the previous government. It shows what knowledge is needed to develop the global position within marine nutrition and seafood. Norway is the world's second largest producer of seafood, only China is larger, and we have many good clusters in Norway. In Tromsø there is a great deal happening, we heard the Council of State Elisabeth Aspaker say, and in the Ålesunds region it is a significant marine ingredient industry. The Minister of Agriculture highlighted the environment in Ås, which is very important for the bioeconomy. The largest breeding company has its head office in the region of Bergens, and they account for 60 pst. of the world’s salmon production. The mountain is also the center of marine research and fisheries management in Norway. The University of Bergen is known internationally for its marine research, and Bergen is the host city of the Marine Research Institute, NIVES, NHH, Uni Research, Nansensenteret and not least Health Bergen. All of these are important actors in the bioeconomy, and the research environment accounts for more than half of the Norwegian marine R & D effort. The most important research actors are gathered in Bergen marine research clusters. This makes Bergen look like the thirteenth most important marine research city globally, measured in produced scientific articles. Together with business and innovation actors such as Bergen Technology Transfer, Sarsia Seed, Sarsia Innovation and Sarsia Development, this is a chain from research to business start-ups. Such cluster collaboration is the very foundation for the growth of the bioeconomy. The close interaction of competences, capital, research and product development gives this competitive advantage. The project A knowledge-based Norway, led by Professor Torger Reve, determines that closeness to competitive universities, environment with many international knowledge staff and infrastructure is important and decisive for future value creation. One of the challenges in Bergen, as I understand it, is the need to co-locate parts of the research and management environment within the marine sector. This has itself been the responsibility of the research community in several contexts. A major co-location of the Marineholm Marine Research Institute, Nofima and NIFES had strengthened the environment in Bergen. Several companies experience the bottleneck for more industrialisation and commercialisation, and we do not have a state of the art pilot plant – a test facility – to process in the marine bioeconomy [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e860	I'm sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e863	The HAV21 report states that this is important to bring with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e868	The inter-pellant has three minutes later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e871	An important milestone in the mobilisation of bioeconomy in Norway was the conference organised by Innovation Norway and the Research Council last September. At that conference, which was very well visited, the focus was on the interaction between the blue and green sectors, and the aim of the conference was to raise the awareness of business, knowledge environments and the public about the concept of bioeconomy and the new opportunities associated with the bioeconomy. As I was in my first post, we have particularly good assumptions in Norway with the natural resources we have to be able to use them even within a bioeconomy effort. The representative Trellevik referred to Bergen and Ålesund, but I think we can hang on – we have already mentioned Ås – Tromsø, the University of Nordland and many more. In fact, we are so lucky in Norway that we have a lot of highly advanced knowledge environments that can help us really get to grips with this kind of initiative in Norway. For the sector I am responsible for, I am more than aware that we have seen some opportunities today, but there are many undiscovered opportunities in the blue field. It means that when we get more solid legs to stand on in the future, it is actually so that the marine sector in Norway can become much bigger, and it can also evolve to become much more diverse in the future. I want to say that the Research Council is already using about 1 billion. EUR per year for bioeconomy-related research, and further work is being done on how to combine instruments to bring about an impact on the bioeconomy. It is important when the good ideas come, to ensure that we get projects from a research stage to commercialisation and to create jobs in Norway. Innovation Norway launched its bioeconomy initiative in 2013 and has built around specialised schemes such as the Biorefining Programme and the Eco-Technology Scheme, with a budget of 40 million. SEK to 25 projects under the Bioeconomic Programme and 133 million. kr to 29 marine projects under the environmental technology programme. It's already done a lot, so we have a great starting point in Norway to be able to further develop and build a big bioeconomy based on the natural resources we have available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e884	I have to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic and also notice that it was a glittering application for a summer job as a Bergens guide that was delivered in the last article. It'll be all right. I also want to say something about the colormap in the hall. It is not that the whole spectrum is here, but at least we can interpret it in such a way that the important voices are present on the list of speakers when we discuss the theme of bioeconomy. The drop in oil prices and the uncertainty in the energy industry have led to an increased debate on what kind of industries we can borrow from in Norway. What are we going to live on after the oil? is, in my opinion, a somewhat unexplained question, all the time when the oil age is not very close. But the recession opens up another debate, a multiplicity of debate, which perhaps raises the perspective of eternity and renewables in a different way and makes it a little more understandable. The right is working a lot on what can become tomorrow's gold industries for Norway, and bioeconomy is one of these fields. Bioeconomy is nothing new. Already during World War II, researchers had focused heavily on the resource they called the universal resource. Photo synthesis is the basis of all life and will be the foundation of a society that has sustainability as one of its most important and established values. Both forests and seas will play a significant role here. Prime Minister Erna Solberg said early that farming could become Norway’s IKEA, in order to demonstrate the potential of aquaculture. An additional observation will be that IKEA has many products in three, and the IKEA metaphor can also show how to link the management of a completely central land resource such as forest to growth in the aquaculture industry. Now the research suggests that we can have the first ‘grain salmon’ on the table within a few years – salmon that is more or less aerated on feed made of wood. One thing is that just the thought of fish eating three is amazing. Another thing is that here we see a fantastic link between climate, sustainability and management of a land resource and a marine and district resource in a particularly important growth industry. At the Bioeconomy – the new oil? in mid-March, many interesting research environments, businesses and organisations took part. Common to all of them was that they showed optimism and confidence in the future and were ambitious on behalf of this industry. We have noticed that in the Right, and we will also be involved in facilitating this kind of progress and optimism. Previous mentioned Borregaard’s successful turn of business focus from traditional paper industry to a global operator based on the production of biobased chemicals is an important and good example of follow-up. The potential for making use of bioresources is considerable. If we do that, we in Norway can help solve global challenges related to production, consumption, processing, storage and recycling of biological resources. The photosynthesis is the support of all life. Its power has been taken for granted and can be ignored. That's what the scientists are telling us. The government has ambitions for sustainability and the bioeconomy. A strategy is to be developed, but the most important thing is action that has already been taken, through the pooling of research institutions – a drivelift that is being made, focusing on research in the field. Are we now on the threshold of a new epoch? Well, it's hard to say, but the recession in such a highly skilled and capital-intensive industry as the oil and energy industries at least opens up great opportunities for other industries. My prediction is that we will now see a shift from energy to sea food, to bioeconomy and to the mineral industries. That's why the Right organises an open seminar here at the Stortinget on April 14. The theme is the cultivation of tea and the possibilities this opens up for when we talk about new value creation for the future. What are the political bottlenecks that need to be overcome so that Norway can develop a new economy based on the cultivation of seaweed? We have, in cooperation with Sintef, collected expertise in the cultivation, harvesting and further processing of seaweed. Biopower, biopolymer and biotech are key to the seminar. How to create a new policy that facilitates a new industry, which facilitates a new economy and new value creation with marine photosynthesis as the basis? That's the question we're asking ourselves. New industries, new economies in the perspective of renewables and eternity can actually be the result when we get the answer some time or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e907	Norway has large natural resources linked, inter alia, to: agriculture, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture. The Progress Party believes that, in the future, we need to make greater use of these resources, with a view to developing profitable industries and bio-based petroleum substitutes. Biomass can provide food and energy and replace, or be a supplement, many of the products we today store of oil. An important challenge in the future will be to strengthen the development of other parts of the economy. We recognize that we are facing a transformation. But that doesn't mean that the oil industry won't be important for a long time to come. The party of progress will not in any way talk down on the oil industry, on the contrary. It will continue to be a very important industry for Norway for many years. Here we shall be clear and predictable, including in the case of Norwegian petroleum policy. With increasing international competition for framework conditions and more mobile capital, it is important to pursue an industrial policy that makes it profitable and attractive for enterprises to operate in and from Norway. It is important to focus on investment in research and development. The government will strengthen measures to stimulate increased innovation-oriented research and development efforts in and for industry. We are committed to giving priority to nationwide instruments and further developing instruments with the highest innovation impact. The Progress Party also wants a more growth-enhancing and simpler tax system. Tax relief makes it more profitable to work, save and invest. Such a tax policy will have a good impact on value creation and income over time. A simpler interaction between business and the public will release valuable time both in enterprises and in administration. The focus of the Progress Party and Government on reducing taxes on wealth is very important to ensure innovation and the development of future value creation. Forestry is a bioeconomy. Norwegian forests and wood industries can contribute significantly to increased value creation and employment in Norway while helping to meet the global climate challenge. It is a strategically important industry for Norway, which can be further developed through long-term interaction between industry actors, research institutions, authorities and other industries. Norwegian forests cannot stand and rot on their roots, so the effort to develop the forest road network is important. We have to access our resources. Increased investment in railways and berths and the removal of bottlenecks on public roads are also important. On 1 July, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy is hereby established. The Norwegian agricultural and food sectors need effective environments of competence and research in order to develop competitive products and services and to meet other societal needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e925	The representative Hill-Jensen called for all the color shades. I felt that it was in place that the Center Party also took the word. Man-made climate change threatens the livelihood of future generations. The shift from fossil to green energy sources is a green shift that is absolutely necessary to limit the extent of climate change. The fight for a better environment requires everyone to make an effort. Good attitudes, awareness of environmental problems and adequate knowledge are important prerequisites for environmental sustainability. The use and management of energy resources, which may be one of the most important possibilities we have for doing the green shift, requires full and long-term investment. We have a responsibility to meet the energy needs of society, and this, in the view of the Centre Party, must be done in a sustainable way. The centre will therefore stimulate growth in industries with a long-term positive impact on both ecology and the economy. It also provides opportunities for new jobs and technological innovation. It is therefore a pleasure to hear the answers from the government. Renewable energy sources such as sun, wind and waves need to be exploited better. The centre party supports more research into immature technologies precisely in order to achieve the innovative energy solutions that the future requires. The production of new renewable energy, the conversion of the technological environments and the new bioeconomy can take Norway to the techit in the green shift now facing the world. Bioeconomy is, among other things, important. using green carbon instead of fossil carbon in both materials, chemicals and energy and fuel. Norway has great opportunities to increase the value creation related to the bioeconomy, for Norway has large resources within, among other things. agriculture, on which the Minister for Fisheries was concerned. The selection of SKOG22 has estimated that it is possible to quadruple the value creation, for example: from forestry. In addition, there are many other areas where a shift from black to green carbon can lead to greater investment in Norway, while at the same time taking us towards a more sustainable society. A green shift will also contribute positively and actively to achieving international targets on carbon cuts. After all, the 2012 climate agreement opened up a carbon neutrality target in 2030 as long as other industrialised countries assume a high level of commitments. This objective is firm. A new international climate agreement must include: stimulating the increased use of wood for energy and materials. At the same time, it must also stimulate concrete measures to increase the uptake of CO2 into forests through active forestry. The Norwegian industry has a number of process emissions with a high reduction potential where technology development is urgently needed. It is therefore a pleasure to hear the representatives in this Chamber speak positively about the commitment to technology. By moving from fossil to renewable inputs, several process emissions can be neutralised. It is therefore important that we stimulate such a transition. In today's society, private car rental is a major factor in emissions. The centre party therefore welcomes the fact that we should continue to contribute to the maintenance of the advantages of electric cars. Norwegian industry shall operate as efficiently as possible and be based on the sustainable use of resources. This is a fundamental prerequisite for stimulating, among other things: increased energy production and increased energy saving. It is therefore also necessary for the Storting to look at opportunities for green support schemes. The fall in oil prices has made fossil solutions cheaper. To get a green shift, therefore, the price of black carbon must be up and the price of green carbon down. Norway must therefore use its market power through the State pension fund abroad to invest in climate-friendly solutions and thus contribute to the green shift also in international markets. We will come back with a number of different actions in the future that will actually help to achieve the necessary sustainable society in the future – and an active strong economy based on green carbon.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e951	This is a good debate. I would like to thank the representative Trellevik for taking it up, and I will immediately join the cheerleader that the government has announced a bioeconomic strategy. This is important. It is actually the most important industrial policy debate we are going to have in this country in the future. For what are we going to live by when we are going to carry out the green shift, which our Prime Minister is talking about more and more often? Well, basically we're going to live on three things: we're going to live on brain power, we're going to live on renewable energy, and we're going to have to live on nature or bio-resources. There's nothing else to live off in a future sustainable world that we all know we're going into and we're going into. Then two things are important. One is to start now, so we're going to have a start. The challenge will be: Is the perspective big enough? What we're going to do is replace very large parts of the business we have today. We're not going to mess up the forest industry a little bit. We will create a new business, a new sector, new jobs, new value creation, which will replace the oil industry – and that perspective. It's about hundreds of thousands of jobs, there's talk of hundreds of billions in investments. The faster we get that perspective in, the greater the chance that we can make this happen. So, as many have pointed out, Norway has quite unique prerequisites to make this green shift, to develop this bio-industry. Not only do we have a lot of money on a savings bank, but we have an orderly society with a high level of competence. We are good at processes, and we argue relatively little. And then we have some gigantic basic assumptions. We have a relatively extensive and intact nature on the mainland of Norway, but above all we have Europe's sovereign largest sea areas, with difficult and fortunately well managed and for the time being – we see how global warming and marine acidification are going – intact and very rich ecosystems of species. The bio-resources, the bio-possibilities of such ecosystems, are fabulously large, and there is a resource base that all other countries have to envy us enormously. It's these resources we have to see as our basis of life, already now, and we must, as several have already pointed out, start to see them together very much. There is no difference between land bioeconomy and marine bioeconomy. So binding these environments together, linking the efforts and the instruments already now, is very important. And of course, there's a point that there's a conservationist on the pulpit and he says, "Use nature, use resources." That is what the Greens fully believe, and to a very great extent, but we also believe that it is absolutely essential that we now, and at least in a biostrategy, establish the framework and conditions for this, and that is: this must be done within the limits of the ecosystems. This is not a harvest strategy that can go beyond what nature tolerates. It must be quite clear, right from the start, that here it is about harvesting renewable resources that reproduce without going beyond the limits of ecosystems. We need inputs that are similar to the level of ambition in the oil industry, because that is what we are going to replace. I refer here to the Green State Budget, where the interested parties can see that we are committed to moving more state resources into investment capital, risk capital and research efforts within the green economy than any other party is currently doing. Take a look at those perspectives, and look above all at research and mapping. It's very exciting what's happening at the University of Environment and Life Sciences, but we need two things: we need a survey of Norwegian nature, of land and water, in a much greater degree of professional detail about a much higher level of professional ambition now, and we need to educate the people who can do it, because they've let us not educate them in the last 20 years. And we need a bioprospecting program in Norway. We need a program of the same type as INBio in Costa Rica, which literally goes through all nature in Norway, charting it and facilitating its development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e966	I got a little short time on the pulpit instead, but my point was that the HAV21 report I referred to is about establishing a national pilot plant of significant size for bioprocessing. It has a great potential to realize research, and it can be used for industrial use. So I hope we can get it into such a strategy that the government is now going to work with. That's what I wanted to say. Otherwise, the debate has shown that there are many possibilities along our entire coast and perhaps other places as well, and there are many good and innovative clusters here in the country that have the potential to take greater responsibility for developments in the bioeconomy. It's hard, it's very promising. I believe that the government has done a great deal, that the government also has ambitions to further facilitate both good research and industrial policy, to support the opportunities offered by industry and the bioeconomy, and that much of this will be rewritten in the forthcoming bioeconomy strategy. My good colleague, Frank Bakke-Jensen, invites me to apply to become a guide in Bergen, and I would like to – especially if I go to Bergen to discuss bioeconomy and marine nutrition. I recommend that the government do that, because there is a lot of excitement going on there, and I was a little excited about the Council of State when she signalled that she wanted good dialogue, and that she wanted to travel around and discuss this and get good insights into creating a bioeconomic strategy. So I invite the Council of State to Bergen. Then I would like to thank you for the debate and wish everyone a good Easter. It has been both instructive and interesting for me to attend here today, and I hope I also get to participate in the exciting debate on the bioeconomy once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e979	I would like to thank you for a dedicated debate. Those who have been present have clearly underlined the importance of the transition we are going through into the Norwegian economy and the extent to which the opportunities offered by the development of a new bioeconomy are. The interpellant asked the question about the status of the bioeconomy in Norway. I think we have been well illustrated in this debate. We're doing great. Such a strategy is to be developed in the course of the year, and we see that it will draw up the framework for how we should bet, and make it visible what opportunities we have in Norway. Then I want to draw attention to the long-term research plan presented by the government at the same time as the state budget last year. Many of the heavy, thematic bets — or main areas of activity — in that plan are just areas that will build up under a bioeconomy initiative. That plan also suggests that we need a boost in research infrastructure, so it is also possible to see good links between a bioeconomy strategy and the leaders included in that long-term plan. Then, in the marine area, I have taken the initiative to develop a master plan for marine research to look at how we should prioritise even more focused, to get to innovation and more commercialisation and get new industry out of the amazing resources we're stocking in the blue sector. So the big picture has asked the government to put forward a strategy during 2015. That time we think is good, the time is ripe to do it, and we've started to work and we're going to put forward that strategy, and it's going to be developed in close cooperation with – as I said instead – business, research environments, organisations and other actors who are interested in and who work in this area and who have good contributions to make. Then we have also been illustrated in the debate that international cooperation is important. There is cooperation at Nordic level, there is cooperation in research programmes in the EU, but it is also possible to look further. I recently visited the University of Nordland. They told about a very exciting research collaboration that they were in, with six leading universities in the United States – actually as the only university outside the United States – where you can look at how you can use microalgae to generate bioenergy. The residues you're left with there, you're looking at whether it can be an ingredient in fish feed. So here's the big opportunity, and for an industry that's going to grow to a lot bigger in Norway, finding alternative feed materials for the farming industry in Norway is one of the big tasks that we should definitely do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e992	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e998	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e1022	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that banks’ access to risk through activities other than the core business is further limited beyond what is currently regulated by Norwegian banking and group law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e7219	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 13-9 and proposal No. Two, from the left. [[2]] The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal for a new Financial Enterprise Act § 13-9 is not adopted.’ [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e7235	It is then votered over the setting, except for § 13-9 [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e7245	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e7255	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e7303	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-26.ana.ud1445e7359	Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will recall that there is a meeting in Stortinget on 7 April at the beginning of the meeting. 12th@item: inlistbox At the same time, the President will be allowed to wish all representatives a good job in his constituencies now that Easter stands at the door, and hope it will be a good and happy Easter celebration for all. Very good Easter! Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
