ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e141	The representatives of Ingebjørg Amanda Vosskensen, Sylvi Graham and Rigmor Andersen Eide, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, has taken the seat. The representative of Guri Melby will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e160	I would like to put forward a representative proposal on behalf of myself, Iselin Nybø, Abid Q. Raja and Sveinung Rotevatn on a comprehensive policy of belief and life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e165	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm will also put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e168	It is with great pleasure that I can promote a representative proposal from the staging representatives Kjersti Toppe, Line Henriette Hemdal, Kirsti Bergstø and myself to prevent body pressure in children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e173	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e189	The Supervisory and Constituent Committee is now promoting its position on proposals for appropriations for the 2016 State Budget under the framework and chapters allocated to the Committee at its meeting on 13 October 2015. Framework area 14, which is under the control and the Constitutional Committee, includes appropriations for the Royal House, the Grand Duchy and the External Bodies of the Grand Duchy: the Ombudsman for Defence, the Administrative Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy, the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Committee of the Grand Duchy, the National Institute for Human Rights and the National Audit Office. There are no big ones, but there are some changes in this year's budget, compared to the government's proposals. The Committee is essentially grouped on the appropriations proposed by the Government, with the cuts resulting from the framework for the proposed appropriations adopted at the Grand Duchy on 3 December. The cuts are about smaller reductions in appropriations for the Royal House as a result of a change in the percentage of red tape reform from 0.6 to 0.7 p.m., but above all, the Committee's cut is to be found in the allocation of 24 million to parliamentary work, i.e. the Stortingen. kr. There is a result of the budgetary agreement between the two government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, but also the Labour Party has joined. In other words, it's actually the committee, together, that joins this cut-off proposal. We all know that in this year's budget negotiations we have faced extraordinary expenditures as a result of the refugee crisis and a significantly worse economic situation for the country, with increased unemployment as a result. In my opinion – and it is a unanimous committee that joins this cut – it is not unreasonable that the Storting must therefore cut its budget. The Committee also considers that it is very serious that the cost framework for the conversion work in the Prince’s Gate 26 has been increased by approximately 25%. 305 million. kr from 2014 to 2015 due to unexpected baselines in addition to the necessary redesign. The majority of the Committee considers that there must have been an apparent failure in planning and/or implementation. The majority of the Committee will therefore go deeper into the project and will address the presidency and ask for an explanation of what has happened in this context. The centre party also joins in this, but has an additional comment, or an extended comment, which I believe the representative Lundtigen will explain later in the debate. I would like to state that the very important institutions under the Storting, such as the Defence Ombudsman, the EOS Committee, the Civil Ombudsman and the new National Unit for Human Rights, have all maintained the appropriations proposed by the government. I would also like to point out that, as a result of the Workers' Party's alternative proposals for the 2016 government budget, which proposes to reduce the appropriations for the National Audit Office, the Labour Party has proposed a cut of 5 million. kr to the Riksrevision. Of course, this does not mean that the Labour Party does not recognise the important work of the National Audit Office, but that we believe that 5 million. kr can be cut without significant consequences in a grant of 508 million. kr to the Riksrevision for 2016. The special remarks that are made in the budget position, I leave to the parties behind them to explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e206	For our part, I can refer to the committee chairman's presentation of an overall budgetary position by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which is fully adequate for the current vote in the committee and also for the vote. It was a very nice and satisfying presentation, so that's what they said. The reason why I take the floor is that from our side, the Right side, we also want to underline the point on which the committee chair was concerned – just a certain concern about both progress and not least the development of costs in terms of the reconstruction work in the Prince's Gate 26, which, of course, should also give us a new postal and goods reception and a new underground drive-in strategist. It now has a total cost framework of 1.45 billion. kr. Although there is a certain difference of formulation between the Centre Party, which has chosen to stand on its own particular opinion, an overall committee therefore expresses the same, namely a deep concern for the development of that project. The Committee has also agreed that this is a matter which must be reported more closely to the Storting rather than just waiting for the annual budget proposals. This will also be followed up by the Committee, since it is the Scientific Committee for the Storting and its underlying institutions, Chapter 41. So we're going to start that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e213	I take the floor as rapporteur for Chapter 42, which concerns the Ombudsman’s name for Defence, the Defence Ombudsman and his administration. The Ombudsman shall contribute to ensuring the rights of the defence personnel and contribute to the effectiveness of the defence. The Ombudsman performs an important function in the Norwegian defence, and especially in these times when we have staff deployed in several locations in foreign operations, while the defence carries out a review of its structure and there are structural changes in the time to come. The Committee may, by means of annual communications, have access to the work of the Ombudsman and the Committee has been able to identify the diversity of tasks which it is concerned with. In examining the annual report, the Committee took particular note of the good work undertaken to facilitate the proper care of our veterans following the completion of difficult international missions. It is proposed to allocate 7 million. kr to the Ombudsman for 2016 and the Committee agrees to this. I would also like to make some comments on Chapter 41, which concerns Stortinget. My comments relate more specifically to the building mass of Storting. The Committee is informed that the reconstruction work in the Prince’s Gate 26 – which includes new postal and goods and underground entry routes – has increased the cost framework by 305 million. kr from 2014 to 2015, due to unexpected ground conditions and necessary redesign. With the large building work that has taken place over time in the area in which these works are carried out, the Progress Party assumes that the basic conditions a worker is working on here are well known among major construction companies and consulting engineering companies. It is not possible that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, as a specialised committee for this budget chapter, should be informed of this increase in costs only at the time of the budgetary procedure, without further explanation. The Presidency of the European Parliament should prepare a thorough briefing on the project and the reasons for the cost increase announced, to which the Committee will return without waiting for next year's reporting in the budget. Furthermore, I refer to our remarks in the position on this issue and to the presentation by the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e220	I would like to join the rapporteur's statement, just clarifying two points. As the rapporteur for the Royal House, I have some comments. I would first like to stress that the Central Party has been and is among the strongest adherents of the kingdom. At the same time, we have the following comment: ‘The members of the Committee from the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will note, for the financial year 2015, the importance of including in the chapter. 2 entry 1 must show moderation, independence and transparency so that no questions can be asked about parts of the royal family's bonds, including those from whom you receive benefits.» When the Central Party took the initiative in this comment, which has been supported by the Left, SV and the Green Party, it is as a result of an increasing number of my constituents wondering about the Crown Princes family's choices in relation to what people expect, namely to be such that people can no longer recognise the behaviour, while protecting the privacy of the Crown Princes Couple. This is a rare, but well-meaning, good advice. The second is what several people have been dealing with, namely the Stortinget and the Kappet. 41 item 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance. It's an item that had a frame of 565 million. kr before this treatment. On the part of Storting, careful planning of major transformations is expected – a thorough planning by the Director and presidency. Everything is done in detail here in Stortinget, it is a clear responsibility, and it is a responsible budgeting. When there is such a burden, the responsibility must be clearly placed, and there must be consistency. That's the way it has to be. Many look to the public, even more people look to the Storting. If liability powdering is allowed here, it reinforces a culture that needs to be changed to a greater extent. More accuracy in central government is needed, and clearer responsibility when things go wrong needs to be established. That is the background for the Centre Party to have its own sentence: ‘This member shall assume that the responsibility for this is clearly assigned.’ As I understand the majority, there is agreement to go into the matter thoroughly and clarify responsibilities and what consequences it must have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e239	It's natural to link some comments to the point of the Prince's Gate 26, which is mentioned by several. The restoration of the Prince's Gate 26 is a large and complex project, which includes a new postal and goods station under Wessels Square and a new entrance tunnel to the garage. More details justify the project. The Prince's Gate 26 is an over 130-year-old building that needed extensive rehabilitation. The building had considerable damage to its sentence due to movements in the ground, the ventilation and power systems were obsolete, and the level solution was not very effective. In the risk analysis for Stortinget’s building mass after 22 July, the conditions relating to the garage were highlighted in particular. Today's solution does not distinguish between private cars and goods transport, and the garage has only one exit. This can become critical in an evacuation situation, and the case is pointed out by the PST in several contexts. The length of the tunnel is a result of the conversion of public transport into central Oslo municipality. The lower Volggate becomes a bus street, and the tram will walk both ways across the Wessels place. The project has been decided on in several phases. It was only after the contract with the main contractor was concluded in 2013, that the cost framework of SEK 1.1 billion. kr was fixed. Following the start of construction in the autumn of 2014, several weaknesses were identified in the design of the central parts of the project. Among other things, this is the case for the support of the façade. Despite the fact that the Stortinget was linked to the most competent design company in Norway, it has been noted that the work has not been done well enough. This is followed up with the supplier. Another cost-driven element has been the conditions of the ground, which have also been mentioned here by several, and the material that describes this. Many defects and defects have been identified here, which have resulted in new and costly solutions. The third main element of the increase in costs is related to estimates of the construction of the tunnel. The projectors estimated a price based on the cost framework, but when the tender was made, the offers showed that the estimate was significantly too low. These three elements together account for the bulk of the increase in the overall cost framework from 1.1 billion. DKK to SEK 1.4 billion. kr. This presidency, like the previous one, has followed this project closely. All decisions taken by the Presidency are based on investigations by external competent advisers. The Presidency has followed up the administration, received regular reports on the project and discussed and decided on an ongoing basis further management and quality assurance measures. Nevertheless, there are many dependencies and uncertainties in this project. Building in the centre of Oslo while maintaining the façade and minimising the impact of public transport and Storting's operations is demanding, even with the best known suppliers as performers. Of course, the Presidency will continue to follow this project closely and continuously assess the need for measures to ensure effective implementation and cost control, and of course we will be able to deepen ourselves in these points in a different context – in terms of what the Committee has requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e260	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2-4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e298	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies from the members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e309	I would like to start by thanking the Committee on the Budgetary Process that we have had. It has become a little bit more busy than it needed to be because the financial situation came late. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to give the Christian People's Party and the Left praise for part of the things we achieved in the budgetary process. It has reversed a number of proposals – and that is basically the reversal we have seen. In addition, I am pleased that we have managed to bring together a majority in the Committee, so that the government's plan to put aside the work on food grain preparedness is not of any importance. It may be a cliché, but I want to say that a poor budget has become a little less bad. The centre party has submitted an alternative budget — an alternative budget for putting the whole country into operation. We have focused on a targeted and offensive industrial policy, focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises, and we dare to point to individual industries and the need for concrete policies towards individual industries. We have also provided an alternative budget that responds to the increasing unemployment that one sees in Norway today, and in parts of Norway in particular. And here we know what are the core problems of the government's arrangement. It is that one has first confused the power of speech with the power of action, and one wanders around in the error that conversion in business is something that this government has invented. There has been a lot of discussion about the government's package of measures. It was presented violently in the campaign. When it was presented, it was 4 billion. kr. In the financial debate, we did not get a response to the size of this package, but that it was significantly smaller, is certain. Then it doesn't hold to show that the budget as such has an employment effect. It's clear that a budget where one commits to spend over 1000 billion. kr in Norway, will have an employment effect, but that is not what this is all about. A package of measures shall be targeted at the areas of the country and the industries that are struggling. I also respond to the fact that the majority of the Committee has chosen to put forward a position at a time when Norway’s largest industry, oil and gas industries, are in serious trouble and this is almost being overlooked in silence. Nor are measures targeted specifically at the oil and gas sectors. So to some single points. We are disappointed that we do not have a farm fund in place from 1 January 2016. The government hasn't delivered. If we're going to get the growth of the farming industry that we want, it's important that the municipalities get their share when we're fixing the area. Our thought has been that the reason we wanted it in place from 1 January 2016 was that the money that came in after that date was to be distributed according to the new model. In the agricultural field, the agricultural holding is at the bottom. In one area, it fails fundamentally, and it's in research. The centre party submits an offensive research effort that responds to the objective and desire for increased food production. But in a state budget where it is quite offensive in many areas of research, agricultural research is absent. That's when I wonder if it's true what Mr. Bård Hoksrud, former Secretary of State, said at the conference Forest and Three, that all government councils work for more to their field, except the Minister of Agriculture. In the case of Statkraft, they have received poor treatment. I want to use the Minister of Industry's own words in Prop. 40 S for 2014-2015: the policy that is currently in place ‘weaks the credibility of government budgetary policy and gives little predictability to the company’. [[...]] I think that's very, very unfortunate. The centre party will be in charge of an offensive industrial policy. We're going to fight the government's centralization lever. That is an answer to our alternative budget. With this, I address the proposals that the Central Party has promoted alone or with others. In the case of Innst. 114 S and Innst. 116 S, I see that if these are not that much to say. I look forward to the debate. I am pleased that we have three female state councils present, and I hope that they will also move in if there are any final rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e339	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e344	In your article, Pollestad, you mention several times that in your alternative budget they had an offensive business policy. Many researchers believe that an offensive industrial policy also implies an industrial policy with good competition, competition as an instrument for a good industrial policy. But in the budget, they're drawing down support for the Competition Authority. I wonder – when they reduce support to the Competition Authority, which will work for an effective competition policy, one will, of course, weaken a good and offensive industrial policy among the players. This is a good thing that the citizens of society enjoy – that one exploits its resources in an optimal way. Why are they opposed to effective and good competition if they have an offensive industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e349	The President allows himself in all kindness to remember that all speech is to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e352	When we say we're going to have an offensive business policy, it's about strengthening the environmental technology system, and we're reducing tolls for heavy vehicles – that's the type of grip that's in this. As far as the Competition Authority is concerned, it is absolutely right that we have proposed a cut in our budget. It has two main reasons, one is that we are critical of the driving role of the Competition Authority. We believe that it is primarily a political task to carry this out. The second is that we have a proposal to establish a law on good trade practices, establish our own trade supervision, which one with the government's arrangements will have to take in the Competition Authority, while we will come back to funding such a competition supervision. I think it is far more serious that the government parties, for example. only cuts out the renewal of the data systems of the Brønn Island Health Register, which could have a significant impact on industry in the future. I'm sure the Competition Authority is handling such a cut, and we're not against competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e361	There's a lot you're talking about here, which doesn't have much to do with effective competition and good industrial policy, but which is still a good business policy, I would say, like strengthening the environmental technology system where there's been a historic commitment in the last two years to the government we have. There is a lot of good industrial policy and a lot of good investment in this budget, but it is quite obvious to a well-functioning society that we rely on effective competition, effective competition to make good use of our society's resources. The best means of achieving this is effective competition that can follow, so that one does not get monopolists to enrich themselves, so that the rich become even richer by exploiting monopoly power, and then one needs to have effective and good competition supervision. So my question, once again, is: don't you enjoy the Norwegian society a really good and well-functioning market to trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e368	Once again, the President would like to remind you not to speak directly to the representatives, but via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e371	The centre party is in favour of competition, and we believe that the Competition Authority has an important role to play. In the same way, we believe that in order to ensure the best possible competition, there is no absence of rules that are the solution, that is, competition must be regulated. So far, I suppose we agree. Then we have expressed ourselves critically about this driving role assigned to the Competition Authority, and believe that it is primarily a political task to continue it. It's interesting to hear the representative Trellevik talk about monopolists and wealth. Then I would like to remind the representative – I have put forward a proposal on the law of good trade – that it is an area where competition fails fundamentally, and where the government has spent two years concluding that one should not do anything, it is in the daily food industry. There's a need to grab hold of it. We have tabled a proposal today, and I hope that the Right will support it when we come to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e380	The representative Pollestad wants a law on good trade practices, and he also wants a trade supervision to improve competition. He will not ensure that the Competition Authority gets the means they need, and he will not change the competition law that we already have, so he will create more bureaucracy that the actors have to deal with, and more expenditure. The question is in the same street. The representative Pollestad here says from the pulpit that he's in favour of competition. And then the Center Party says in its comments that they're skeptical of parties that want to compete. What's right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e388	Our starting point is that the entire Norwegian society is built on competition, and one has to make sure that competition works well and happens on equal terms. We believe that, for example: in the daily food industry today is a non-functional competition. There is a need to look at these trends in vertical integration, and we believe that at least today's competition law does not have the tools needed. But there are also other sectors where regulation of competition and supervision has been important. I can mention the telecommunications industry as an important measure. So there should be no doubt that the Center Party wants competition and looks at competition as positive, and when we present proposals today on the law of good trade, it is precisely because we are deeply concerned about the weak competition that is there, and the crooked distribution of power that is in the food chains. There we want to strengthen the consumer, and we want to strengthen the food producer at the expense of the big chains.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e400	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e403	We are facing major challenges. Unemployment is growing, the number of unemployed is approaching 130 000 people – the highest in over twenty years – and the climate challenges require us to change and live by something else. We have historical political experience in creating new jobs. Over the red-green years, 355,000 new jobs were created, two thirds of them in the private sector. They didn't get off their sails. The time of the government is now. The Labour Party believes that the government does not deliver. We distinguish ourselves from the government parties and the supporting parties in that we believe that there needs to be more, more targeted, and that there needs to be a different investment. Our alternative package of measures is therefore 3 billion. kr larger, much more specific and not nutritionally neutral, and we listen to the experts. Non-growth-promoting tax relief is not a priority. Both the Menon report and the reports from the Thogersen Committee and the Børmer Committee must be a crossroads for the government and call for a new line. There is no doubt that a massive decrease in the wealth tax results in such growth the government claims. It is necessary to slow down the use of oil money, and it is therefore a paradox that the government parties, which have traditionally claimed that we are too oil-dependent, are now using so much of the oil wealth and setting records. In three budgets, the Right-Fremskrit party government has spent about as much oil money as the Stoltenberg II government did in eight years. There's got to be a big grab. The Labour Party therefore believes that more growth and conversion in the business world depend on tools in the budgets of several departments. It is important to make permitting legislation more flexible and more liberal. Employees are the main resources of enterprises. Valuable competences are lost when employees have to be retired. Regional development funds are now needed and should not be cut. Measures for those without work need to be strengthened. Regions must be able to act as a regional development actor. It is therefore paradoxical that the Minister of Industry's response to these challenges, among other things. South Varanger has when mine goes bankrupt, is referring the county to using regional development funds, while she knows very well that the government she is a member of, has done great cuts in just this. Our business effort is directed at entrepreneurs in the start-up phase as well as at existing businesses. In our budget, we have given priority, for example. both establishment grants, pre-seed funds, seed funds, loan schemes and guarantee schemes. The accelerator programme, which we also proposed last year, will contribute early-stage capital towards entrepreneurs in the critical phase between the development of business ideas and commercial operations and will apply to the whole country. We believe it should be granted 300 million. NOK into this pot, which will trigger a total of 600 million. kr. This is our arrangement for pre-seed funds. We also strengthen environmental technology under Innovation Norway. This is a system that was set up under our government to contribute to the technological and absolutely necessary conversion of Norwegian industry and industry. We see the arrangement as being very much in demand. Norway is very well placed to succeed in the new knowledge-based bioeconomy with large resources related to both sea, soil and forest. In the last year’s budget, the Stortinget asked the government to develop a bioeconomy strategy to facilitate new jobs and increased value creation based on biobased resources. The strategy is waiting for it, and the government has not spent any substantial amount of money on this for next year's budget. The working party has chosen to use 125 million in its alternative arrangement. kr for the next year’s budget on a separate bioeconomy contribution. Here it is, among other things. a. earmarked funds for both the blue and green sectors in Innovation Norway, and we are also strengthening research on both fish, soil and forest. We also suggest using $10 million. kr for investment in the bioeconomy centre of the interior. I notice that the Right and Advance Party believe this is something that it is not necessary to bet on. In the government's business-neutral industrial policy, more is left to the market and to general schemes. That would hardly lead us into the green shift. That is why, as an alternative, the Labour Party will be more focused and we will not bet on what is not working. I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party. I would also like to give an explanation of vote. In the case of Roman numeral VIII under the Ministry of Industry's budget, I ask that we vote separately above the number points, as the Workers' Party wants to go against these points with the exception of paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e424	The representative Knut Storberget then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e429	The agricultural component of the State budget has changed its course. The same has been true of farming, which is the basis of most agriculture. This government is focusing on food security research and increased production, and we have received some grant schemes based on increased production and increased self-sufficiency. In this way I have registered that the representative Storberget has stated in the media that agricultural policy in Norway is being developed in his office. My question is: is it the case that agricultural policy in Norway is designed at the office of the representative Storberget? And if so, why is the representative against most of what is in the agricultural part of the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e436	I have solved this many times, but I understand that it has gone into the government parties. I have also said in the media that my opinion was that much of the agricultural policy will now be clarified in the Stortinget and not by the government. I think last week is a good example of how very important agricultural policy sizes, whether it is preparedness and security, the Veterinary Institute or there are questions about perhaps one of the most important things, taking care of the food soil, a soil protection strategy, have been decided in total in the Stortinget – contrary to what the State Council of the Ministry of Agriculture wanted. I also believe that when we now deal with the budget, it also seems that the Storting is gathering, among other things. on a risk and vulnerability analysis related to food production and, in particular, cereals and cereal stocks, contrary to the wishes of the Council of State. So I think in recent years has shown that a lot that the important, fundamental issues related to agriculture are just being settled in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e445	The right of residents to travel in the Norwegian outland is granted to all-man rights, and hunting and fishing are regulated by the rules on withdrawal. 80 pst. Norwegian forests are owned by private owners of land. 69 pst. of the sale in Statskog was purchased from private landowners, 13 p.m. by the Environment Directorate, 10 pst. by municipalities and 8 pst. by others. What makes the representative Knut Storberget think that there will be less opportunities for outdoor life, hunting and fishing by letting Statskog sell the land his own government called a ‘unique opportunity’ for forest owners of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e450	I'm very happy to get that question. In my opinion, this is one of the major questions of principle dealt with by Stortinget. This is in principle because a large and powerful state forest will contribute to a greater degree to the public also having access to hunting and fishing, which is, of course, not universal, but which must be a well-willed landowner for, among other things. to maintain a moderate price level. That is why we believe that sales should now be stopped and that the arrondissement sales have come far enough. Then it's also important for the Workers' Party to see that we need more than ever a large and dynamic engine in the forest field. As we have it in force, as we have it in oil, we should also have it in terms of forest development, and especially in terms of wood processing. Then it is strange from the Workers' Party's point of view that we are going to start selling large forest properties out of Statskog, which would weaken the possibilities of being such an engine.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e457	But what makes the Storbaget think it's going to be more difficult for people to operate outdoors and hunting and fishing, when the prices of Statskog's rental are no lower than the rent of private landowners, as well as that they have a restriction on VAT in their area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e462	I think it's quite obvious that when the forest ground is below Statskog, that is, the state's land, there is much less risk of rights being deprived of the public in terms of hunting and fishing. At the moment when things are going on in private, there is a greater risk that prices will both rise – I believe that State Forest has been significantly moderate at price levels – and that other actors than the general public will be allowed to hunt and fish. So I also want to say that that doesn't mean that we're against private forest ownership, but Norway is one of the countries in the world that have the least forest on the state hand. It's a paradox, and that's why we believe that in order to ensure the balance between public and private ownership of such an important renewable resource, it's important that we now keep the properties that Statskog actually has left, and that the arrondance sales that have been announced are not completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e471	Work, activity and conversion are the headlines of this year's government budget. It's had our focus from the very beginning. We warned in the opposition against a strong increase in oil dependence, and in the government we have had a strong focus on the challenges posed by the fall in oil prices and the fact that the oil engine no longer gives growth impulses to the Norwegian economy. Such a consistent direction of the message can be said with respect to not reporting that the opposition has had. In one year, one has changed from 'too much, too early' to 'too little, too late'. And to the committee leader Pollestad: we have actually responded to the challenge, while the opposition has actually been in the fog house. At the same time, when we compare today's challenge with the financial crisis in 2009, as we have heard before in a number of debates, I believe that the fundamental challenge we are now facing has not been addressed. Several economic experts say that the division of Norwegian economy is now marked. The countries that have lived for years without significant oil influence and of more traditional, competitive business are doing very well. Unemployment is falling, and optimism is high. I spoke to a local contractor in Hedmark who has never had a larger order book. The parts of the country that enjoyed the upturn, of course, suffer from the downturn. This is a big challenge. We're not just going to find new jobs, but we're going to find new jobs with the same value creation capacity as the oil industry has. High-income jobs must be replaced by new high-income jobs if we are to afford to maintain well-being. In other words, we cannot build more sheltered sectors, as some seem to believe. Then the challenge is great. In the long term, we need to have a clear focus on value creation and productivity. The reform work of the government in a number of areas is central. We cannot discuss the budget of the Business Committee without commenting on the opposition's overall policy framework. We know that the Workers' Party will increase the tax burden on business and individuals by 10,5 billion. kr and budgets with air money that goes on credibility. They take huge sums from business to boast on some specific policy-making initiatives and call it enterprise policy. It is neither a true nor a good business policy, and if you go along with some of the active projects in the last period, the result will be quite bad. So to the budget we're dealing with. Good and active industrial policy is a policy that prepares the country for challenges that arise and strengthens the basis for value creation and jobs throughout the country. We took over a one-legged policy and immediately started to focus on what really matters to the whole country: transportation, knowledge, nutrient research and development, and tax havens that provide growth impulses. Now there is optimism in agriculture, fisheries, travel and more traditional, competitive business. We focus on entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs, commercialisation of R & D and development of environmental technologies. BIA and FORNY2020 are given a solid boost, and it is invested in seed funds and in the innovation of pre-seed seed funds. The new ideas need to be raised. The local founder and the private, local ownership are central to the successful conversion of Norway. On the right, private local ownership is seen as a crucial factor in future value creation and jobs, especially in District Norway. That we failed to further reduce the wealth tax in this budget is critical to adaptability and innovation because it turns out to be less risky. The government builds its policy on the efficient use of Community resources. A more active competition policy will lead to better use of resources and, at the same time, to less inequality in society. It shows new OECD research. We are therefore facilitating enhanced competition supervision through this budget, including in relation to the food sector. The government's budget is a budget for work, activity and conversion, which responds to the challenges we've met.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e491	The Labour Party has a large bioeconomy package in its draft budget. I was unable to understand that the representative, Gundersen, called the bioeconomy at all in his contribution. We also have 10 million. kr to a bioeconomy centre in Hamar, which is fully in line with proposals from the Inland Committee. Now it's not an unknown problem that the government of Solberg is ordering reports, and when the reports are running, and it doesn't match what they want to see, one ignores them. However, it is a bit alarming to approach actively and not see the need for a bioeconomy centre in Hamar, so that Hedmark could be a center and a driving force that would be central to the green shift. Can the representative Gundersen give an explanation as to why he does not believe to bet on bioeconomy in general, and as to why he is so powerful at a stake in Hamar in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e500	Where the representative takes it violently from, I do not know, because we do believe that the bet is already in place. We've had several state secretaries and some of the advisers in the Right Group up at Hamar to learn about bioeconomy. We believe that Innovation Norway is already engaged in that kind of investment, and in line with both my and the Right's general belief, the environment in Hamar must also be competitive and focus on the overall investment we have in research. Since the red-green government, we have increased nutrient research by 2.2 billion. kr. And then you stand here and you say we're against something. We're not against anything, but we want to build competitive environments, and I think that's Hamar too. We have great confidence in Hamar, that they will join the competition and attract the resources they need to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e507	After the budgetary agreement, there was a severe blow to Government. In Prop 40 S for 2014–2015, the government wrote: «The financial framework for Government has been established by the fact that high dividends have been collected from the company, while at the same time equity has been transferred. Such a model of ownership management contributes to weakening the credibility of government budgetary policy and also provides little predictability for the company.» That's what the government wrote a year ago. In the budgetary agreement underpinning the budget of the year, one does just that. A capital adder, a dividend taker. State power is given a capital injection of 10 billion. kr. It's now going to be 5 billion. kr. Does that right-wing policy make sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e521	I think the representative Pollestad confirms that the Center Party wants to be in the camp at any time that is the easiest to be in. In the summer we read in E24 that the representative Arnstad from the Centerpartiet demanded that Statkraft repay the money, because the company itself raised doubts about its investment plans. Investment plans are also deferred, and it is not unnatural that state companies must also deal with the fact that Norwegian economy is in a completely different situation than it was just one year ago. As we point out in our remark, it is up to the board of directors of the company at all times to adapt the company's strategies and finances to the frameworks that growth and government thinks the company should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e530	The government has cut off quite sharply in the marine sector. The reason for this has been that there should be no specific effort in this area, that we have a general instrument, and then the marine sector must apply to them too. It has also been the argument within some other areas, but not on oil and gas. If we take research as an example: there is the biggest single effort in the draft budget for 2016 to strengthen the specific investment in research and development in oil and gas. It looks kind of continuous, and I don't get to vote on it. So, one says that for some sectors, the general tool that is the way to go is that there should be no separate bets, while in this field there should still be a caretaker with special bets. What is the logic of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e535	First of all, this is probably in a completely different department. It is clear that the departments are fighting for their own areas and budgets, and it is probably an interesting discussion to join. I think it is quite obvious that we still have to bet on oil and gas. Oil and gas are going to be an important part of the Norwegian economy for many, many years and are thus a very important driver of the Norwegian economy. As for the relationship with other budgets, I would like to reiterate that we have increased nutrient research by 2.2 billion. Since the red-green government came into being, almost all areas seem offensive to both commercialising research and investing in research and development for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e542	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e545	Norway is experiencing a difficult time in some areas, and we are doing so in a troubled world. Many have pointed to the challenges we face, including: increased unemployment. Of course, it is serious for those who lose their jobs, and perhaps especially in a sector that is experiencing a significant decline. This affects the West and, in part, the South. It also affects individual communities, such as: The churches, where the south canals are laid, and, moreover, Svalbard. In common for these industries, both in the oil and gas industries and in the mineral industries, international conditions are at the heart of these developments. The oil price is a commodity price, and you notice it very strongly. In that picture, it is also important to note that not all states have increased unemployment. There are actually nine counties who have a decline in unemployment. There are some states that are reasonably stable, but of course there are some states that have significant increases in unemployment – and that is a challenge. It is perhaps in place to remember that the red-green government in 2013 increased the oil tax, which oil industry warned quite strongly against that time. It shows, among other things: how difficult it is to predict the future and what is coming. At least what you can say is that in some areas things are going well. The government is making a significant contribution to the 2016 budget to meet the challenge facing it. I think it is right today to point out that, in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries's budget area, there are many multiannual measures totalling more than 450 million. kr – just to mention something. At the same time, the government presents a good economic growth package for entrepreneurial activity, and the government also presented a business start-up plan at the same time as the budget, which has received considerable attention and substantial support. The same thing was done by the government within the maritime industry, where a maritime strategy was presented that was very well received in the industry, which is experiencing some tough times. The government has also followed up the maritime industry in a good manner in the budget. A good industry is the aquaculture industry. There's the solid number. There has been good growth over many years, but the industry is now facing a significant challenge in the case of the salmonid problem — and this has to be taken seriously by the industry. It is a pleasure to record that there was a total deposit that followed Up Report. St. 16 for 2014–2015, which the government presented in this area, and both the government and the Stortinget have done a good craft. Now it's up to the industry to deliver in that area. Travel life is also very good. When we had this debate last year, there was considerable criticism from the opposition because there was a slight reduction in the marketing of Norway as a destination, and that it would lead to a decline in industry. The true opposite has happened. It has gone and goes quite well in the industry. There are, of course, many factors that affect the tourism industry, including: the purchase price, but the tourism industry has a good product. There is also a good basis for further growth within that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e562	The representative of Korsberg was in his contribution to the mineral industry. The mineral industry is an industry for which the Workers' Party has great ambitions. The government has said the same thing, but it seems that words and actions are not the same. The draft budget cut the total budget by 25 million. kr to NGU in South Norway and North Norway. Based on the letter sent by the NGU to the Committee, this leads to a reduction of the focus on nutrition geology, which will go beyond the competence of the NGU. In addition, it will make NGU less able to advise the Directorate for Mineral Management. Doesn't this cut representative Korsberg worry, and how does this correspond to the fact that the government itself says that the mineral industry is one of its fields of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e569	We have enough – and the government has enough – the same ambition for the mineral industry as the representative of Omland, if not even better. It is true that we have reduced the appropriations to which the representative of Omland refers, but it is not crucial whether or not to invest in mineral industry in Norway. It is a complicated picture, which the representative Omland knows well, with both permits and – to put it mildly – a reasonable bureaucratic mill to go through. But at least what's happy now is that Nussir is in the starting pit to be able to start up in Finnmark, and it happens after long processes that I think the red-green parties also know from when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e574	The representative was involved in this with lengthy processes. After all, the government has focused on simplification and rapid treatment and the processes associated with the mineral industry. In this context, it is important, even in the opinion of the government, to strengthen the Directorate of Mineral Management in order to also contribute from the municipalities. So now it's cut into the funds of NGU, and NGU says that the skills they have, they lose, and that it's also going to go beyond advising the directorate. Could the representative of Korsberg say anything about whether he believes this would lead to increased processing time in view of these processes that one is concerned with simplifying?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e579	This government is very concerned with simplification. To put it that way: There was a significant portfolio on the table when this government joined, a portfolio for which the red-green government has a significant responsibility. The government is doing well that way. I think you have to admit that anyone who experiences a reduction or a cut in their appropriations, does not cheer, to say it carefully. I think everyone has to admit that. As many people have been in their posts today, you are facing a very difficult situation, perhaps the most demanding situation that has been in recent times, at least in the 18 years I have been in Stortinget. It is clear that it represents the budget. That means that there are not all areas where you can bet equally strongly. But that means that there will be an increase in red tape and a longer procedure, I think it is definitely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e584	The solution of the majority of the parties to combat red tape is the establishment of a regulatory board and the recruitment of several bureaucrats. Self-employed Helge Mögster said in the Official Journal of Bergen on 3 November 2015 that it has become much worse to do business under this government, and that he has never ‘regarded as many inspectors and as many forms as in the last few years’. In the State budget adopted, Helge Mögster is given a new task, and that is for example: that when paying running compensation to his employees, he must operate with a taxable portion and a tax-free part. The taxable part is 30 øre per kilometre. My question to the representative Korsberg is: Could it have been an idea that the first task that the Board of Regulators was given was to get the government budget sent over and go through it and make their recordings?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e591	Interestingly, in a budget debate in Stortinget, individual quotes are drawn from people. There has been earlier evidence of what some experts have said in such debates. Let me say it like this: there are lots of experts for any statement, so I don't think that's a defect. But what this government has done is make sure to bring down the bureaucracy. In some areas, it may be natural to increase control activities. Then I would like to remind Pollestad of perhaps reading a little in the budget setting, among other things. in the case of the salmonitus problem, which provides for increased control. In some areas it's natural to increase control, but in sum, at least this government makes it much easier for business, and I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e599	The «green shift» is the new word of the year, according to the Language Council. That's good, that gives hope. In the fall I visited the TreSenteret at NTNU. They could say that the green shift is not just words, but that the students choose the direction of study after that. While in the 1990s there were few master's tasks written within the wood field, there are now many doubles of master's students. The world's tallest house of three stands in Bergen, 51 meters high. This is an example of wood having great potential as a building material. We know that there are many bridges to be restored in the next few years. Here three – and should three – can have a significant role. Student relations build more and more student homes in three. This should be a follow-up for more people. Wood is an environmentally friendly building material that stores CO2 and therefore wood should be used to an even greater extent as a building material. This is also an important part of the bioeconomy. We're going to go from the blacks to the greens. Renewal, simplification and improvement are some of the government’s ‘fun words’. With this as a backtrace, it was a little strange that the government in the draft government budget decided to cut out the entire three-based innovation programme. But then it's good that the bulk of the population can fix a little illogical cut. Norway has large wood resources that we need to use. The development of timber marks provides for the possibility of transporting timber from crop areas to plants for further processing. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased with an increase of 22.5 million. kr for lumbermarks in the budget agreement. Norwegian industry is in a difficult period of time linked to lower oil prices and increasing unemployment. We need to convert, and in the process of conversion, this means that new jobs need to be created. That's why the Christian People's Party believes it was important to set up a new seed fund, which can help create these new jobs. Localisation in Agder/Telemark means that the fund has a natural place in the region that experiences the ringing effects of the downturn very strongly. Antibiotic resistance is a serious threat to public health. Numbers from Denmark show that 80 pst. by Danish swine herds are infected by MRSA. In Norway, we keep the infection out by cleaning up pig flocks when we detect MRSA. Therefore, pig farmers are at the forefront of keeping MRSA out of the country’s public health problem. Wrong signals are sent when the compensation rates for the reorganisation of pig herds do not better reflect the operational losses experienced by the farmers. Therefore, it is good that the bulk of the population now asks the government to review the rules for compensation for the reorganisation of pig herds. From the Christian People's Party we believe that this review must lead to a higher compensation rate. The fight against resistance is not just about keeping bacteria out of the country. It's also about avoiding that we create more resistant organisms. Lacetus is a major challenge for the aquaculture industry. Chemicals used against lice have contributed to creating resistance problems. The media headlines of the past few weeks tell this with all clarity. That is why it is good that, through this year's budgetary unity, we can strengthen this area by over 30 million. kr. Fishing has been and will be an important cornerstone of Norwegian coastal communities and is one of our main export industries. But we need to know what we have, and how much we have of the different species. Therefore, it is good that we should spend more money on stock research in 2016. The fishing industry also needs the continuous recruitment of skilled people, and Set Seabone has been an important player. 2.5 million. kr is not much in the budget, but it is important anyway. Another industry that also needs a good framework for recruitment is agriculture. The government's proposal for a tax increase when the next generation is going to take over the farm, I'm convinced that is not a positive recruitment measure. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government's tax increase has been humiliated by the budgetary agreement. However, the government will have a reward for reducing the tax on sales out of the family. As the first woman with the main posts in this main part of the budget, I'm glad I have three female councils. I can assure the chairman of the committee that women will be included in the main round, and we will be included in the final round of this budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e639	The situation in the South-West regarding unemployment is alarming, and we believe that the government is not taking this seriously. The downturn in Sørland was extra big when the government decided not to continue funding to the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, a project that many people believe in to create new jobs. I have registered that the Christian People's Party has stood on and got 20 million in place. to this end in the budgetary agreement. That's good. I have also registered that the Christian People's Party indicates that they must follow this forward with regard to the application. But my question is: why did the Christian People's Party not support the comments of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, where we ‘foresee that the partial allocation of the revised National Budget 2015 is followed up, so that the progress plan can be met’?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e645	Thank you for the question, and also for the fact that the representative of Omland has seen the efforts of the Christian People's Party through the Business Committee, in the Finance Committee – but also through our two competent South African representatives, both Robstad and Gruvan. Yes, we got these funds in place in connection with the revision. We had it in our alternate budget, $20 million extra dollars. We have got the government to do that, and we have to go ahead – I can promise the representative of Omland. In addition, through our seed fund to the region that Omland represents, we have strengthened the region even more. I also expect the representative to take this with me, and then we will be impatient also in terms of more funds for the specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e652	It has not been easy to be the voluntary organisations under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with this government. Time after time, a proposal is being cut, and sometimes a big cut, and it may seem that the government has something against organizations such as the United Kingdom. 4H. So the Christian People's Party and the Left are to be commended for having managed to get this money back in the budgetary processes, but it's going to be no more than that the rates are flat year after year, and that the real value goes down. So my question to the representative Hemdal is whether she sees the need to strengthen the voluntary organisations under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e657	I must thank the chairperson of the committee, now in a line, but also in the main post, where the chairman of the committee sees the importance of the efforts of the Left and Christian People's Party. So it is that non-governmental organisations are close to the heart of both the Christian People's Party and the Central Party – it is central politics. So it's not up to us to be able to strengthen these organizations, but we put the $5 million in place. kr as the government cut in the additional number, and then we also increased by 2.4 million. kr and new organisations received. So yes, we have through this strengthened the year's budget, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e662	The representative Heimdal held an post where the green shift was the main entrance. Whether a read government budget and not least the agreement reached by government partners, the large individual stakes are still within petroleum and gas. I thought the green shift was about shifting the Norwegian economy from a petroleum-dependent economy to something else and more renewable. As I was in a previous line, where I got a slightly unclear answer, one has also removed the agreement that the governing party has made with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where one goes on to cut the marine sector quite sharply – the one that everyone points to as future to the country, and one says that this should go into the general system, while one at the same time is investing in the separate arrangements for oil and gas. How does the representative, Mr Hemdal, make this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e671	I can mention that, through the budget agreement, we managed to maintain the 40 million premium for fishing ports. kr. We have an increase in the leadership grant of 10 million. kr. We've strengthened our efforts towards escape. We have strengthened the work on the salmon problem, and we have strengthened this on stock research. I think the representative of Fylkesnes sees that precisely by the fact that the Left and Christian People's Party has been active in this area, which the representative is concerned about, it has produced results. This shows that we are drawing today's government in the right direction in terms of fisheries and aquaculture policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e679	Norway is facing two major challenges that I think there is reason to point out when we are discussing the business budget, first of all an increase in unemployment which is essentially due to a falling oil price combined with a very high cost level, and, second, the major environmental and climate challenges that require sustainable transition – a green shift. The State budget for 2016 must therefore become a long-term migration budget, which also reduces the unemployment rate. For many years it has been said that the wise heads in the oil industry must shift to other and new industries, that there is a considerable competence in the oil sector that will be especially valuable in the green economy. I agree. Now we see significant reductions in oil-related activities. It particularly affects the South and the West. At the same time, we experience that for example. in tourism and in a renewable sector such as the marine sector is partly doing very well. In my county, More and Romesdal, we see this well. Some parts of the supplier industry have been able to turn towards the marine sector — from oil to seafood and marine industries. The main challenge now is to see and open opportunities for transition to industries that need people, and to better facilitate the creation of something new by those who have a founder in their stomachs. Here, the Left has made proposals for improvements to both tax and social systems. The majority draft budget builds on much of what the Left wants for greener economic development – a greener business. But I can assure you that both in individual matters throughout the year and in budgetary work, the Left will work for a greener industrial policy. This cannot or shall not be done overnight, but we are definitely talking about a shift. The left did not get all of its proposals from its alternative government budget into the budgetary agreement between the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left, but I would mention some of the areas where we had a clear impact. This applies, inter alia, to: targeted use of the public instrument, increased access to capital, targeted tax incentives, business simplification and a large-scale commitment to research and innovation. All of this is now achieved on the basis of a combination of government and cooperation parties' policies and an active, green and responsible industrial policy that characterises the Left. The left has received a solid stamp in the budget. Now we get to a green tax change. We're getting a new fund, Renewable AS. [[“Greenfund”]] In fisheries and aquaculture, we've got a 10-million stock research boost. kr more than the government proposed – a necessary boost to provide a better basis for quota fixing in fisheries. We've got a 10 million salmonitus research grant. kr, and for leaching check of 7,5 mill. kr. We've got a crash bet in Antarctica that isn't exactly as good as what we wanted in the first place, but that gives clear commitments to the government. In addition, we have got to the Seebone, which is mentioned earlier. In agriculture, we continue to receive grants for three-based innovation programmes. And not least, we get more predictable funding for promoting production, consumption, research and development in ecology. I will end with this very policy area which is very important for the Left and for me – the focus on organic farming. The size has set itself an ecological goal that it is absolutely necessary to speed up to reach. For this reason, I am particularly pleased that the Committee is now unanimous – and rightly so after a certain delay – in agreeing to strengthen the ecological environment at Tingvoll, that the Norwegian Centre for Organic Agriculture, NORSØK at Tingvoll, is now receiving its own entry on the State budget. In addition to NIBIO's research and work in the field of ecology, this is a boost to the ecological effort in Norway, while taking into account the need to further develop skills jobs in the districts — as in Tingvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e708	I have always experienced the Left as a People's Movement Party, and in this way I had expectations that the voluntary organizations, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, would be more protected. In his remarks on page 71, the left writes in relation to the People's Action a new policy on predatory animals, which calls for their funding to be phased out: ‘The sole purpose of the organisation is to undermine the breeding agreement of the Stortinge.’ In a democracy with full freedom of expression – does the Left believe that State grants to non-governmental organisations should depend on organisations agreeing with the perpetuity of large numbers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e718	I believe with regard to the voluntary organisations, that the Left has stood up for them and focused very strongly on it in the budget negotiations. To the special issue that the representative of Storberget mentions, Left has the view that we want everyone to be on the table, that we should have diversity, but in a situation of scarce resources in this area, that was a reason for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e723	I agree with Mr Farstad that it is important that we have all kinds of views within democracy and in the democratic debate. Is it not then just dangerous to move towards such an argument as the representative of Farstad now does – that when you have scarce resources, you cut first of all in the subsidy to those who have ‘the sole purpose of undermining the prey of the Stortinge,’ i.e. disagrees with the majority of Storting? From the Labour Party we do not want to go in and decide whether we agree with the organisation before it receives a grant. Would it not be dangerous if the granting of grants were made depending on the majority of the Storting's back, and would this not mean that the political debate on important political issues would just be without the alternative voices?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e729	I just have to refer to my first answer. We've made a choice within scarce resources for how we want to organize this. That's what we're answering for here. The different voices of voluntary organisations feel that we will be able to address both agricultural issues and other issues through the budget that we have now agreed to present here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e734	I feel that the Left in the budget position agrees in rather large words that it is important to strengthen the farmer's profitability, that it is important to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, and that the Left is a party that wants to strengthen animal welfare. In the nations today, we can read that Nortura has now decided to take out a lot of chicken producers, people who have invested money to produce chicken. It happens at the same time as some giant chicken houses are being built in more central parts of the country. When we know that it was the Left who secured a majority for a doubling of the concession limits in the belief that twice as large chicken houses would be good animal welfare, I wonder: What does the Left want to say today to these hundred families who are now experiencing economic uncertainty because of the misunderstanding of the Left's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e741	First, I would like to say that when we have been involved in raising the roof, it does not necessarily mean that the actors have to follow and walk as closely as possible to the roof, even though we know that the driving forces are usually like those of a nutritionist. We were involved in this based on an overall assessment, where we also had dialogue with the organisations that are concerned with animal welfare, and we came to the conclusion that we would be involved in that upliftment. That's the answer I can give today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e748	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e751	Let me start by giving an illustrative example of the situation in Norway today: West Agder had around 14,000 oil-related jobs at the beginning of the year. Now the number is a place between 9,000 and 10,000 workspaces. 30 000 oil jobs in Norway will disappear in a short time, estimates SSB. Since 2013, more than 15,000 jobs have already disappeared. These are dramatic numbers for those who lose the job, and an important warning for all of us in this room. Norway simply needs to build a new economy, and if the Storing and Government don't take it seriously and really take a bigger hold, the cancellations will continue without the possibility for competent and competent people. It will be a double loss for Norway. Conversion to a smaller oil dependent Norway must be faster than many thought a few years ago. Nevertheless, we see little action from the government. In a situation where we need to build up strong support for research, development, innovation, scaling up and technology deployment in industries other than oil and gas, the government continues to invest the big money in just oil and gas. It is illustrative that 13 pst. of the total means of research goes to oil and gas, while only 3 pst. goes to renewable energy. We see the same lack of recognition in innovation tools, export support schemes and tools in general. Oil and gas take precedence, and as a result, today's economy is centered. The green shift is, in fact, a bluff – it is not happening in Norway today. Norway needs a long-term transition policy to avoid a rough brake with long-lasting consequences for the economy and the workforce. Such a policy must help us gradually to get away from oil and gas as the major locomotive in Norwegian business. The oil industry will be important for many years to come, but the need for conversion will not disappear even if the oil industry may experience new upswings. The long-term oil policy of the past laid the foundation for the good economic situation we have today, but now we have to lay the foundation for future value creation and well-being. If we do not prioritise migration high enough, we will allow short-term economic and political considerations to lead the overall well-being across generations. The result may be higher unemployment and lower tax revenue and export income. Then we've fallen into luxury traps. The objectives of the new Norwegian economy must be a major increase in export industries outside oil and gas, a targeted transfer of competences from oil and gas to new areas and the creation of tens of thousands of export-right jobs – many of them in enterprises that do not yet exist. And finally, we have to be active when it comes to the fact that new technologies are changing the regulations for all production and value creation. Computers can increase the complexity of office tasks and a number of manual occupational groups risk being automated away. The Internet and the sharing economy are creating new value chains and increasing global competition. It may be good news for Norway if we're offensive, but it's bad news if we're passive. In the SV's alternative state budget, we're doing six superlative steps to start a real green shift: First of all, we're using 7 billion. kr less of the oil money than the government. Oil and gas revenues are going to fall sharply in the coming years. That means that today's level of oil money is too high. Secondly, we propose the instrumentation to promote non-oil and gas export industries. We propose the conversion of the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit and Export Finance. We propose to phase out the specific public aid schemes for oil exploration. And we suggest using Innovation Norway more targeted to promote the green shift. Thirdly, we propose a strong strengthening of risk-oriented capital. There is too much risk aversion in the instrumentation system today. We don't know what we're going to create in the future, but your path is risky and full of trials and bankruptcy. We have to be willing to bet. Fourthly, we propose comprehensive, specialised investments in the area where there is reason to believe in the future: sea wind, CO2 storage, aquaculture, bioeconomy and technology in general. There are few countries – if anything – that have made a major change in the economy by pursuing a business-neutral policy, something that we do not have in Norway today, all the time the big stakes are in oil and gas. Fifthly, we propose a special effort on the coast. We have called the bet the ‘Electrification of the coast’. There is an extensive investment in short sea shipping, ferries and fishing boats. Not only will it reduce emissions, but it will also strengthen the industry in crisis. Sixthly, we propose upgrading the region's ability to move forward. The government has cut off regional development funds very much, thus excluding those with their shoes from active policies. I want to include the suggestions SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e786	The representative of Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e791	A long-term conversion policy that will gradually help us, and that must happen now – I read from the article to Knag County. The Research Council says that by having dropped the number of jobs in the oil sector, we now have what we call a transfer of competences from the oil sector to other industries – to sea food, to travel life – so free knowledge is always something to do. The Research Council also says that in an open research arena – with perhaps not an intentional research programme, but unintentionally – ideas and ideas from one industry come from a different industry, creating new projects, new opportunities, new ideas and new jobs. This is a relatively neutral arena, not affected by any major programme – it only happens with research funds. I wonder: in the SV budget, what kind of action do you have to stop such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e800	Just the last time from the representative, I don't know if I understood: stopping a development. I agree that basic research in general tends to be used in a very large number of other areas. This means that ground exploration, even within petroleum, could have an effect far outside the field of petroleum. For example, deep water technology is very interesting in many other areas, not just in deep water. There may be a whole other context, it doesn't have to be close to water input. So I agree with that. But what happens in government's policy is that one strengthens a specific programme that has a specific purpose, Demo 2000, and in Demo 2000, one of the explicit objectives is actually to extend the oil age on a Norwegian base. That's why we want to cut the special bets, so the oil scientists can switch to the general bets, where there's a lot of basic research, and where the good scientists will also get money within the areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e809	I might have been a little fuzzy. But that's the way we're being attacked for cutting marine research in our budget – we're going to claim that's not right. A lot of specific marine programmes have been taken down, but then we can also point out that marine industry is involved in research in other arenas, so the share of marine research we can refer to from our budgets is three times higher than what you can point to when it specifically concerns marine research programmes. We think it's a good thing that we have that kind of arena. That's why we believe we don't have a neutral research arena, nor do we have a neutral research policy. For us, a tax incentive is to make business research more, actually active industrial policy and active research policy. I find it a little strange that we are being attacked by the fact that we have cut marine research – we cannot see exactly where it should be – while pointing out that marine research is increasing significantly, it is doubling, and it will increase even more in the future, because we are now gaining knowledge from the oil sector to the seafood industry. My question is, what does the representative think is wrong with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e814	In the government's research message, there are six or seven points – I don't think quite how many there were – but the first point was the marine sector. And that's under the marine sector the strengthening of Demo 2000 coming. When a marine sector is thinking about government, it's thinking of petroleum exploration as part of it. To put it this way, that means one could say that we're investing a lot in the marine sector. This is petroleum exploration, and it's the biggest single effort in government's entire research policy – hundreds of millions go to it, to explore those parts of the ground. While in the case of Mariano, for example, who is going to explore the living life at the bottom of the sea, the investment is 40 million. kr – as an illustration. So I want to say that it's obvious that when it's about living life along the Norwegian coast, the government cuts hard, but if we call petro a marine bet, that's where the big investment in research is from the government. And that's what I mean is openly critical in the time we talk about green shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e819	I have come to realize that SV is a little more than average concerned with climate change, and that everyone is going to contribute in terms of climate accounting, including agriculture. To ensure that sectoral emissions are mitigated, a frequent charge is imposed. I know it's hard for SV to be concrete, but now I'm giving them at least the opportunity. What charges can be imposed separately to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e827	That's a very open question. But it is clear that of the areas we now have, since the government entered the EU track in Norwegian climate policy, it is transport, it is the petroleum sector, and then it is agriculture. That's where we can make the big cuts within the frames one has. For my part, I am busy doing the big cuts primarily in the field of petroleum and transport. In the agricultural field, I haven't really had the big requests for gigantic cuts. What is SV's line in agricultural policy in general is that we should have a greater focus on bioeconomy, which means that we can use much more of the resources in agriculture, whether from forests or from food production, etc., and that we should be able to cope much more fully with self-sufficiency in feed, and then through offensive efforts, for example. bio-prospecting to use marine resources to produce feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e834	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e837	To further develop Norway into a country that preserves our basis of life rather than contribute to global warming requires fundamental changes in our economy. Such changes can be seen as a threat to well-being, but can also inspire new, creative solutions. We just have to dry up. Norway is a lucky country. Today, we have all the prerequisites for a green shift – a strong economy and the necessary skills in the population. We have natural resources that many can envy: Europe's largest sea areas with large species-rich ecosystems, good agriculture, productive forests, living districts close to resources and renewable energy resources at sea and on land to an enormous extent. This provides enormous opportunities for a future business. The business life of the future is based on three main resources: knowledge and creativity, renewable energy and biological resources. Thus, products and production must be based on living, renewable resources. These must in turn be exploited within the limits of nature and species tolerance. This means that the nature under threat needs to be protected and that renewable biological resources are the starting point for value creation. In short, in order to live by nature, we need to understand it and take care of it. The Greens therefore propose a bio-prospecting programme under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Today, Norway is lagging behind in this area as compared with our neighbouring countries. Just as rocks are mapped to find minerals, bioprospecting is the mapping of the chemical and genetic components of biological organisms. The Greens will make such data open and accessible to those involved in bio-based value creation. Knowledge should be used to find new ways of using renewable resources, but also to streamline and recover residues and metals from other productions, i.e. as part of a circular industry. When it comes to energy to supply this industry, Norway also has good assumptions. The Greens believe that State power should be given a clear role as a locomotive for the development of renewable energy production. We think it's unwise for the government to weaken equity and make dividends. In our alternative budget, we're going to add 300 million. kr to a test park for offshore sea wind. This is a nearby industry to bet on, with the great wind resources and the marine expertise we know we have. New industrial activities do not come without risk. Green shifts represent an active choice to develop renewable industries through good framework conditions. The Greens look forward to the government presenting their strategy for the bioeconomy. An approach we propose is to establish a Bionova to promote a biobased business and secure state risk capital for innovation and commercialisation. The possibilities are great, not least across the blue and green sectors. A few days ago, we discussed food waste. These are resources that we should use for feed, for example. in the breeding industry. The same applies to the mining waste that we are now discussing dumping in Repparfjord. What one has previously viewed as waste is resources that can get a market if we start betting money on the right horse. Norway is good at petroleum because we have invested knowledge and money on petroleum. Therefore, the green shift requires two things: sustainability and the sustainability of ecosystems will be the framework for further economic development, and Norwegian resources will now have the same priority as we have been using in the last decades. It involves risks, but also far greater opportunities. Norwegian oil bets will lose against climate change. Norway has the knowledge, the natural resources and the renewable energy, and we also have the capital, but we have lacked the will to switch to green. We'll do something about that. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of our two loose proposals that have been put forward in the matter, and to include these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e865	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e870	My question is that Norway is a small country, but yet we are very good at and world-leading in environmentally friendly production in many sectors. Norwegian petroleum industry is one of the world's leading industries, and very much land-based industry also has a very environmentally friendly production and is world-leading within its segment – they produce very environmentally friendly. My question to the MDG is: why will the MDG not be involved in securing Norwegian industrial workplaces, while at the same time these workplaces are part of and bring down global emissions overall?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e877	Now there is also a discussion of whether the Norwegian petroleum industry is more environmentally friendly than the petroleum extraction and technology associated with it in other countries. But that added to it, the Green Party believes that the best way to preserve the jobs we have, and the technology and knowledge we have, is to start planning for the transition that we are not alone in believing that Norway must enter, and that it is already inside. We believe that it is a much better idea to start moving that focus, the resources and the knowledge now systematically into what we want to build up, instead of focusing more on an industry that we know the world is turning away from, and the energy carriers that we know are creating climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e882	Thanks for the MDG response. However, there is a great deal of land-based industry that is going to produce products that are not part of the oil industry but that are still very world-leading on its programmes and that will be part of the green shift for many decades. Nevertheless, the MDG recommends that such enterprises should not be part of the Norwegian labour market in the future. My point is that the green shift, which we all see we must have, will necessarily take a very long time. Does the MDG not see that very much Norwegian industrial production is actually the key to the green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e887	I think it must be due to a misunderstanding if the representative of the Right believes that the Greens want to end industries on land in Norway that can be involved and contribute to the green shift. That's exactly what we want to bet on. That's exactly why we're trying to point out some of the values, the direction choices, we think Norway needs to take, and suggest that we start doing it, instead of waiting for it to happen by itself. Land-based jobs in the new, green, renewable industry are intended to benefit and build up, for example, by: establishes a Bionova, a fund, which may contribute to risk capital for part of the new knowledge and technology such as: Our new NIBIO research institute is now going to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e892	The Green Party is also concerned with climate, as SV. And the Green Party is also in favour of introducing a number of charges for those who contribute negatively to climate accounting. But then I also assume that the Green Party will make it a positive contribution to the environmental accounts. When one knows that Norwegian agricultural land binds 13 times more CO2 than the whole of Norway's emissions, I expect the Green Party to propose that agriculture should be paid climate allowances. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e902	Human activity creates greenhouse gas emissions. It also understands the Green Party, so we do not believe that the basis for the problem of climate change in Norway and in the world comes primarily from agriculture. However, it is a fact that agriculture has both a way to go in terms of direct climate action and also accounts for some greenhouse gas emissions due to meat production. That is why the Green Party has, among other things, the Green Party. the proposed increased VAT on meat, which we believe is a good way to reduce the consumption of meat at consumer level. It will affect Norwegian meat production and imported meat alike. When it comes to rewards, I would like to refer to the Greens' alternative budget, where we propose some good changes to the tax system for agriculture as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e907	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e911	We live in a country with great opportunities. We have an open economy, a highly educated population and large natural resources, and Norwegian business has been shown to be adaptable for many years. The Norwegian economy is now facing significant challenges. Lower demand from Norwegian pedestal is now dampening economic growth. Unemployment in Norway has increased, particularly in oil-related countries. Lower productivity growth and an ageing population will also dampen future economic growth. The government has therefore provided a budget for work, activity and conversion. The government will strengthen the competitiveness of industry and contribute to increased employment, so that the necessary conversion takes place as soon as possible. The draft budget therefore presented a package of measures for increased employment. It is targeted specifically at those areas that note the impact of lower growth. We follow the situation carefully and have taken action when required. We filled e.g. with 100 million. SEK to the founder’s grant in the South and West when Innovation Norway was running out of money earlier this year. The oil sector will be important for the Norwegian economy for many years to come. But we have to change, so that we can also strengthen ourselves in other areas and become less vulnerable. The 2016 budget proposal contributes to the transformation with a strong commitment to industrial research, innovation and development, tax relief and a strong commitment to road and rail development. In the 2016 state budget, over 1 pst. research and development of GDP. The government has also presented the first long-term plan for research and higher education. The plan is ambitious, and in the state budget we made proposals for the largest research budget ever, both in terms of the number of dollars and as a share of GDP. The Government proposed to increase the funding for nutrient programmes through the Norwegian Research Council by 204 million. kr. The budgetary agreement between the cooperation parties increased by another 40 million. kr. The user-driven innovation are our biggest programme for business. The government has strengthened this programme every year, and it is proposed to strengthen it by an additional 100 million. kr in 2016. We are also proposing to increase the allocation of FORNY2020 and enabling technologies. We see that it works. In 2014, the business community spent about 24.8 billion dollars. SEK for R & D. That's 10 pst. higher than in 2013. Analysis shows that every krona given for research and development through the Research Council's programmes triggers 2 kr at the companies themselves, which in turn generate values of 7 kr. On 12 October I presented Norway's first founding plan. In the plan, we presented a comprehensive entrepreneurial policy, which included three main initiatives: access to capital, knowledge and a culture of foundations. In the draft budget, this has been followed up by a proposal of over 400 million. for start-up measures. Global climate and environmental challenges require a green shift and a shift towards more sustainable production in business. The Government is therefore proposing to increase the appropriations for the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway by 134.5 million. kr. In the budget agreement, the commitment to start-up and innovation has been further strengthened by a new seed fund located in Agder and Telemark and by increasing the allocation of the eco-innovation scheme and Siva. The government is betting on the maritime industry. In May I presented the government's maritime strategy. The Government proposes strengthening the subsidy schemes for the employment of seafarers and embellishment of the operating limits for NIS-registered ships. A total of DKR 1892 000 is proposed. We want to strengthen green shipping and propose to increase the funding for Innovation Norway by a total of 40 million. kr. The funds are allocated to loss funds on loans related to projects for the eco-innovation of ships in short sea shipping and to the establishment of a subsidy scheme for the conditioning of ships. The Government will also impose low-emission and zero technology requirements on ferry offers when the technology so requires. The government has a clear priority for industrial research, business start-ups and innovation, and this has been further strengthened through the budgetary agreement between the government parties on the Stortinget, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Norway is facing significant challenges, but also fantastic opportunities. This budget responds to these challenges and equips us for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e937	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e940	Equal opportunities in business are important. Recruiting from all over the population produces better results than just recruiting from half. The councils said to VG December 8th, about the new head of Telenor: ‘It is serious if it turns out that no women were in the final round of the process towards finding a new head of the group.’ The council demanded clarification from Telenor and left a clear impression that she was not informed about this by Telenor. On the VG online yesterday evening, the Council of State said that she was already informed on 4 May that there were three men who were to be presented to the board the following day. According to Mæland, the women were out before the final round was started. Why didn't the council tell the truth about the information she got in May, before last night, but rather gave the impression not to be informed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e954	It is fascinating what the Labour Party is using an important budget debate for. I've always told you what's true, that I was informed about Telenor's recruitment process. I was until May 4th in the belief that women were part of that process. The day before my appointment, I was told that the position that was prepared by a unanimous recruitment committee was three men, I was surprised. I told you. But it's not like I'm interfering with such a process. It would be completely unheard of and contrary to our ownership principles. What happened in the final phase is, of course, an interesting debate. I can see that I thought until 5 May that women were there. They weren't, and they told me that on May 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e961	This is about the exercise of state ownership and the kind of trust there is between the owner, here the council, and the company in which you have interests. Now, for many days, there has been a debate on what information has given. Does the Council of State think that it represents a good exercise of ownership that only yesterday evening from the owner came to the track that so vital information that was given on May 4th was actually given to the owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e966	We totally disagree with the description that I understand that Aaser wanted to give Today's Business to move the focus from what is a question, namely whether it was women's interview – whether there were women with it. I have received that information, and I have informed both the media and now the Stortinget. So it wasn't women with the day of employment. It is not essential in this case, but it is what process. So this has been repeated on a case-by-case basis and after an interview. We do not point to gender, we do not point to the person, but we point to the process, and that is what I have done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e971	We are now discussing a budget where the government has wanted to renew its mandate and sell itself into Telenor, so it is obvious that the way in which the Council acts as owner is important and relevant to the debate we now have. Like the representative of Storberget, I wonder when Head of the Board of Directors Aaser on 21 May said to the NRK that there had been women with all the way into the final round – which obviously had not been – and something it was obvious that the Council of State was familiar with. Did the state council bring this up with Telenor in any way, or did it feel a need to correct the wrong impression given there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e976	I can only repeat – I perceive that both Aaser and I have perceived the final round to be on May 4th. I was briefed on May 4th on what was going to happen on May 5th. Again, the important thing is which process has been. My surprise was great when I discovered that no women were hired, but it was a decision that had been made and that I had to deal with. So I kind of problematized it. The debate has been on whether there have been women at all in the process – whether there have been women at all in the final round like both Aaser and I have defined it – until 4 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e981	Another aspect of this case is that a very important company in which the state is a major owner has lived for a long time both without the director and with a board that the council has said ‘has done too bad a job in this matter’, which is the quote from the VG. This case is a serious corruption case. At the same time, in recent days, the Council of State has been quite critical of the board of directors in the management of employment. My question is, When can we expect Telenor to have a director – possibly a new board? And does the Council of State see the need for – in the turbulent period in which Telenor is now – that one has a director and a board that has full trust from the owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e986	It is true that Telenor has a board of directors and a functioning board of directors, but I am very busy getting a new board of directors in place. So that's how the representative knows, that I'm not the one picking the board of directors, it's a nomination committee that does -- they set up a business meeting. They have also worked on the blast since this became a situation, and I hope we can clarify this very soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e991	110 000 people are employed in the maritime industry. We know that Norwegian maritime competence is essential to ensure the value creation and development of our maritime clusters. Our maritime industry is in strong international competition, and we now see that the global market situation is changing rapidly, and that Norwegian maritime industry is in a very demanding time. Ships are placed in storage; employees are permitted. In a demanding time, it is important that we strengthen the maritime framework conditions, and then a rapid follow-up of the maritime strategy is important. It is very good that the government today has announced that there will be changes in the speed limitation area from 1 January 2016, but there is uncertainty about the net pay scheme. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that the advances in the net pay scheme will enter into force in the first semester of 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e997	We fully agree with the challenges for the maritime sector, so it has been important for the government to present a maritime strategy – which has also been followed up in the Stortinget. I am pleased with the question because it has obviously attached itself to an idea that there is slowness in the department that makes it impossible for us to introduce the new rules from 1 January – of course not. We have had clear regulatory changes, but they have to be approved in ESA. I had a meeting with the ESA presidency in November, and I was very clear that from the Norwegian side this is the most important thing. It's urgent to get this in place, but we know at the same time that we need to have approval for what we're now introducing. I hope that we will – I have no reason to believe anything else – but it has to be done formally correctly. This is a competitive industry. All countries will follow the conditions imposed by national authorities, and we also know that other countries are changing their regimes now. I hope this happens as soon as possible, and at least I have asked ESA to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1002	There are exciting things going on abroad in the business world. In Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Denmark and Sweden, there is a strong commitment to what Germany calls Industry 4.0, where a new technology is introduced that will change the whole way we think about production, and where one can – perhaps – bring back much more industry to its home country. When it comes to mining, which must now be expanded with the whole mineral field, a few words about green mines, urban mining, etc. allow you to take advantage of much more than that. only one percentage of the take-off masses to be exploited by the Nussir project. We are now also seeing very exciting paces in areas within the marine sector, where one exploits much more of the raw materials, etc. But in Norway, this kind of interesting thing doesn't happen. Now the government has been sitting for two years, and I see very little trace of this in the budget. When will the government follow after the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1009	I totally disagree with the description. There are amazing things happening in Norway, and I would recommend the representative to travel around, meet the Norwegian industry and watch the quantum leaps they're actually doing. On the government side, we have followed this up through massive investment in research, knowledge and innovation over the two years we have been in government. Then there will also be a big message about industry that looks at trends, framework conditions – where we also take lessons from other countries, and where we try to put the framework conditions further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1016	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1019	Work for everyone is job number one. What Norway we know today is a result of how, as a society, we have been able to transform ourselves into great changes and upheavals. One important option is that by political decisions, we have ensured that our natural resources — water, oil, fish — are managed by the community, for the benefit of the community. Just as the solutions from the past characterize Norway today, so it is the choices we make today that will shape Norway for tomorrow. Norway is and has always been a sea country. The sea gives us food and energy and is an important transport year that contributes significantly to the creation of value and employment. The story of Norway is the story of sea interaction. The story of Norway is the story of how we've jointly met the challenges and grasped the opportunities we've been given and created. The story of Norway is the proximity to the sea, which always has the character of people throughout the country, our history and our economy. As a marine knowledge nation, we have a responsibility both for marine research and for the sustainable management of our natural resources. The purpose of the Workers' Party is that Norway should be the world's leading maritime nation. To achieve this goal, we need to invest in all parts of the marine value chain, and we need to further process much more in Norway. The working party will bet on the natural advantages that the sea, fjords and the long coastline give us to secure value creation and employment. Therefore, we put in powerful packages before fresh fish bets, before stock research and before bioeconomy. And we have to see the health, we have to raise our eyes. Marine nutrition operates in a global market and benefits from the low crown price, and the government's Christmas gift is for the third year in a row of record use of oil money. This is also the closest government to come up with a good framework. Marine nutrition needs — and fortifies — good, long-term and robust framework conditions. We can't be the best in everything, but if we focus on it, we can be the best in areas where Norway has special means of happiness, where we have special skills and strong nutrition clusters. Norway is and will continue to be a leader in maritime food, maritime business, energy, environmental technologies and travel. We also have special arrangements for happiness before the blue and green biotechnology. Before fisheries and aquaculture, the Labour Party has come with a powerful package of nearly 130 million. Total kr. Food surveillance will be strengthened by 20 million. kr, something like is important in order to ensure better control of the aquaculture industry and the situation related to salmonmus. The working party also strengthens the fishing ports by 43.5 million. kr. We do not at all support the fact that responsibility for the fishing ports is to be transferred to the municipalities, and we believe that investment in and maintenance of the fishing ports should be a state responsibility. All of this is also followed up in this budget. We are also strongly critical of the way in which the government has treated self-anxiety. We propose to reintroduce support for self-anxiousness and permission of 10 million. kr to it. And we're strengthening the funds that are targeting young people, such as Set Seabones and Fishcrumbs. The public must contribute more to research and innovation that can promote change and strengthen competitiveness. Difor Permits Workers' Party 550 million. kr more than the government for researching and developing new jobs. Then industrial companies and boats will also be able to benefit from the fact that we are filling in the regional development funds of 200 million. kr and strengthens the whole chain before entrepreneurs, including with an acceleration programme of 600 million. kr and the environmental technology scheme of 116 million. Extra kroner. I also want to bring forward Transferit, a technology and competence transfer program, which we're strengthening by 35 million. kr. This will in particular benefit the aquaculture industry, but also the agricultural industry and fleet side. The sea, the marine, the seafood, it's the most important chapter on the future industries in Norway. The working party shows in action that we are busy with the marine food industry – and not just in party speeches. This is a powerful bet around the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1047	Work, activity and conversion are the headlines of the State budget of the year. This has also been our mantra for a number of years now. From the last few years of opposition to the last three budgets we have delivered, we find that all our draft budgets show the same direction. A strong, oily economy showed us early that it would be challenging if we had a rapid decline in this activity. The ability of our business to compete in the global arena, but also the ability and willingness of business to make the necessary transition, is central to the budgets we are now delivering. There is no reason to underestimate or explain the challenges of low oil prices. The oil price today is down to one third of what it was two years ago. This gives oil companies clear challenges, it gives the supplier industry clear challenges, and it gives other industries that have high activity value creation in the oil industry, obvious challenges. Although the level of investment in 2016 within the sector is at the level of what it was in 2013, all have to deal with a shorter and more unpredictable investment horizon. It presents challenges for businesses to plan their own skills gap, their own investments — yes, it presents challenges for businesses to find their own way forward. Our answer to this is to facilitate a more research-advanced business. Business needs to be able to put new knowledge into practice. Therefore, strengthening the User-Controlled Innovation Arenas and the TaxFUNN is an important tool. Therefore, more funding for research is an important tool. The Renewable Programme facilitates new ideas. People who have to leave businesses, or good ideas in businesses, can get through this programme a simpler way to realize. A distinction between the Workers' Party and the government parties in particular is enough that we believe to a much greater extent that business itself can pick the winners. We hear the Lawyers of the Workers' Party about their accelerator program, but it's a program we don't know if they've placed within or outside of what they're capable of financing in their draft budget. The fact that politicians look better at driving business forward is, in our opinion, a misappropriation. That is why we believe that policy should facilitate change and conversion. Therefore, lower taxes and tax incentives are a better tool to give business competitiveness. Business-oriented measures and tax measures are active business policies. One feature of the drop in oil activity we are already seeing is the shift of competence — from oil-related business to other industries. This available competence combined with the weak krone price is already reflected in increased exports from other industries. Travel and seafood are two industries that serve these factors. The research contributions of our budgets will therefore ensure that we take a step further both in the tourism industry and in the maritime food industry. Then I register that the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the notes accuse us of cutting off government-funded stock research in the marine sector. This is not correct – but the arrangements in the budgets are different than they were in the past. It does not reduce the effort of the Marine Research Institute or public funding in that area. We provide funding for research, so that seafood can continue its growth and development. Optimistic estimates say that this industry can multiply its value creation in the years to come. Both the Right and the Right policies share this optimism. The challenges in the field of aquaculture are addressed in this budget, in line with the previous decisions taken in the field of aquaculture notification. It is therefore strange when I hear the representative Heggø accuse the Right of ignoring reports that we do not like. The NOU from the Tveterås Committee, which was set up by the Workers' Party, forms the basis for the maritime food industry message we are going to deal with after Christmas. I have heard after the sample delivered its report, at least all three of the Fisheries Policy spokespersons from the Workers' Party are very critical of the sample's report. Is it the case that the Workers' Party believes that that report should be the basis for the policy to be promoted in the future, or is it such that that report should provide the basis for policy-making? To the right, collecting knowledge, then promoting knowledge-based policies, is an important principle. It must be allowed to ask – after the intervention by the representative Heggø – whether this is a principle that the Workers' Party can also expect to follow. Work, activity and conversion are the headlines of the year’s government budget proposal. It was reinforced during the negotiations in Stortinget. This debate shows that our draft budgets point in that direction, and that is the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1070	It's time to set up the status now in the harvest. The government has been running for about two years, and we are now on our way into 2016. I was going to look at the status of Norwegian agriculture and the farmer and the Norwegian business community and the business community. I remember very well when I was running a campaign, that when it came to the Bondelag – especially in Buskerud, but also nationally – there was no way how bad it would be if the Advance Party came into government. When it became known that the Progress Party came into government, there was no doubt that the Farmers believed this would destroy agriculture. Now you can look a little bit more closely at how it has gone about agriculture. Has it become worse, has it become greater decline now than it was under the red-green government? No, it doesn't – on the contrary. For example, there are over 3000 dairy farmers who have done so well with the Advance Party and the Right in government – with support lots – that they want to produce more milk than ever before. It's optimism. The figures for the purchase of milk quotas in the 2015 trading round have arrived, and they show an increased interest in the purchase of quotas, including in my county, Buskerud, where there has been a low interest in the purchase of milk quotas in the past. But this turned out in 2014, and overall for the whole of Norway, I understand that there has been an increase of 34 pst. from 2014. I also have some other examples – of increased income. In the last two years, the income of farmers has increased much more than the income of other occupational groups in society. During this period, one annual work increased by 47 000 kroner before the agricultural deduction, including an increase in income of 48 900 kroner for farmers, while other professional groups increased their income by 29 700 kroner over the same period. Another example that shows that there is increased belief in agriculture and increased interest is that last year the number of applicants for natural uses increased by more than 5 pst. Other professions only increased by 1 pst. Almost all agricultural studies at universities and colleges are full, and there are waiting lists for several studies. There has also been increased freedom for the farmer. Farmers can now benefit from increased freedom under this government, but especially when it comes to opening up the sale of alcohol from the farm. That means that tourists no longer have to go to the Wine Monopoly to buy the pages they have just tasted. This will undoubtedly lead to increased farm tourism and is likely to lead to more side producers also investing in exports. Such exports of agricultural products were unimaginable a few years ago, at least in special bonding environments, but now we see more and more people who have already started with it, and more who will start with it. So to the rest of Norwegian business in general and the business community. Norway is now ranked as one of the world’s best countries to trade and business. Oslo is considered to be one of the world’s best entrepreneurial and innovation hubs. In the 2016 government budget, a wide range of measures were put forward by the government to improve business start-ups and innovation policy, and through the work of the Business Committee, it has strengthened in many areas. For example, I can. mention strong commitment to the maintenance and upgrading of research vessels, strong commitment to establishing grants, strong commitment to the environmental technology scheme, strong commitment to pre-seed funds and more seed funds, strong commitment to business-oriented research and strong commitment to research-based commercialisation through FORNY2020. In conclusion, I would like to mention a few words about what perhaps has not been mentioned at all today, perhaps not so much in the committee's position. One is Invest in Norway, which is a department in Innovation Norway and has its website invinor.no, which does everything it can to attract foreign capital to Norway. There was one employee there two years ago. It has now doubled – or perhaps more than doubled – there are 2.5 employees there now. But I want to show you to our neighboring country Sweden, where you have over 40 years of work doing the same thing. It is appropriate to insert the impact forward. I am also very pleased that the founder plan of the government mentions this fasttrack scheme for entrepreneurs, Start in Norway, and I hope this can also include foreign investors. Otherwise, there are many other interesting areas that do not fall within the budget of the Economic and Social Committee but belong to other budgets. You have social entrepreneurship, you have Young Entrepreneurship that goes through several departments, and you have the foreign service, where I hope there will also be better dialogue between the Minister for Enterprise and the Minister for Foreign Affairs when someone is considering setting up an embassy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1093	The working party is very clear in its alternative budget that work for everyone is job number one. Unemployment is currently high and rising. There are many who attend Christmas without having a job to go to after New Year, and in particular the situation in the South-West is dramatic. As one of many examples, I can mention that no later than Monday, National Oilwell announced another 900 redundancies on South Africa, where I come from. The company, which is one of the engines in the South, has reduced its 4,500 employees to about half. Valuable competences are lost, and in addition, all the ringing effects this has for the region. In this situation, we also see that we have a government that does not take unemployment seriously. Active enterprise policy, with targeted, industry-specific and geographically targeted measures, is being abandoned for the benefit of business-neutral and nationwide instruments. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has presented a package of measures of around EUR 10 million. Three billion. kr more than the government's proposal. It is a package that hits the situation in the South-West very well. But what do we see that the government is doing? In my opinion, we see a government that does not have the ability to prioritise, which is consistently in deficit with measures against a record high number of unemployed, and the government's belief in the wealth tax code of the richest is totally flawed. Even three Progress Party ordered sample reports slaughter the government's policy in this area, we could read in Today's Business on December 3. In addition to providing tax cuts to the richest, they also introduce taxes on termination benefits and commuting allowances to ordinary workers, and that in a situation where we need increased commuting. What we need is targeted action to address a situation that is largely confined to a part of business, and mainly in the South-West. Overall, this is a budget that, in my view, does little for unemployment and little for the future, but much for increasing differences in Norway. No later than Monday, the Stortinget voted in favour of a proposal from the Workers' Party to extend the permit code to 52 weeks, as the Stoltenberg government did during the financial crisis. The answer this time, as in the past, is that you follow the situation closely. What does such a statement help those who are unemployed, while at the same time we now have the highest unemployment registered in 20 years? Before the elections in the fall, the government went high on the track and marketed that they had a package of measures of 4 billion. kr. Now ask more: How much is left of this package? We haven't got an answer to that yet. In any case, it has been greatly reduced by the additional proposition and in the negotiations with the cooperation parties. The question will be: When will the Minister of Industry come up with concrete, targeted measures to raise employment? One area in which our party is also concerned is the mineral industry. This is an industry for which my party has great ambitions. The government has said the same thing, but words and actions are not always the same. It is now proposed to cut the full NGU allocation of 25 million. kr for mineral mapping in North Norway and South Norway. The Labour Party shares NGU's concern for this cut, and we propose an increase of 10 million. kr in our alternative budget. I feel that Ola Borten Moe has illustrated the situation around the mineral industry well when he says: «Northmen like to use new technologies but reject mining industries that provide the raw materials.» We are very critical of the management of the changes relating to the capital expansion of Government, where one makes a strategic change to the previous decision of the Storting on capital expansion by means of a budgetary settlement. Yes, one of them almost cancels Statkraft's further investment internationally, which in turn creates uncertainty about the company's future investments in Norway. This is a management that weakens the role of the State as a serious and constructive owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1113	It was not the way things were going to go wrong with Norwegian agriculture, it was said when the Right-Fremskrit party government took over in 2013. How's the score now, after two years? The green sector is one of the success stories of agriculture, with strong growth in recent years. The industry has demonstrated a capacity and willingness to convert which has been formidable in a demanding market with increasing imports, demands for increased efficiency in order to keep costs down and changing consumer preferences. Green sector producers have experienced adventurous growth in the number of products, increased diversity, improved quality and increased professionalism. In order to facilitate larger and more efficient productions in the green sector, in the agricultural sector, in 2014 and 2015, we have removed the structural differentiation in the area grants for vegetables, fruit and berries and made changes in regional subsidies for fruit, vegetables and potatoes. The result so far is increased production. I want to give praise to the industry itself, who sees the opportunities and follows up, among other things. with the establishment of the GROV of 100 million. kr, to be used for further development. Another success story is the production of lamb. After several years of under-covering, there is now market coverage of Norwegian produced lamb. Manufacturers have made good use of market opportunities and the job targeted and targeted to increase production. Earlier this year, agreements were also concluded between Norwegian producers and French and Swiss delicacies importers on exports of fenal years for sale in some of Paris’ best delicacies and restaurants. Good income opportunities are a prerequisite for increased food production and for skilled businessmen and young people to view agriculture as a tempting future job. Agricultural income trends have been higher in the last year for agriculture than in other groups, contrary to what the critics claimed to be happening two years ago. Not later than two days ago, NIBIO provided figures for 2014 showing a very good trend in agricultural incomes in general and in the cereals sector in particular. We know that 2015 became an even better grain year with adventurous good crops. Never before has there been as much grain produced per deer as this year. Another indication that Norwegian agriculture is going well is that more than 3000 milk producers wanted to expand their production by purchasing a milk quota in 2015. Compared to last year, which was also good, there was increased demand in almost all states, also in counties where there has traditionally been little demand. This is very joyful and shows an industry that has faith in the future. It is my clear view that the 2016 draft budget supports this development. Farmers in Norway are good at seeing the opportunities — and taking advantage of them. In a small village in Sunnfjord in Sogn and Fjordane, we find e.g. Against Operagard. The small farm today offers a unique combination of farm accommodation, local food and innovative cultural experiences and appears to be one of the most unique and innovative travel businesses in the country. In 2014, the company had four annual works employed and a turnover of 4.5 million. kr. It is an important contributor to increased employment and value creation in a small community. The government has increased the appropriations allocated to Innovation Norway to facilitate several entrepreneurs. The production of safe food is essential for a strong national agricultural sector. In an international context, Norwegian animal health is at the top of the world. It's important for food security. Fresh animals also need little medicine. We therefore use less antibiotics in animal production than most other countries, and we have little antibiotic resistance. But we don't rest on our laurels. Therefore, the government strengthens research, increases monitoring and has established its own compensation mechanism to reduce the production loss for pig producers who have to kill the crew due to MRSA. In line with the budgetary agreement, we will review this compensation mechanism. With this government, we have put in a new gear in the fight for better animal welfare. We have established a separate section of the Food Safety Authority, increased the number of inspections, given the possibility to issue an infringement fee to those who break the legislation, and set up a trial project with animal police. The budgetary agreement extends this pilot project to Rogaland, in addition to the South Trøndelag. I would like to sum up by saying that Norwegian agriculture has gone very well in the last two years. It is time for the Workers' Party and the Center Party to be able to enjoy this development. Now you have to stop talking down this industry and realize that changes are needed to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1143	I was about to say – all hearts rejoice over everything that goes well. But I would like to dwell on what the majority says in their remarks in the budget position, especially related to the vulnerability that many think we might be at risk of experiencing in Norwegian food production in the future. I would say that thanks to a recording by the Christian People's Party, a majority of the committee has gathered to ask the government about: ‘to draw up a thorough risk and vulnerability analysis which includes food production, food supply and preparedness as part of the societal security perspective’. From the representatives of the Party of Advancement and the Right in the Committee, it is described as ‘necessary’. [[and partly wasted with resources]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1153	In a troubled world, I realize that many people are worried about many different questions. This government has carried out two different investigations to address, inter alia, the need for: cereal stocks – that was the first investigation, and in the second we had a vulnerability analysis for food grain supply. Both of these studies showed that it would not be a problem to get enough food and food in the future. Then, of course, I take note that a majority want us to go in and carry out a risk and vulnerability analysis where food production is also included. Together with the Minister of Industry, who is responsible for the coordination of food security, I want to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way and time and follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1160	I'm glad of that answer. I believe that the Council of State does not take action and follow up if there is waste of resources. So until that description the Minister of Agriculture in his speech gave of Norwegian agriculture. That's how many farmers run very well, and we see positive developments in many areas. It is not the Labour Party that disagrees. When it comes to income issues, the Council of State was pleased that the level of income was increasing, at least for some farmers. In the view of the Workers' Party, this is due, inter alia, to: that the ambitions of the Progress Party on, among others, have not been put into practice. to cut substantially the agricultural balances. Does such a positive trend in income mean that the Council of State has abandoned the plans to cut significantly in transfers to Norwegian farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1167	I just want to comment on the previous that of course this government follows up a majority on the Stortinget. As far as income development and future agricultural settlements are concerned, there is of course something I cannot comment on right now. We'll get back to that. But in the years we've been running, including next year, we've increased the agricultural appropriations by 40 million. kr. There's very little related to what's been done in the last eight years. What is then the fasititude is that despite the fact that we have used very modest funds over the agricultural agreement, nothing if you look at this year, production has increased. Then it's not about how much money a user spends, but it's about how a user spends it. It's that we've stimulated increased production, and it's just becoming an increase in production. That's why I'm very happy that in this year's agricultural settlement, both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and most parties are behind the changes that were made in 2004, which were then opposed. Now there's a bunch of stuff that sees that those grips were right, and I'm really happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1174	The green sector is an exciting sector, which I have also spent some time in this autumn, and one of the things that I've at least got completely clear about is that they live in competition. But customs protection is important. I want to use this line on antibiotic resistance, which is a serious threat to public health, and it is good to hear that the Council of State does not rest on its laurels, as was said in the post. If I don't remember completely wrong, it's probably the way the World Health Organization has said that the antibiotic resistance challenge is one of the biggest in the future. If we lose control of MRSA, we have a big challenge, and the pig farmers are in our first line. I have noticed that the Council of State says that the compensation system we have today is a rough one. The representative Heimdal disagrees with the council here, but now we're going to have a review of the arrangement, and she heard in our post what we want with this review. But my question is, what dialogue does she want with Norsvin in this review?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1181	With regard to the compensation scheme that the pig farmers have, I can quite clearly say that there are no other productions that have such good compensation or compensation schemes as you have within that production. It was also important to get in place, precisely because we saw that this is a problem that has spread and that we need to get control of. That's why we've also been working hard to increase research and increase the commitment of the Food Authority and, to some extent, the Veterinary Institute. They've done a phenomenal job, I really want to brag about them. So, of course, we're going to review this arrangement now. There we are already looking at these standard rates for replacing animal values after slaughter. There we see that there may be a need to do something, because it is in a way a three-tiered compensation scheme, a sheep for animals that have to be killed, for the costs of cleaning up buildings and for production losses. Here's several things, so we're going to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1188	The center party is looking forward to everything that's going well. When one was sitting and listening to the statements of the Council of State, a few impressions could be that it was her profit that NIBIO was able to report figures showing that agricultural incomes have risen from 2013 to 2014. Then it's very interesting to read on the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's website. It explains this: ‘The good result can be explained mainly by weather and wind.’ Then the state council has to decide whether to assume responsibility for it or not. There is no doubt that the Council of State and her and the government's policies around the country create a lot of uncertainty. One of the things that is now creating uncertainty is the government-appointed Green Tax Commission, which has proposed to reduce production aid for red meat. Then I ask, does the Council agree with the Central Party that increasing imports of red meat is a bad way to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1202	In terms of profit, it is in this case that I must at least share it with the Lord of Spring, who was very mild last year. When it comes to creating uncertainty, I think part of the uncertainty that is created is because it is painted a picture that this government wants agriculture to be bad. So that's the opposite of what we want. We want to create an agriculture for the future that is viable and that makes the youth want to go into it. That's what this is about. Then we have to make changes. I agree with the representative Pollestad that reducing production in Norway and importing more meat, on the contrary, will lead to increased global emissions. When we look at how much emissions a Norwegian cow has, then part of the cows we import beef from have far higher emissions. So in a global climate perspective, Norwegian production is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1211	Another issue that has been clarified in this budget position is that a law on good trading practices is being rejected. This has taken two years without much happening in the field. So you've spent two years deciding not to do any of the world's things. We hear from the actors in the agricultural and food chains that they have realized that the Council of State, Listhaug, has worked to enforce a law of good trade, and that the conclusion we are now seeing is that the Council of State has been overrun. My question is, why did it have to take two years? What has one spent these two years other than arguing internally between the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture about such a law or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1218	The representative Pollestad is incredibly concerned about creating a picture that I am constantly being run over. It's almost becoming a little bit of a day-to-day. The most important thing for me is to make sure that we have a good competitive situation on the groceries market, and I will praise the food chains. What happens now is that Norwegian consumers can buy Christmas food for a cheap money. It's incredibly good for all those who struggle in society. So it's like there's multiple roads to Rome. Making your own law isn't necessarily the best way. Many people would say that in Norway we have enough laws and regulations, so it is perhaps better to make changes to the law we already have, namely the Competition Act. That's what we're going to add up to. Then it is natural that it is the Minister of Industry who is now leading the work, she is responsible for the competition law, but we are of course going to engage and take an interest in it, because we are very committed to ensuring good competition in the food market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1225	SV is very concerned about getting new green jobs in renewable raw materials, especially of wood. This is necessary because we need very many jobs, including industrial ones, in renewables that do not damage the climate. In Norway, we are leaning too heavily on an oil industry that needs to be phased out if we are to save the climate and the basis on which the Minister of Agriculture will also produce food. Then it's very strange to see that the government is now for the third consecutive year: first year they cut industrial use of tiles, then they cut in tree-based innovation, and they've cut off subsidies for the use of wood – with all the tools. However, oil is being put on freshly both with research resources and with good tax regimes. How can it be that a mature, polluting industry has more subsidies and benefits than a future industry that is climate friendly and can provide us with many jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1235	I do not know myself in this description at all. After this government took over, for example, we have increased the appropriations for forestry roads by 75 pst. in two years. This means that we can extract forests from Norwegian forests, use the raw material and help to plant new forests that bind more CO2. We've increased the appropriations for lumber marques, and I want to praise the Christian People's Party and the Left to increase that pot and contribute to it being further increased in the budget for next year, because it also contributes to creating more jobs and more activity in the forest. Then there's also 33 million. kr for fertiliser, denser planting and for forest processing in the budget adopted today. So there's a lot to enjoy on the forest side. I look forward to this industry growing forward and contributing to more jobs out in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1245	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1248	Norway is in the most challenging situation in several decades. The oil price has fallen, and unemployment has increased in the West and South West, although Nav figures show that nationally and in some parts of the country there are actually positive figures. The government has presented a very good budget proposal which has been very well received both by different academic and university environments and not least by the social partners. The government’s budget proposal provided a strong incentive for sustainable transition to create new viable jobs, while providing a range of measures to improve employment in the short term. Several have lost their jobs. Families and individuals experience insecurity. Life for those who become unemployed poses challenges. I'm talking to a guy from Stavanger. He would like to get a job at Hedmarken or Nordland, and he was very willing to commute for a period of time. His great challenge in the long run was who he would sell the house to, or who he might rent it out to. He realized that he couldn't commute the rest of his life – having two houses didn't go. Uncertainty in the labour market in the South of the West has led to the fall of housing markets in some of the regions that are the hardest. The oil industry is about more than just workplaces. The challenge is that we need long-term good solutions to create new viable jobs. It is not only useful with publicly funded jobs or subsidized industries, as the Labour Party advocates. We must have private value creation as a foundation in the welfare state. It is then about having a forward-looking industrial policy and a competitive force and creating profitable and good jobs. Then it's not about being delivered 'too little, too late' in this year's budget, as the rhetoric of the Workers' Party has been. No, it's about the Labour Party never delivered and prioritised the necessary measures to achieve the necessary conversion, as the Government Party and the Left and Christian People's Party have now done. In the middle of this, we have had a major refugee and migration crisis, which has been very demanding, and many new people have come to this country in the hope of getting a better life and perhaps a job. The situation requires political responsibility. It is important for all of us that Norway is steered safely. Fortunately, we have a solid government, and the cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party have contributed to us getting a good budget in the light of all the challenges we have. I think the government has delivered very well, although the opposition today criticizes the government and is not a few. This has been a good change in the pace of agricultural policy, which has resulted in a historic threat to the future of agriculture among farmers. Never before have there been more farmers' training seekers, never before has there been a greater demand for milk quotas. Never before have investment ambitions been bigger in agriculture. Not least, Christmas food prices have never been relatively low before. Our good fisheries minister has been at the forefront of a forward-looking policy for growth in the aquaculture sector and a fisheries and research policy that provides a future for both fisheries and processing. The Minister of Industry has provided policies for innovation and innovation. Two, two, two, two. kr is now applied to these areas rather than when the red-green controls. This is a result. Several cluster programmes, such as NCE and GCE, are established. More seed funds are in place. User-driven innovation is strengthened. TAX FEATURES are strengthened. POLLUTION is strengthened. Environmental technology systems have been greatly improved, and Innovation Norway is being improved and strengthened in several areas. This is clearly a budget for work, activity and conversion. So, more people have come to realize that the Labour Party has been tempted to pursue some kind of over-the-counter policy. The focus seems to be on spending money, and not necessarily on seeing the effect of money usage. It is not strange that the Labour Party lacks a lot of money to balance its budget. In the financial debate last week, the Labour Party was challenged on how they would cut to balance the budget. The whole Stortinget testified that the representative Gahr Støre could not answer this. Is it in the chapter of the nutrition committee that it is to be cut? It would have been nice if we had found out today where they would now grab hold of them and take them cut. The fact is that the government parties together with the Left and Christian People's Party have been some about a historically good budget for work, activity and conversion that is well adapted to the situation that the country is in now. It is these parties that combine the responsibility to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and create new permanent jobs until all those who are now seeing become unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1278	Norway is a fantastic country with great opportunities. But we also have challenges, which we are debating today. The fall in oil prices reduces activity in important parts of the economy, and unemployment increases. Norway had the lowest unemployment rate in Europe after the financial crisis. Now the situation is different. While unemployment is falling in Europe, it is rising in Norway. Mostly, there is a rise in unemployment in the West. In my home country, More and Romesdal, unemployment has risen by 35 p.m. since October last – 35 pst.Oh, my God! It is the oil-related industries such as shipyards, shipping companies and suppliers to the oil industry that labor the most. Work for everyone is job number one for the Workers' Party. We believe that the government does not take the negative development seriously enough, and comes too late with action. In our alternative state budget, we in the Workers' Party have proposed many measures that will be good, including for the hard hit West: the study of temporary wells, the maintenance of ferry offers, measures to implement more environmentally friendly technology, several action areas, increased apprenticeship grants, several study places and a more flexible permit regulation – to mention something. We have also proposed strengthening the net pay system, which is important to ensure the competitiveness of the scheme, and ensuring essential maritime competence in an industry that is in a difficult situation. When the County Committee of More and Romesdal County gave an opinion on the State budget earlier this autumn, the Workers' Party was given a unanimous assembly, including the Right and Advance Party, in the call for a more flexible law on leave, as requested by the employees' and employers' organisations. But the government says no. It is sad that the government ignores clear signals from both social organisations and private parties in the country. The government should listen more to those who wear their shoes than to cling to political chauffeurs. The consequence of government saying no to more flexible permitting legislation is that businesses are losing important competences that they need now, during the transition and for the future. At the same time, the workers and their families, who encounter uncertain times, get tough. I don't understand why the government is going to ride this chauffeur. The Prime Minister’s response to the demand for more flexible rules of leave is that the government will not lock labour force to low-profit enterprises in the West. The Prime Minister insulted many managers and employees with this opinion. The Government has partly met the Workers' Party on the proposal for the rescheduling of ferry services. That's good. Now we hope that the government will also turn around and make the law of leave more flexible. Norway needs a government that listens to social organisations. The working party is dedicated to building the whole country. It is therefore important for us to support business activities in the districts as well. Regional development funds are a good tool. Enterprises, municipalities and other actors with good activity plans can contribute to increased value creation and new jobs through access to regional development funds. It is therefore very regrettable that the government has cut heavily in these funds. To illustrate the government's cut, we can once again look at More and Rome's valley. When the Stoltenberg government put in power in 2013, Morene and Romsdal received 126 million. kr in direct regional development funds for the county. In 2016, the government wants to give the county just under 74 million. kr. That's a reduction of over 50 million. kr in a few years – it corresponds to a reduction of nearly 60 pst. The ability of the counties to fulfil their role as regional actors in social and economic development is weakened by the government's cuts. The cuts mean that positive initiatives that can provide work and value creation, in the worst cases, will never see the light of day, because of the government's downside. The government's cut is dramatic and helps to weaken a region that should have been strengthened right now. In the Workers' Party we take responsibility and have added 200 million. kr extra to regional development funds in the budget, which we are pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1304	I want to start by congratulating the government and the Minister of Industry in particular. Jens Stoltenberg never succeeded. We weren't even close to the financial crisis. Norway has now passed Germany and soon we will take the United States again. It was a Right-wing Party government that needed to: Norway is now one of the countries in Europe where unemployment is growing most rapidly. Congratulations - the Minister of Industry must be proud to set new records. Not in 20 years has Norway seen such a high level of unemployment. For those who lose their jobs, the situation is serious. An leave of 4.6 pst. The figures may not sound much, but there are 127 000 individuals, with family, friends and communities, who are now facing great uncertainty about Christmas. I even know several of them from home in Stavanger. It is newly educated students from the University of Stavanger who do not find a job. There are apprentices who are not able to complete their apprenticeship and are without a degree certificate. It is engineers who, after a long professional life, have been thrown out on leave. Misunderstand me correctly: the Labour Party does not believe that the government is responsible for the low oil price, but the government is responsible for the measures to meet the growing unemployment. The Government could set the Workers' Party's alternative budget for inspiration for action. We have a total package of measures of 7 billion. kr, massive measures for active enterprise policy, health technology investment, ferry services, a new technology transfer programme and an accelerator programme for new jobs. But it's not Idea that's hit the government. Norway has a Minister of Industry who, from this pulpit, boasted of a package of measures that the government has cut by a third. We have a prime minister who is from the West but who is passive when unemployment grows, and a government that is silent when the new jobs fail. This is crazy politics. It seems that the government doesn't think it's possible to reverse developments so that we get off the job and create new jobs. Because when the government talks about migration, measures are not followed up. It's classic right-hand side not to have faith in community. I guess that's true right now. The message to 127 000 unemployed people is: Go home and convert yourself! The government is facing increasing unemployment with political games and empty rhetoric. It is the opposition that is the problem when we note that the package of measures has been cut and points out that there will be no new jobs with massive tax cuts. Attack is, as you know, the best defense. Then you do not take responsibility for your own policies. Then it can be forgotten that the founder of the online store completely signed out of the right after the last budget, that the founder plan had so few measures that it has already been forgotten, and that old friends, such as the western owner and major investor Helge Mögster, went into the stranglehold of government policy this fall. In case the Minister of Industry has forgotten Mögster's points, I have included some quotations from Bergen's Official Journal. Most people say: ‘You chose to make it easier to do business in Norway. Instead, it's gotten a lot worse in the last two years. I am extremely disappointed with the government." He goes on to say: ‘Ap has a greater political impact and would bring about policy changes in the difficult situation of large parts of business now. Today's government is unable to implement anything. I voted for Erna from Hordaland during last major elections, because I had faith in her promises in food and tax policy. But that's the last time I vote Right." Mägster's opinions, the requirements of the Swedish Shipowners' Association, the Norwegian Industry and the trade union movement – yes, the list is long – will not be listened to. This state budget is clear evidence of this. We should perhaps do as the Mägster suggests: look at the Labour Party's response to how to deal with the crisis. That's right, as they say, our answer is different from that of the government. We think it is possible to stop the increasing unemployment, but it will require leadership and willingness to face the crisis with concrete measures. For this reason, we propose measures for the unemployed, such as a more cohesive regulatory framework, several action areas, targeted action against youth unemployment, including a NAV Young. Youth will create the business life of the future. A youth leave of over 10 pst. must be top priority to get down. That is why we are also proposing measures to keep the activity up in those sectors that are struggling. We provide ferry services for river ferries, we want wells and technology transfer studies. We are also proposing an active industrial policy for new growth and jobs. So let's see, we're going to have 250 million. kr to an accelerator program, and in our alternative we have investments in health technology, commercialisation of research, investment in bioeconomy – actions that will create new jobs. The government's budget shows that they don't understand Norway. It is therefore very regrettable that the proposals put forward by the Labour Party will today be voted down by those who govern the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1342	We're lucky in Norway. We have a marine nutrition that contributes to healthy food and technology to produce more food to the world. Daily, this makes up 37 million meals to some 140 countries around the world. But the potential is even much greater to create more values and produce even more food than what we do today. At a time when it is subduing in other sectors, we can enjoy high activity and historically good export figures in the fisheries and aquaculture industries. We also experience that the supply industry, which has survived from the oil industry, is now oriented towards the fisheries and aquaculture industry. It is beneficial for both parties. The government's long-term plan for research and the marine master plan that the Prime Minister and I presented this fall are ambitious. The goal is to lift the value creation from the sea. We've taken great values from the sea as long as they've lived in Norway. And we're going to keep doing that. The switchover of the Norwegian economy takes place, among other things: using marine knowledge to increase value creation both in traditional fisheries and aquaculture, and not least in new marine industries. It was the knowledge of the sea from the fisheries that made us world leaders in oil service, and that is the knowledge from, among other things. the oil service industry to take up the farming industry in the next stage. This will enable cross-industry innovation to ensure that Norway continues to be the world leader in marine technology, trigger new jobs and contribute to ensuring the financing of welfare for future generations as well. Next year's budget for the marine industries follows up the government's ambitions. Targeted research and knowledge efforts are being made to ensure future value creation in the maritime food industry. It is now granted over the State budget at the top of 2 billion. kr for marine research. Since the government shift, marine research appropriations have increased by 110 million. kr, and next year we propose to strengthen this further. The Government proposed to increase the appropriations for marine research and research infrastructure by a total of 169.5 million. kr. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left means that the government's proposals are further strengthened by more than 20 million. kr. That's what I'm pleased about, and in sum, this means a considerable effort to create new activity and more jobs in the marine sector. The government has high ambitions for further growth in Norwegian aquaculture. But growth also requires further development of the knowledge base. Therefore, a priority area is the follow-up to the Landfill Communication on Predictable and Sustainable Growth in Norwegian salmon and trout. The government follows this up in the 2016 budget and aims to have the action-based growth system in place by spring 2017. Several places along the coast there is a serious lice situation that creates pressure on the wild and sea trout. Further growth in the farming industry is subject to the control of the lice situation. Therefore, the appropriations for such control and follow-up for the next year are further strengthened. The fish stocks we harvest are large and have increased prevalence. The need for monitoring and resource research is therefore greater than ever. The basis for business activities in the marine sector is the best possible knowledge base on marine resources and on the ecosystem. Therefore, this is a priority area in the maritime effort, through increased appropriations for the activities of the marine research institute in this area and through increased resources for the maintenance and upgrade of marine research vessels. In the field of resource research, both the industry-funded and public resource use are increasing in 2016. We've always lived by the sea. And we're going to do that in the future. That is why we invest in knowledge, research and development. The government is equipping the research infrastructure, we are strengthening resource research, we are expanding the knowledge base to ensure further growth in the aquaculture industry, and we are opening up opportunities for new marine species. This is a budget for work, activity and conversion. High activity in the marine sector will be an important contributor to this. Blue sector investment is also central to the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1368	Waves go high between the fishers on one side and the researchers on the other about the size of the fish population. In party speeches, conferences and speeches, I have been delighted to hear the Minister for Fisheries say several times that increasing research into fish stocks is crucial for getting more knowledge. Nevertheless, we see that the government has not managed to achieve a strong commitment in its third budget either. The increase that has come is thanks to the supporting parties or the industry itself. Why will the government not base its policy on knowledge when it comes to how much fish and what kind of fish are in the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1373	Now, if we add up the increased investment in marine research, I think we're about to round 400 million. kr. I think the Labour Party has taken a little too long when you look at what's in the budget for next year. What is produced as a cut is technical adjustments due to phase shifts and payments for the construction of the new research vessel in Italy. It is not possible to read either this budget or the previous budget in any other way than that there is a solid commitment to marine research. And that's important, because the country needs more legs to stand on. We have a tremendous potential, and it is important that we now focus on research and innovation in the long term to make it possible to take it out in terms of new jobs and activity along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1378	I share that view that we should bet on the seafood industry, and I also noticed that the representative Bakke-Jensen said the same thing as the Minister for Fisheries that the device was different. And yes, it is, because the industry pays a lot more by itself. Could the Minister be a little more concrete and make a concrete reference to each of the budgets as they increase public R & D expenditure in the marine sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1385	As I said in my first reply to the representative Heggø, it is not possible to read this budget in any other way than that there is a solid increase in the investment in marine research. It's programme within the Research Council, it's programme within other research institutes, it's bet on a low shoe. So it's not possible to come to the conclusion that Ingrid Heggø here is making up a spokeswoman.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1391	I have read the budget, be careful, and I cannot find what the Minister here points out when it concerns R & D. But I want to go a little further, because the seafood industry is a global industry, and the Labour Party is concerned about the government’s high level of oil money – and ever-increasing oil money use – and what consequences this can have for the Norwegian economy. Does the Council share our concern about the impact of oil money on maritime nutrition?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1398	We believe that we have put forward a budget that is well adapted to the economic situation and the challenges that Norway is facing when we are going to change, when we are going to make sure that we invest in research and innovation, when we invest in transport, when we invest in other important areas of society, in order to create the future jobs and get more solid legs to stand on. The representative Hegø is now also guilty of saying on the one hand that we are spending too little, and on the other hand is now accusing the government of spending too much money. I think you'll have to decide soon what you actually think about the use of oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1403	Having a well-developed network of reception stations, along with the leadership grant, is important to maintain a differentiated fleet structure that is adapted to our coast and also our sea area. Although the fishing ports are not within the department and budget that we are discussing today, the funds that we have received back to the fishing ports are also important for the Christian People's Party. For the Christian People's Party, these subsidies are linked to our approach to the fisheries policy, which we will discuss later this winter. Then my question to the Council of State is how the Council of State looks at the policy that the majority of Stortinget is now making through the budgetary conciliation, along with the big picture that the Council of State has presented on a competitive maritime food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1408	I very much agree with the representative, Mr Hemdal, that we have to think widely and think about what kind of factors it is that actually affect how we are going to be able to further develop Norwegian fishing industry. Having a reception structure that allows us to have a varied fleet, and that the smallest fleet should not have to go too far, or not have economic disadvantages that it can be far to deliver, is one of the purposes that this leadership grant will contribute to solving. The second, which is about fishing ports and infrastructure, which is also an important factor here, has been discussed by the government and has an assessment of whether it should be transferred to the municipalities. I note that this is still a discussion about, and then we get back to how we will solve it in the future. But that fishing ports are important in order to have a living industry, I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1415	Breeding is an important industry for our country. It is an industry with significant growth potential, but it is also an industry with major challenges that need to be addressed, including: related to salmonnus. My question is: When one knows that the Food Safety Authority has taken a number of decisions on slaughter due to high lice levels — several will come, and some of them generate significant processes and legal steps — is the Council of State certain that the Food Safety Authority has the resources necessary to follow-up the current cases in a way that does not reduce the ability of supervision to carry out and maintain a high level of supervision elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1420	I don't think there's any area that I've been following more closely since I became the Council of State. I have quarterly meetings with the Food Authority and the Marine Research Institute to follow up on the lice situation, because it is so critical to be able to grow. We also invest large amounts of money in research and development of alternative methods for these drug lice, which cause us a very significant problem. Then ask the representative if I think the Food Authority has enough resources. Food surveillance has been allocated resources in previous years, new resources are allocated to next year, and I have the understanding that you have the resources that are now needed to follow the industry closely. But it is also important to ensure that the actors follow the rules of the game that apply. This is about fishing health and fishing welfare, and it is important for the reputation of the industry that we have control over this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1427	I assume that the Council of State is pleased that the Left, in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has contributed more money to marine research, both stock research and research on salmon. The Council of State was so little involved in its introduction. This is particularly important for the environment, and it is particularly important for operators in both aquaculture and wild fish. My question to the Council of State is then: How will the Council of State contribute to the use of this extra money to increase the value creation based on sustainability, both in the wildfish and in the aquaculture sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1434	The Council of State has read the configuration of the Committee very carefully. I think we very much agree on the challenges we have in this area. Both nature and climate challenges cause us to have fish spreading across larger seas, and we have a larger open sea area as a result of the ice retreating. We're aware of the challenges we're facing, and so it's good that we got a budgetary settlement that added new money to the pot for marine research. But I also want to say that the 100 million. In fact, the package of measures aimed at upgrading marine research vessels is also an important prerequisite for us to have up-to-date and good tools to do the stock research that is important in the future. It is also a major and important investment that is being made when this new ice-going research vessel is being built that will enable us to go to the Arctic areas, and also to Antarctica, and do important marine research.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1444	The industry budget for next year is about what we are going to do to create growth and employment in the coming years. This is particularly important in an age of increasing unemployment. For the Workers' Party, soil and forest have a natural place in the discussion of what we're going to do more in the future. Increased production and value creation based on the value chains in agriculture and forestry are not only important for value creation and employment, but will also be an important part of the solution to climate challenges. The Labour Party is clear that food production needs to be increased and that we will continue to have agriculture throughout the country in the future. That is why we are giving priority to instruments to contribute to this precisely. On the government side, unfortunately, there is little to suggest the same thing. The government's draft budget included: proposed to wind the three-based innovation programme in Innovation Norway. The Energy Tile programme has already been phased out. In addition, a cut is proposed for the Food Authority, which concerns us. Good plant and animal health is a competitive advantage we must build on, and then the Food Safety Authority must be strengthened, not weakened. The government also proposed to introduce 25 pst. taxes on the sale of farm use within the family, which would have affected the very bearer of Norwegian agriculture, family farming, and would have made generational shifts far more expensive than today. When the supplementary proposal came, there were even more cuts in agriculture, research and development. Fortunately, the budget agreement in Stortinget with the Left and Christian People's Party has corrected some of this, but we are many who ask us, where does the bioeconomy be? In the Labour Party, we have given priority to this because it is important for Norway, and not least because it gives domestic growth opportunities. We're proposing 125 million. SEK for a dedicated bioeconomy initiative, including: by granting 40 million. kr for a separate investment in Innovation Norway. We are also following up the report to the government-appointed Inland Committee, which came in November. They proposed to establish a bioeconomy centre in Hamar, and believe that it could be a driving force for developing green raw material production for food, feed, energy and industrial use, and exporting products, technology and services to a global market. We're supporting this, and we've added 10 million. to this in the budget. I notice that the Right and Advance Party write in the setting that there is no need to give money for this. They believe that the companies in this cluster are doing their own thing. I have also noted the commitment of the Right Economic Policy Spokesman to the matter when he has defended himself here today that the government has sent some State Secretaries. The working party has much greater expectations for the government to follow up the Inland Committee than to send a couple of State Secretaries. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned with volunteering – not only in the celebrations, but also when it comes to the framework conditions. In agriculture, many and important organisations are receiving support from the Ministry of Agriculture budget because they play an important role in the development of Norwegian agriculture and food production. We believe it is important to support these, and we think there is too little support from the government. We have therefore proposed to strengthen this post by 6 million. kr next year. Last year, we proposed that the Ministry continue the three-year cooperation agreements introduced by the Stoltenberg Government to provide a more stable framework for volunteers. In the last year's budget debate, Stortinget decided that the agreements should be reintroduced, but the government has interpreted this as a one-year agreement. That's not predictable. We hope for support from the other parties, so that we can ensure voluntary organisations in agriculture more predictability even in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1459	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1463	Unemployment in Hedmark and Uppland has remained stable for the last few months at around 2 p.m. It's very good at a time when the highest national unemployment rate is 20 years. In particular, the fall in the interest rate and the low interest rate have had a positive effect on the situation in parts of the economy of the two counties. But if that's the situation now, it's absolutely necessary that the Inland get more drag help. It is also very profitable for the country. Therefore, attention to the Inland needs to be strengthened, not weakened, the current issue of unemployment is far worse elsewhere — especially in the West. The country has lived in the oil shadow for a long time, but this part of Norway has many advantages and a number of leading trade unions and companies with great opportunities. In several areas, the Inland region is strong nationally and internationally. In terms of area, the Inland is as large as Denmark. Large distances and wide variations in the nutrient base require different instruments in the different regions to achieve increased value creation, the development of a diverse business and attractive jobs. With a short distance from the capital and Norway’s main aerodrome, the Inland have good conditions for growth. And the two inland states can not least be involved in relieving the population pressure in the capital area. There were good reasons why the Workers' Party took the initiative for an inland offensive, which was presented in 2013 with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg present. It was also followed up by the then Minister of Economic Affairs Trond Giske setting up the Inland Committee. The current government made some changes to the mandate and composition of the sample, and in November this year the final report of the sample was presented to the Minister of Industry. In this report, bioeconomy, industry, travel, information security, games and entertainment and public sector innovation have been highlighted as examples of areas of activity. Now we're excited about how the government will follow up. Will the Minister of Industry be a driver in this way? What can we expect of her? The work of the Inland Committee must be followed up. It is very important for the Inland and smart for Norway. I also have a very specific matter I ask the Council of State to clarify. The industrial community at Raufoss is a flagship and an engine for inland growth and development and also robs nationally. The Norwegian Center of Expertise at Raufoss has worked to gain status as the Global Center of Expertise. Now the focus is on a new exciting opportunity, that NCE Raufoss, together with NCE Systems Engineering at Kongsberg, is one of two pilot projects in the “Clusters as a Change Engine” programme. On 10 September the Minister of Industry took part in the launch of the pilots. There are funds set aside for the current year, but what about 2016? The promises were great. Is the funds secured and, if so, in what way? In the state budget, we are unable to find answers to that, but I hope the Minister of Industry can give us positive feedback here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1484	The 2016 budget is a budget for work, activity and migration. The policy shall aim at developing the ability to convert and strengthening Norwegian competitiveness. Large parts of Norwegian business are doing very well, and export companies benefit from the low crown price. But in the South and West there are many who are struggling because of the fall in the oil price. The supplier industry in our area is hard hit. Many people have lost their job, and it is uncertain how much of this might take place again, and when. This creates challenges and requires instruments that can help create the new jobs that we will live on in the future. Now it is essential to focus on research, innovation and entrepreneurial activities. In the 2016 budget area of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, it is proposed to use 450 million. kr on a dedicated package of measures to ensure employment, research and innovation and help to companies at an early stage. For the South, we are also very happy to have a seed fund with State capital of 150 million located. NOK 20 million was put in place. kr to the test laboratory Mechatronics Innovation Lab through the comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Workers' Party is attacking us for a business-neutral policy – a concept that Jens Stoltenberg, who launched back in 2001, at the same time, writes in their remarks that ‘it is essential to have businesses and a business that is profitable throughout the country’. This is entirely in agreement with the Right. It is regrettable that the Workers' Party has left Stoltenberg's line and is promoting proposals for industry-specific initiatives. It can't be up to us politicians to find out which business can run profitable. And it doesn't make sense to use government money to keep living in companies that don't have the right to live, and that are in direct competition with private companies that can manage without state support. A very unfortunate example of the faulty industry-specific industrial policy of the Workers Party is State aid of 79 million. kr to door factory Dooria in Årdal in 2006. The State contributed here to the creation of a competitor in the door industry in Norway, in a market that already had overcapacity — in direct competition with Nordic in Lwagal and Bindalsbruk in Bindal. In the summer of 2011, Dooria Årdal was bankrupt. Approximately 100 trucks with machinery and equipment from the bankruptcy dwelling were sold to Eastern European operators in the door industry. Dooria's financial statements show that the company has lost more than 250 million in total. kr. In the same period, the local owners of Nordic in Lwigal have had tough times and injected 45 million private dollars to keep the company with 115 employees going. Bindal's use in Bindal with 40 employees went bankrupt, which had major consequences in a building with 1,500 inhabitants. The loss of the enterprise is still noticeable, and the population of the municipality is declining. These examples clearly show the Workers' Party's misguided industrial policy. The Labour Party boasts that they're spending more money than the government in different areas, but they're making up a budget of 5 billion. kr in expected non-current income, according to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1510	Unemployment has affected Western and South-West countries, and everything indicates that it will be long-term. There is a need for both migration and the skills acquired, not least young people. It is now announced that apprentices will be quit, but there are also young people who do not enter the labour market. This happens at the same time as we have refugees, and then it's incredibly important that we take the good steps to avoid conflict between different groups, and tripartite cooperation is absolutely crucial. When it comes to transition, it's very good that research is being invested, but why are so few of the new places that have been set up, given to the West right now, during a transition period? And why does the West get such a small share of the scholarship holders and recruitment positions that the government has prioritised increasing? This is about using the space of opportunity, and I'm a little surprised at the Council of State when it comes to ferries, because at least the previous government made a real change in pace when it comes to investing in green technology, by putting in place the development project Lavik-Oppedal. Technology is in place, but the challenge for county municipalities is to be able to take such a long-term boost over a long period of time that they are able to use that technology also in ferry transport. There we have an opportunity room, as we have today. We also have challenges related to a new industry, the health industry. The working party has also taken a real leap in the field of welfare technology. There's the solution in place, but it needs to be rolled out. We've set ourselves the goal that all the municipalities should be clear within a relatively few years, so we also need more capital to roll it out. The ideas are there, and the technology is there, but it has to be used. The last thing I want to record on these three minutes is design. In Bergen we have established something called Design Region Bergen. They're getting huge new projects. The government has set up something called DOGA, the Norwegian design and architecture centre, with 60 employees centrally, but there is so little flexibility that even though one of the largest national projects related to e-health is now ready, it is not possible to obtain resources from these 60, so that they can roll it out in Bergen. So it has to be moved to Oslo. This doesn't last. Flexibility should be in place, for changes in unemployment and not least changes in new industries take place so quickly that the government has to be in place here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1523	Under the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens, 255,000 new jobs were created, of which we would bet where we had the greatest advantages. Norway had the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. It is on this government's guard that it has gone wrong. I travel very much around the country, and broadband is being developed as the most important single measure for many businesses, especially for the tourism industry in the district. The second most important is the means of marketing travel, and all produce good and sustainable framework conditions. Therefore, I would like to use a few words on the commitment that the government is making to the tourism industry and their framework conditions in this draft budget. To change the rates of VAT on overnight stays and ski facilities, as seen overnight both hotels and ski facilities in a very difficult situation, many of whom have already signed contracts for upcoming seasons. It is not possible to recover all these fees by moving them over to the customers. And for the third year in a row, the government reduces the marketing resources, and for the third year in a row, the government increases the use of oil money. Yes, it's in and out of control, but it's the wrong policy, it's the wrong medicine – and this is for an industry that runs quite marginally today. The change in the take-off fee at aerodromes and the flight seat fee is also a travel and district enemy game. A low price has of course been good for travel life this season and compensated for the lack of means of marketing, but the government's use of oil gives cause for concern for the future. It would also have meant Right if it had not been for the entered into marriage with the Progress Party. Norway has a strong environment of expertise and industry that is at the forefront when it comes to making use of bio-based resources. A growing bioeconomy will help reduce global greenhouse gas emissions and provide new opportunities for value creation and value chains in the marine, agricultural and forestry sectors. Total biomass production in the marine sector is high, also in an international context, and one has come a long way in important areas. But knowledge of resources is crucial to increase the contribution. Seaweeds, algae and the use of whole fish – cod liver enzymes are worth more than gold! By increasing research in the marine sector, the Labour Party will lay the foundation for new value chains and products based on the sea, but then one must put away the excessive threat of nutrition neutrality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1540	I asked for the floor because I think it is really rather disappointing that the Minister of Agriculture, in his speech to the Stortinget, did not mention forestry in one word. In a situation where we are talking about climate challenges, the need for new jobs and new industries in Norway and seeing the possibility of relationships between the bioeconomy and the forestry we have is disappointing. Forestry is a value chain that has some very special possibilities. It is also special because it takes a very long time from an investor to one can harvest the yield – 60–70 years from a plant to a plant in the ground, until one can chop down and take out the value creation. This is precisely why this is part of the policy that needs very special instruments. It does not match the same tax system as when a short-term driver. One needs some special arrangements. The whole value chain is, has been and should become important for Norway in the future. Therefore, the Minister of Economic Affairs should focus on his part of the value chain for which forestry is possible. Of course, it is disappointing when the government proposes to reduce the value creation programme, which has been entirely since 1998 – I know this because it was basically I who wrote it in 1997, but it was Kåre Gjønnes who presented it as Minister of Agriculture. I'm very pleased with what he put forward to focus on and use this amazing resource better and more efficiently. Then we have to bet on value creation. Then we have to bet on forest roads, all the practical things that we propose in the budget, and that will actually be crucial to this value chain. Here I believe that we have a lot to learn from the marine sector, the farming sector. Basically, the success of the farming sector is a story that we have taken from the knowledge that fishermen along the coast have about fish, about the market and about operating in this sector. Then we have put on innovation, research on mercenaries and research on feed, among other things. at Ås, and got a world-leading industry in an area where we have natural resources, but where we also have a long tradition and competence. Renewing within the renewable resources I believe will be crucial for the future of Norway. Forestry is another example of how we can use this thinking, build on competence and find new products and research. State councils would like to read the Woods of Norway, which is a good recipe to think of the overall value chain for increased value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1551	I was born and raised in a fisherman in a fisherman's family on the outside of Senja, so I want to talk about fisheries. The fishing and seafood resources off our coast are unique. This country is built on this wealth. Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood in the world. Norwegian seafood is our third largest export item for petroleum and the supplier industry and can quickly be the largest if we get the resources right. Then we have to facilitate value creation, employment and settlement across the coast, across the country. Most of the reports and strategies submitted indicate that the marine industries have an industrial growth potential that we, as a coastal nation, must exploit. The Working Party has established some important principles for fisheries and maritime food policy. Firstly, the resources in the sea belong to the community, and the administration must be sustainable. The resources belong to the community and shall be managed for the community. We therefore reject eternal quota rights and will maintain the participant law and the Fish Sale Act as important pillars of Norwegian fisheries policy. Then we have to facilitate profitability throughout the value chain in the marine food industry. A diverse, profitable fleet and solid processing enterprises shall contribute to employment and growth along the coast. The level of processing in the industry needs to be increased, and we need to facilitate industry that can provide profitable and full-time jobs. We must have research and innovation at all stages of the value chain, where quality must be a key element, including in market work. I am afraid that the government's lack of commitment to this budget, including, in the marine sector, does not support such objectives. Then I want to talk about Arctic agriculture. There can be no doubt that the government’s policy for large and merged uses is not sustainable policies for Arctic agriculture, as it is. is in the part of the country in which I live, where it is all about exploiting the resources available on the ground. Another threat to this agriculture and to healthy farming in the north has been the government's lack of commitment to maintaining the Department of the Veterinary Institute in the north of the green sector, a department that has been under great pressure. Luckily, a few days ago when the matter was up here in the house, a total pile went against the government's advice. Both this case and a fisheries policy that shifts the management of resources from the community to private hands received a clear response from the north in the autumn elections. It's just to hope that the government listens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1568	It is great to hear that the Workers' Party is so busy with the forest industry after sitting and running it for eight years, where it happened very little except that one went from being a net importer to becoming a net exporter. So at least when I travel around now and meet the forest industry, the feedback is that they're happy to finally have a council that's occupied with the forest industry, and that's been betting on it. This government has thus greatly strengthened the infrastructure of forestry, and we have also made some changes that have improved the competitiveness of the industry, for example. to allow major combinations of vehicles. Then I would like to comment on it with the Food Authority. The working party says that they will provide more supervision by granting 20 million. Extra kroner. At the same time, the Workers' Party has a note that they want to change the Food and Veterinary Authority. Let me just say right away that I think that's essentially a good idea, that's just that this idea costs 20 million. kr to be completed. Then I think that the money should have been spent on supervision, and that is why I do not want to change my name, because it costs 20 million. kr. As a result, there will be no more supervision of the Workers' Party. There are several people who have been involved in research. That's 440 million. kr, almost available for agricultural research. I want to say that there's quite so much money. In addition, it is very gratifying to see that the food and agricultural industry is one of the industries that has had the greatest increase in applying for the TaxFUNN scheme, which this government has strengthened. There's been an increase of over 50 pst. in one year. So finally, in the case of chicken, it's kind of wanted to say that the concession limits and the increase in them are due to the fact that Nortura now has to reduce the number of chicken beans. So far there are three to four pieces in Rogaland to build at the concession limit. The fact is, Nortura has lost the agreement with ICA, which makes them have a smaller part of the market. The fact is, there has been a big drop in the market because of the discussion about antibiotic resistance, which has been demanding for everyone. What's good about it all is that Nortura now wants to add up to a conversion process, where we're going to get some of these to maybe go over to producing cattle -- amazing, we need more beef, bring down imports, up production -- and there's also room for some to go over to pig production. So this seems to be finding its solution, and a very good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1579	Agricultural policy now sees a very high rate of closure of use. It hasn't been higher since 2007. So I think the government parties should be a little careful to draw big conclusions from developments over a short period of time, because the agricultural industry is a long-term industry, where the policy is a time-consuming one. So it's interesting that we have a discussion where a package of measures is highlighted that is so important. It was clear in the submitted state budget, which was 4 billion. kr. So now we're discussing a package of measures that the government parties don't know how big it is. I find that problematic, and I think that the government should clarify it. So Gunnar Gundersen's representative was earlier in the debate that this is something other than the financial crisis. Yes, the reason is different, but what we are asking for is the determination and the power of action that was in 2009. I don't think the opposition at that time would have accepted it if we said that here's the package of measures, we don't know how big it is. Furthermore, news has come today that is quite dramatic for business in large parts of the country. Due to the fact that the government and the majority of the parties have introduced an airline seat charge, because they have increased VAT, because they have introduced an increase in the employer's fee and because they have introduced increased Avinor charges, Remøe reduces its production on a number of routes that are important to business. So you're doing it at a time when you have a falling market. Then come these fees that hit Onyøe hard, on top. It's bad for Norwegian business. Finally, I want to clarify a little bit about Statkraft. It is true that the Senterpartiet informed earlier that, unless Statekraft implemented what was in the investment plan, we believed that the assumptions for it had changed, and that one had to look at the capital injection. There's something quite different than what the majority parties are doing now. Now they're pulling back 5 billion. kr before a knowledge of Statkraft implements the underlying investment plan. Had it been so that one could wait until January and see that here there was a negative investment decision on the Fosen and wind power there, and then because of it, the capital withdrawal was because the assumptions for the capital injection had changed, yes then the cente had agreed. But what you're doing now is pretending that Statkraft has concluded that the Fozen isn't going to be expanded, and then takes a 5 billion. kr a late night hour to get the budgets in the next few years to jump. It's poor ownership. I expect the representatives of the government parties to be a little less high and dark when we discuss ownership principles in the days and years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1592	At a time when we need to change, it is important that we make sure that county councils are able to be the important regional development operator that they are meant to be. Therefore, it seems strange that the government now for the third year on a row of cutters in the regional development funds. This year the government has also raised an amount of 20 million. kr for a so-called south-west operation, to be taken to the county municipalities along the coast from Møre and Romsdal to East-Agder, administered by Hordaland. I'm asking the question, what kind of significance will these 20 million? kr ha in this context, when they simultaneously in the year's budget cut 7,8 million. kr in the regional development funds only in Agder? One could at least say that there's no bet. That is why the Labour Party proposes in its alternative budget that we increase regional development funds by 200 million. kr. At the same time, the government also proposes to lay down the regional governments of Innovation Norway, which is an important element in the interaction with the county councils, as the regional development actor they intend to be. The Labour Party has noted during the LO consultation that there is a need for a State loan guarantee scheme for the mainland industry to improve access to capital and strengthen competitiveness. That is why, together with the Senterpartiet, we propose that the government investigate the possibility of a State loan guarantee on behalf of GIEK. In our alternative budget, we also want the basic fund of the GIEC's rural system to increase by 150 million. kr, giving an increased guarantee capacity of 1,05 billion. kr. Furthermore, the Workers' Party welcomes the support of an overall committee to ask the government to develop a broadly anchored national space industry strategy. The same applies to another industry, the finished product industry, where a requested government is looking at how it is possible to set up the tool so that the finished product industry can be strengthened. Mechatronics Innovation Lab became a priority action of the so-called Southern Committee, which was set up by the government of Stoltenberg. After the submission of the sample, the working party has prioritised funds for that lab. The downturn was all the more pronounced throughout the South when the government did not follow up with funds in the year’s draft budget. Fortunately, 20 million were put in place. kr in the budget agreement. I would like to stress today that, in order to complete the project, it is important for further appropriations to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1607	This debate has been about what is well the big challenge for many of us, no matter what kind of party we come from. So we're getting a situation in Norway where a very large number of people don't have a job to do. I feel that the big questions, which are important for future recruitment, have been answered very little by the government parties during this debate. This applies first of all to the question of how much money we are going to spend, and in particular how much oil money we are going to spend. It is difficult after this debate to conclude that there is really some concern in the government parties about the ever-increasing use of oil money and increasing oil dependence, as a sea in opposition to the Council of Ministers very strongly. The second is the question of how we finance all good actions. The Labour Party was accused instead of spending too much money, but it is, after all, such that the alternative budgets have pointed to good containment. I am a little surprised that the government parties do not take a note of how little growth you get out of the tax relief you so eagerly fight for, and that you do not actually notice that it is very clear from very highly competent professional teams that there is little growth to get in driving that kind of reduction in, among other things. The taxes on wealth, which we've seen the government do. To the question of being business neutral or not: it is not primarily about seeing one enterprise in one place in the country and going in there. The number of parties called for in this debate is greater involvement within a sector and, in particular — pointed out by many — related to the bioeconomy. With regard to the development of wood processing in Norway, it is necessary to cover something more than budget lines that are largely owned by the Ministry of Transport, but which relate to both the length of cars and the construction of roads. That is important enough, but there are many other measures we need to take in order to lift a renewable industry. Three-based innovation is mentioned, research, under the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, which we do not see so much, etc. I would also like to end by mentioning the line change we had, where the question of state management of ownership related to Telenor was raised. I don't think we got any clarification on the question that was asked in the line change. I might have expected the Council of State to use the occasion here in Stortingen more to clarify what has been said, and what has been informed about at the given time, so that an unnecessary debate was stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1622	In the past week, the media have been concerned with a very important issue, namely the very uneven gender balance at the top of Norwegian business. It requires action. But instead of doing what helps, namely bringing more women into the second highest level of business, demanding and ensuring that companies have systematic recruitment and career plans for women, ensuring equality in general, which allows women to take on such prominent tasks, the Minister of Industry concentrates on one concrete employment in one specific company. Quote: ‘It is serious if it appears that no women were in the final round [[...]] Then it turns out that the State Council of Malta has been fully informed since May 4. For six months, she's probably got exactly what's going on. She knew that women had been interviewed, she knew that three men had been appointed to the board, and she knew that the advisory board and board recommended the way they did. She chose ‘to play surprised’, writes the weekly management today. With her opinions, she led representatives of big business to express themselves on a false basis. She seduced journalists and commentators. What does the Council of State really think that Telenor should have done differently? Would they employ someone other than what they did, even though selections, advisory companies and board unanimously meant this? The Council of States must be able to answer that question in this Chamber. VG can now reveal that Malta asked for a very specific candidate. Should the company follow the recommendation of Malta, even across its own conclusions? What should you say to the 46 pst. the other owners of the company, had they done so? VG can also reveal that Malta sits in its office and compares CVs. It was in the paper this day. Is that how ownership management is carried out? You have to rub your eyes. Is that how you build trust and trust between company and owner — a confidential dialogue? No, it's not. But this confidentiality is already broken. Last week, the Council of State sent 1,500 pages of documentation on the dialogue between owner and company to Stortinget. I remember having a similar issue in my time. Then I received a strong advice – a professional, ownership management council – from the government that these papers should not be sent out by the ministry. My question to the Council of State is, Did she get the same advice, administratively? Then why did she choose to break it, and send 1,500 graduated pages out of the department? This is poor ownership management. Breaking this confidentiality and providing false media information about different processes damages state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1644	I think it is very alarming that the leader of the Business Committee goes up to several times to the Chair and asks for a speech in the budget. This may indicate that he does not intend to read the budget and perhaps does not understand what is written in the budget and read the budget in a good way. It is that of the original package of measures, there are 450 million. kr in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, and they are still there. Not a single penny of 450 million. kr within the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries's package in this budget has been moved by the Stortinget. They are ready for use from January 2016, and that is very happy. In addition, the negotiations in Stortinget also meant that the total budgets we are discussing in the Industry Committee were actually strengthened. So the budgets we deal with in the nutrition committee have come very, very well out of the round that has been here on the Storting, and the work that the government has done with the budget. Then most people have come to realize that the package of measures was 4 billion. kr, which is still well over 3 billion. kr, has given very good effects where these money has been spent. We have, of course, applied something, especially to the required refugee and immigration crisis, but it is quite clear that the feedback shows that much of the work being done is also creating jobs. We have received feedback that up to 4000 new jobs have been created due to this crisis. For us, it is very important that good and competent people work there, and these are good and dear jobs for those who get these jobs. I would also like to comment: Odd Omland, the representative of the Workers' Party, criticises the government for their lack of priority. In the same vein, the representative Ingrid Heggø jumps up and criticises the government for the very opposite, that they actually have the right to prioritize. So frustration from my side seems to be complete in the Labour Party. It also turns out that Ingrid Heggø goes up to the pulpit and talks down the great, good travel industry that we have here in Norway. In fact, the budget for Innovation Norway in this area is strengthened by 6.5 million. kr in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1655	I would like to comment on it with the number of uses, on which the representative Pollestad was involved. In fact, the number of use dropped from year to year will vary. But the status so far, with this government, is that the number of uses in operation is reduced by 2 pst. Now the last numbers we have are preliminary numbers, but that's the best we have so far. We see the red-green period as a whole, the number of uses in operation that were shut down, on average 2.4 pst. In other words, we are very good at whose goal is to cut down on the lowest possible use. One of the reasons why the number of production requests has increased some this year is that we have made some changes to the production grant regulation. Among other things, we have looked at the operating community and given it increased attention. That means that someone's small on paper, while they're really big. What we've shown is that there's been something wrong with this, either consciously or unconsciously, because there's been a code that could have led to misunderstandings. That was why this year the Ministry of Agriculture gave amnesty to those who wanted to clean this up themselves. It is very good that many people signed up, and it is positive that we have cleaned it up. But that is one of the reasons why there has been a rather large reduction in production grant applications from last year to this year. Then I just want to comment on short bioeconomy. Now it is that this government has announced that we will come to Stortinget with a bioeconomy strategy – we have announced that we are delayed, so it will come over New Year – that is because it is so much interest in this bioeconomy strategy, and more and more people want to contribute because it is seen to be important for the future. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is quite strange that the representative Storberget says that almost nothing is seen for agricultural research in next year's budget. That's almost 440 million. kr. If that's the definition of almost nothing, I think he has a very special way of dealing with the people's money. 440 million. kr is at least a lot in my world, and we're going to use it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1666	About a week and a half ago, we were able to hear the representative Jonas Gahr Larger call for new ideas and better solutions from the Prime Minister when it came to measures against unemployment. The interesting thing is that he offers his own thoughts about what could have been new ideas and new solutions, namely permitations. This is something I have heard since I came into Stortinget. For almost two years we have heard one thing from the Workers' Party and the trade union movement: the reversal of the changes that the government has made, and now also the desire for increased length of leave. If we had done as the Workers' Party proposed two years ago, some of the 1000 people who have been given new jobs today would have been allowed longer and lived by daily allowances longer before they had been fired. It's dramatic for them to lose their jobs, but it's less dramatic than going up to one year on a day's money in an unsolved situation – the day's money that for most people would be half the income, at the same time as the expenditure. We have to be honest that the 30,000 people who have lost their jobs in oil-related industries are not going back to the industry. If we don't get to either conversion or green shift. However, the industry will continue to be important for Norway in the future and will be one of several legs to stand on. This government is just making it easier for more legs to stand on as opposed to the previous one. In 2012, it was invested at 200 billion. kr in oil-related industry against 20 billion. kr on the mainland. It says a little bit about the division of the economy that has been. I hear more criticise business-neutral politics because they want to bet in some areas. Yes, bioeconomy is most likely to be important for Norway in the future. But to believe for a moment that this hall is competent enough and able to predict the future's growth industries is relatively naive. When the Internet and the term ‘Internet’ were invented in 1991, I do not remember one budget line in the next nine years that invested in ICT industries in Norway. Today these represent 250000 jobs. There are people in the business community in Stavanger by day, and the job of the future is probably already being created, but it won't be within one industry, it won't be one enterprise. Facebook, which many people use today and ask the question if we could get a Facebook in Norway, employs 12,000 people worldwide. This means that the jobs of the future will hardly have what the industrial sites had, that is, many thousands of employees located in one place. We need to facilitate the simultaneous growth of many industries and the diversity of jobs created. This government has committed itself to work, activity and conversion, and I want to hold on to the fact that this budget has taken account of it, on the basis of what we had to assume, and that we are actually going to face a new period of work, growth and conversion in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1683	To the representative of Odd Omland, who is calling for regional development funds for Agder, I can report back from Agder's business life that they are very pleased with the direction of today's industrial policy. They get relief from taxation, and not least they get a historic investment in road construction in our county. To the representative Knut Storberget: If the goal of industrial policy is to maximise value creation, which I believe is also for the Workers' Party, it is about getting the best products. The best projects must then be brought to the fore in competition. Then it's not the solution that we who are sitting here on the Stortinget are going to pick up the businesses of the times that are going to create the new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1690	One thing is certain: the jobs of the future must be climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. Today, Norway relies a lot of its business on non-renewable oil. It's got to turn around. Many people say that we can't pick industries, but we have to pick the assumptions that will underpin the industries we have, that they have to be climate friendly. The oil industry is based on a raw material that incidentally lay off our coasts. We need to replace that raw material with renewable and climate-friendly raw materials. We're so lucky we have this kind of raw material in Norway. We have such raw materials in many parts of the country, and in that part of the country I come from, we have a lot of it. That's good. But how does the government feel about this? Well, by investing massively in oil research – oil research, as the representative Nordby Lunde was up here and said – oil, which we have to phase out, and not into, where the government dumps a lot of money, where there are economic regimes that make the oil companies refund their expenses for exploration. There are huge efforts from the government in a specific industry, a specific industry that needs to be phased out. What do we see in the industry that could replace any of this, the green bioeconomy? Well, there the government has been systematically picking away the little tools that were there. The first year it was cut on the industrial use of tiles. There were many jobs lost in it. Then there has been three-based innovation – year after year it was cut. We get to say thank you to the Christian People's Party and the Left, who raise some of this by means of grants for the use of wood. It's little tools, but you pick them away. And then you say, well, look, we've given money to forest roads. Yes, money is allocated to roads, so that you can drive the timber out to Sweden and run industrial production in Sweden. That's what's going on right now. That's why SV believes that we have to bet on these industries. Then we can't pick production, but we have to bet on research on this. We need to have instruments that enable us to realise an industrial investment in this renewable raw material that we have and that can replace oil. Everybody's talking about it, but the government just keeps doing what it's done before, that's to bet on oil, which everyone says we have to phase out. I'm not particularly impressed by the green bet of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1705	We need to recruit both for industry in general, for our fisheries sector and for agriculture. As far as agriculture is concerned, it should not only produce food, but we also believe that we need a food security plan in times of crisis. The chief of defence’s professional military advice states that it is no longer realistic to take into account a long warning period for crises in the neighbourhoods. The experiences of close history also tell us the same thing. I think of Russia's annexation of the Crimean Peninsula. It is an example of crises and conflicts that came quickly and that do not follow what we think of as classical warfare. The Group of Experts on Defence in Norway further states that civil protection needs to be strengthened in order to support defence and to respond to the needs of citizens in a crisis situation. That is why it was good for us to have a majority in the Committee, which asks the government to draw up a thorough risk and vulnerability analysis where food production, food supply and preparedness are part of the social security perspective. I am also pleased with the clarification that the Council of State, Mr Listhaug, had in the change of line with the representative, Mr Storberget – that the government should, of course, follow this up, but also that one will look at this together with the Minister of Industry, who is also responsible here. For the undersigned, who has been driving behind these remarks, this is not primarily about cereal stocks, we have seen that and got a lot on it, but this is a broader perspective. The whole country is now experiencing the ringing effects of low oil prices. We've discussed that and been in it many times, but for the Christian People's Party, it's important to focus on regional development and innovation in the districts just in the time we're in now. That is why it was important for us to get back some of the regional development funds that the government had proposed to cut in the draft budget. 125 million. We have placed kr in the budget union with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. Bioeconomic strategy is working on, says State Councillor Listhaug. That's good. It is also good that it is of great interest. That it's a little delayed, we're going to be able to live with it, because the bioeconomy has a great potential in itself. I am pleased to hear that the government says that there is a great deal of interest in this, and also expects that there will be consequences for the policy to be pursued, because we in this House are concerned with bioeconomy. We showed that in our last year's attitude. Now the government follows up our majority remarks, and to next year we should be on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1718	This debate seems to me to have illustrated that it is passivity that governs the industrial policy of Norway for the time being. On various questions in the exchange of lines, etc. What's going on, we actually got pretty straightforward answers to that. In a meeting with the unemployed, when it really exploded, a bunch of organizations – Norwegian Industry, Norwegian Oil and Gas, Tekna, Abelia – came with a package they were immersing "Transfer", which was built on the Research Council in England their very good experience of transferring competence from one area to another. It's highly topical in Norway, where we really need to put into practice the skills that are in the high-tech oil industry, and move it into other types of industries. Nothing happened in the revised budget. And then there's a little puppy in the form of an Idea lab, and that's the only thing I've been able to find in this budget, about 10 million. kr. This was a project that was initially much more extensive and would have much greater significance. It's almost incomprehensible to see that a lot of people now lose their jobs, a lot of people disappear out of the country. This is a loss for Norway in a lack of sense. So you just can't stick your legs so that one gets to programs that can lift this competence in areas where we really need it. Here's a bio-economy report. This is old reversion, this is reversion from the early 2000s, things we should have started with a long time ago. Here we're soon in the second half of the government's period, and then we start with a bio-economy message that's coming over the new year. Industry 4.0 – it's an initiative that came in Germany several years ago, this is a development where we're really behind, and where it's life-threatening, industrial, to be behind. Only now will this kind of initiative, supposing, but it sounds more like an analysis. I had really believed that when you got a bunch like that in government, a lot would happen in the ICT field. But what happens? There's almost nothing happening. There's almost nothing happening in the field of education, and there's going extremely slowly in the field of health. It's just so slow that we're starting to wonder if it's really possible to do this over the course of the four years of our government. So talk about nutritive neutrality. What in all the world is it for some kind of neutrality? One talks about it within the field of nutrition, but within research, one is then able to pick out the project a mine should be future. There's already a through the long-term plan for research picking out six areas a mine should be future. There's a really competent one, but in the field of nutrition, there's one not, except for oil. A bet is to bet separately, but for all of these other industries, a no is to bet, where we are to be as neutral as possible, they have to be able to search for generic pots. Elles is the government's policy of a strong loan against the privatisation of natural resources. It almost seems like you're more busy selling out what's future to Norway than really putting it into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1733	The next speaker is Dag Terje Andersen. – Sorry, Dag Terje Andersen, the next speaker is Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1736	Then we were lucky, because my post is much better than Dag Terje Andersens. [[Laughter]] I will be a little careful to comment on the representative Knag Fylkesnes too much. He was so sad now that we almost had to wrap around him a little. I have rarely heard such a depressing speech from this pulpit. I'll comment on some of the numbers that have come. The representative, Geir Pollestad, is up to the pulpit and blames the government for the route cuts in Ontøe. It'll be a bit of a strange debate. Today, we have discussed to a large extent market failures and food shortages in the West. The shift of this market failure to Unheed must be crystal clear for all those interested in industrial policy. Unheavy cutters his routes primarily from Stavanger. It's because it's less activity. Fewer people travel by plane down there. We can do a little bit of that up here. I see Returnøe justifying this with an increased employer's fee. That's absolutely right. That's what they got. This was achieved after the EU amended its regional aid legislation and took transport out of it. This has led to an increase in the employer’s fee for Onkøe. Let me remind you that former leader of the Center Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, in this room has said that yes, we heard about it and we traveled down, but we saw no reason to engage in that particular matter. So the responsibility is placed where the responsibility is to be placed. Then I register to my amazement that Helge Mögster is safe inside the warmest of the Workers' Party. I have to remind you that Helge Mögster is one of the leading industrial builders you've had in the West. When he had his tirated at a meeting with the finance minister in the West, it was primarily the property tax that bothered him. Helge Mögster has now had worse times. The wealth tax bothered him, because it is distorted when the values of the groups fall. I see no call from the Workers' Party and no sign in their budget that they will take away the property tax. I think we have to be so honest that we treat Helge Mögster as he is – a socialist and an industrialist, who would not be charged with an unfair tax, at least not now when it tightens up a little bit. Finally, I must say to the representative Trond Giske, who said that the Minister of Industry had led journalists and big business representatives: in one way I can agree with him. At least he has managed to lead the head of the nutrition committee, Geir Pollestad, to believe that it is the state council that appoints the director of Telenor. It's very easy to find out here that it's an election committee and a business meeting that does. The representative Pollestad's call in the media that the Minister of Industry must now bring in a new director as soon as possible is called out into the void. So it's going to happen in order. I think it's important that we are clear when we talk about such an important matter and a company as Telenor is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1751	The next speaker is Dag Terje Andersen. Now, the meeting has to assess the quality of the posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1755	I'm not going to think about that, but it was really good that I came after the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen, because I've read that interview with Helge Mögster. It was not just the property tax he mentioned. He also mentioned the ability to deal with crises affecting the country. It was really the main message, at least in what was reproduced in the media. I think he had a good point: when there are challenging situations, it doesn't keep saying that this is difficult, and it's not our fault. In fact, action is needed to meet the challenges. There is an industrial policy that is the most important labour market measure, i.e. — creating activity. In this context, the legislation on permitting also belongs. It was taken up by a speaker earlier, with a significant misunderstanding, for the representative Nordby Lunde thought it was 30,000 in the oil industry that was going to lose the job and that is not going back to the industry. That number is definitely not going to be good for me, but the permitting code is not such that you get a permit if the job goes away. The Permitting Code is an opportunity when you see that you are in a temporary recession and that the jobs will come back. A very good example of how we can use it as an active conversion tool is Aker Verdal, where the law of permacy has been used for the construction of skills in periods of low economic activity, and they have come back and built on the skills they have and developed further. It is true, as the Minister for Industry said in his speech – and I thought that was well said – that we actually have a very adaptable business in Norway. I'm a little sorry that in the political debate it sounds like we don't have a resilient business, and that we're now going to be a knowledge-based nation. That's actually what we are. That's why we're doing so well. Permitting legislation and other public schemes underpin the good parts of the private sector’s ability to move safely, for this is the way in which many new jobs are and must be created in Norway. However, most of the job innovations in Norway actually take place in existing companies, which develop new products based on their knowledge. We must support them in this and help them to do so. Finally, I just have to say – because my first post, which I thought was going to be my last, was about forestry – that I have heard three times the Minister of Agriculture at the Stockholm Chair, and until now she has not said anything about the Ministry of Agriculture's forestry policy. She has mentioned two instruments, both in the Ministry of Transport, for example: longer cars. All parties agree on this. But we have not heard that the Minister of Agriculture has said anything about the forestry policy instruments available to the Ministry of Agriculture, and that is a clarification in itself, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1764	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1767	A brief explanation of vote on the Framework Area 11, point VII and the Framework Area 9, point XIII, which we are going to vote against. We have expressed our position on this in the ownership message. I hope the State Council of Malta can clarify why she did not make any reservations about economic development in the country when they introduced State Force 10 billion. NOK, when it's been used to explain why you're withdrawing 5 of them. Then I would also like to get an answer as to why the Minister of Industry can be informed about who are candidates for the group manager in Telenor, if you think you have no influence over it. So as far as Frank Bakke-Jensen is concerned, is it so that the Minister of Industry has no influence whatsoever on who will become the new director of Telenor? Otherwise, I notice that in today's business today, the same Frank Bakke-Jensen is out saying that Telenor has to put in place a new director and a new management. Then the ownership principles are out of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1780	We've come to that point in the debate where you could say it's an interesting debate -- I might say that with a little irony. At least I think it was quite strange and especially to hear the exchange of lines between Knut Storberget and Monica Meland. It is not so often in the last few days that Svein Aaser has had such a warm embrace as Knut Storberget actually gave him in that reply. At least that was interesting. A name that has remained in this debate is Helge Mögster, for he has advanced towards the government, and the red-green have used him as a witness of truth. It is interesting, but I must be allowed to read some quotes from the interview where he extended towards the Minister of Finance, to which it is referred: ‘People go to prison because they make mistakes in relation to some legislation. Which countries are we in the process of creating, asked the Most.’ To be honest, I have to say that someone who wanted to relax legislation because it took care of him and his business, I'm not quite sure that you need to support it. I'm concerned that we live in a state of law, we're going to have laws and rules, they're going to apply to everyone, even when there are downtimes in different industries. Furthermore, he says that they are engaged in taxing Norwegian investors, while foreign investors and tax refugees who have escaped the country escape. If there are tax refugees who have escaped the country, that might be a reason. It might be because the tax level is too high. It is, as others have pointed out, the wealth tax that is really the problem. I have not realized that neither the Centre Party, the Workers' Party nor the SV want to reduce that tax in particular. It's kind of interesting to notice the perception you have of the oil industry, that you're worried about the jobs that disappear. I fully agree with that. But remember, the red-green parts have had a slightly different perception of the oil industry in the past. In 2014, Jonas Gahr Støre said that the oil had to be left for the sake of the climate. I won't say he meant it one day, but at least he meant it until he had spoken to LO, then he had changed his mind. Since SV is so busy with job losses, and increased unemployment: I do not know that SV voted for a single petroleum project in this room before they joined the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1798	The representative Trellevik asked in his first speech about our budgeting, and it is a pleasure to be allowed to answer, so that in this debate there are also some answers. We propose that the financial industry should receive VAT. This is what the government is proposing from 2017. We and the Christian People's Party propose it from 1 July 2016. It is a proposal that has been thoroughly investigated and which is fully available. Then we suggest that the interest-rate limit rule should be changed. There we support the government's change, but we also have an addition. There may be some uncertainty about the estimate, but we have used the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Trellevik's Ministry of Finance, when we come up with what we have presented in our budget. But I understand that Trellevik has no confidence in the Treasury calculations. He might remember the bag tax, adopted proceeds 1 billion. NOK, which never went off. I think there is a need to give some answers in this debate about our budgeting, and I hope it also makes the government want to give some answers about just government budgeting. Since the financial debate, we have asked for answers on the size of the package of measures that a candidate presented in the election campaign. In the election campaign, the big thing was that it was going to be 4 billion. kr, there was a detailed list point by point. Now no one in the government can answer us, no one can give us the detailed list – today is no exception. The package of measures proposed by the government was limited to temporary measures that could be quickly reversed, and now it is uncertain what lies there. I have heard representatives from the Right mention that the seed scheme for the South is part of these measures. So it's temporary, that seed scheme? The Minister of Economic Affairs may reply as to whether the cereal regime is part of the temporary measures. I've also heard about the apprentice grant. Is the increase there also temporary? I think it is remarkable that the Minister of Industry is passive and is looking at in this debate. Norway has 127 000 unemployed, and not to be involved in the debate in the Storting on the measures and on how to do so, I find it strange. I would also like to mention the contributions of the representative of Nordby Lunde. It only underscores the ideological line that the right-hand side puts on in this discussion. One is against the law of permacy – most of all from ideology. 90 pst. of those covered by the Permitting Code, come back to work. These are actions that work. One is opposed to business-oriented measures — most of all because it is about ideology. One's own government canceled the ICT bet that our government had posted. Then I understand that it is painful for the representatives from the Right to see that Mögster says that the Right has failed and points to the Labour Party's solutions. I just want to invite the representatives from the Right to just read the Workers' Party's alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1817	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1820	If the representative Bakke-Jensen is so worried about me that he has to keep around me, I can offer a hug in the hiking hall afterwards. But it was a little bit weird. I have also read the interview with Mögster, and it was quite an interesting reading of what Bakke-Jensen had. I think this illustrates a little bit of the problem here, that one is trying to talk away from what's actually the big problem. The government is coming down, walking after a development where you should have a doctor lead. It applies to unemployment, and it applies to new opportunities within technology, and this is the area where one must be at the forefront. If one comes after, it's just too late. There we are. And in such a debate, two of the state councils here are not participating. I think one must stop gaping and come up here and take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1827	It is only to be noted that those who believe that a business-neutral policy should be pursued, it is good to subsidise a mature, polluting industry both with research money and with guarantees of possible oil exploration losses, while developing a renewable industry in a renewable, climate-friendly raw material that Norway has a lot of, and that we need – where developments are now going down in other countries, but too slowly in Norway – the small research funds and the development funds that are there are cut. It is that when Norway has become a large nation of hydropower, there have been political decisions that have been behind it. It has been regulated, and there have been arrangements that have made it clear that one has had a resource and said that we are developing it. That's when the oil and gas industries came too. It recognizes everyone, at least in words, now has to be phased out, but nevertheless that's what you're betting on, while you don't have to bet on what could give us a lot of jobs, where you can replace the raw material that oil is today, with a raw material based on, among other things. Three. It's motivating to see. This is not going to happen in Norway if we don't get real government ambitions, research money, money to develop this, patient capital that can stand for a while to realize this in Norway. Instead, you are very proud to build more forest roads and get the timber on the car and drive it to Sweden. I'm not very impressed about that. We need greater ambitions to develop this in Norway as well, and the forest industry is so fragmented that this will not go without the state being involved and contributing. Then we have presented a number of proposals on the agricultural side. It's about stimulating more to organic farming. It's about having your own animal supervision – not just changing your name, but having your own animal supervision, because it's necessary. This is a stepping-up plan for regional environmental programmes. It is about using investment grants to increase available land and increase self-produced feed. It's about getting arrangements that can ensure soil welfare and good agronomy, preferably from a thousand-year perspective, because these are values that will produce food for all generations to come. And finally, we have many measures to strengthen the situation of women in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1836	I don't think I'm going to comment on the previous speaker more than saying that the problem of all socialists is that you finally run out of other people's money. To the representative Dag Terje Andersen, I almost want to say, everybody agree, Andersen? Governments for eight years were halved in the Norwegian timber processing industry, industry and forestry industries, after the measures taken here, but nothing was done. So it's really quite phenomenal then to stand here and say that we all agree. We perform and the Labour Party talks, I think we should say. I have not received an answer to the main challenge of the Labour Party budget. That's air money, that's one. The second is that you take 10.5 billion. SEK in extra taxes – SEK 3.2 billion. Of these, property taxes – and a little bit of an accelerator program, which is now being neglected in order to achieve this. The working party takes out NOK 10 and may give back NOK 1 to some policy areas that they like to fly around and crawl around. That is the reality of the budget we are discussing today. We have talked about action – yes, we strengthen action. We are talking about permitting rules – yes, we accept that there is a balance there. We've increased the perimeter once, but we might think that we're getting closer to a place where we lock in the workforce. And we've been talking about regional development funds. I never meet a business manager who calls for more regional development funds, calling after the measures that this government has taken. It's transport, it's research and development, it's knowledge, and it's growth-promoting tax relief – mainly to keep more of the equity itself. So at taxes on agriculture: there's almost so I can't take the representative Aasrud seriously. We proposed that it be compensated, it would be equal to taxes on sales within the family and out of the family. It gave a tax reduction to the industry of 55 million. kr. The Workers' Party's alternative budget provides an agricultural wealth tax return of 270 million. kr every year. It's almost impossible to believe that you can stand here and talk about actually creating a level playing field whether you sold inside the family or out of the family. So to Telenor: I think too much has already been said, the company now needs calmness to clean up very serious problems, especially in the corruption case. But when the representative Giske can stand here and raddle – he sat and ran a culture for eight years without doing anything with it, and then he stands here and blames a government council that, like all the other owners, has to go through an election committee, actually has to work through what the ownership message says is the way to run state companies – I think it's pretty incredible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1851	The President will note that he thinks there are expressions that are more parliamentary than ‘air money’ and ‘challenge about’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1854	I am very pleased that in this government we are trying to cooperate a little across departments to get good solutions for business. Among other things, we do. done in respect of the forestry industry. By ensuring that the Minister of Transport can use larger car combinations and larger timber cars on Norwegian roads, the competitiveness of the forest industry is increased. The fact that the highways are upgraded to allow these cars to go there increases the competitiveness of Norwegian forestry. It is true that the forest road transport is in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. This government created a separate line in the budget. In addition to that, there is money on the agricultural agreement for this. We've got an increase of over 75 pst. All in all, now it's over 120 million. kr used for forest road construction every year. We saw yesterday in the nations a case from Levanger, where they now build eight new roads. One has not experienced such a rate within the forestry road construction for years. Wood marques are also lower than the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. The agricultural route code is also below the Ministry of Agriculture. We've simplified it, so it's easier to expand and upgrade these paths. Then we have proposed to strengthen the private ownership of the forest. It's like state forest is sitting on some properties that they themselves can't run effectively. There are some farmers who need to buy more forest in order to run their properties more efficiently. The sale that is now in progress was the Workers' Party itself that started. Now all of a sudden they're against it and they're going to stop it. We believe it is a good idea to expand it, so that more local forest owners can buy forest and thus get a more efficient operation of their properties. Then you talk about hunting and fishing rights. 80 pst. by Norway is owned by private individuals. We are among the countries of the world that have the richest hunting and fishing life. If there's a connection here, it's very strange that Norway is so good at it. Finally, I live well with the fact that Andersen's representative is not satisfied with the job we do for the forest industry. What I'm satisfied with is that the forest industry itself is very pleased with the work that this government is doing. It's been a change of pace, and I'll still hear that when I'm around. I'm very happy about that, because I believe in Norwegian forest industry for the future. We create more jobs by extracting the material that is there and transforming it into a new product.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1870	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1873	Now it sounds like I'm going to congratulate the Workers' Party on the acquisition of Helge Mögster. That's not what I meant. But I believe that the party must at least take seriously some of the statements made to the industrial builder. So he has an offshore part in his group. It's been falling in value in the last few months. What's his big problem is that he still has to pay taxes on wealth for values that don't create values now. His opinions in that field are very good, and I hope that the Workers' Party will take seriously the thoughts of the new member. I've had two discussions with Helge Mögster and his group in the last few years. The second discussion I had, where he was critical of us starting to rule, was about the sustainability indicators and the regime we set for the aquaculture. There we need to be absolutely sure that it will be sustainable production, so that we do not experience the problems we see, among other things. in the media today about the reputation of the industry. Nor do I feel that any other party is opposed to what was adopted in the notice, so it may be that it can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1880	The representative Odd Omland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1883	The representative Ingunn Foss commented on my comments and said that the business community in the South is pleased with the government. That it has calmed down, we can probably thank the cooperation parties for it, but I also experienced a ramask richness from the industry in the South as the government in its budget did not give priority to Mechatronics Innovation Lab and a new seed fund, which we have prioritised, cf. the great accomplishments that were then in the Friend of the Fatherland. With regard to regional development funds, I am dealing with both state and industrial policy-makers in South Africa who say that it matters. Obviously, it's important when you've cut 500 million. kr on regional development funds in recent years. So the representative Foss mentioned this by means of means. I am very familiar that the next year is almost not a crown that lies in front of West Agder for new road development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1892	The representative Ingunn Foss has also spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1895	I remember the representative Odd Omland that it was his government that proposed test lab in its time, without five ears for the purpose. Now we've at least got to a good start. But the reason I took the floor was the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg, who wondered if the seed fund was just an annual phenomenon. Then I would like to correct the possible misunderstanding by saying that in the South we are very happy that we have located a seed fund in the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1902	The representative, Ingrid Heggo, has also spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1905	Weather and wind have frightened agriculture, and according to the operators in the tourism industry, the krone price has been the main reason why travel life has had a good season – despite the slowdown in marketing. The fact that the Workers' Party has travel lives as one of five areas of activity, the representative makes Trellevik as the Workers' Party ‘snakes down’ travel lives. It's kind of weird. Then it is only to note that not only can the government itself not do well for the size of the action package, nor can they do good for what the action package actually contains. To the representative of Gundersen: Yes, the Labour Party has responded to our budgeting, to what is in it. The fact that Right doesn't like the answer is not the same thing as that it's not black. Then I really look forward to hearing what the Minister of Industry will answer here, because when I asked for the floor, I would say that she hasn't answered the challenges she's had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1916	I can reassure everyone that I had definitely intended to take the word, but I was actually a little busy listening, and it has indeed been an interesting debate. When it comes to the Hagebakken questions about the cluster projects, I can inform you that they are funded next year as well. It was then the municipal minister Erna Solberg who first introduced them. We have brought them up to a new level – with the Global Centres of Expertise – and we have also funded the new cluster projects. Pollestad made a visit to Statkraft and what reservations the government did not take. The representative Pollestad is probably aware that it was not the government's proposal to make changes to the Storting decision last year. But that's how Statkraft operates in a dynamic market, we've seen it through the spring. We have seen it with Fosen/Snillfjord, which went from not being a profitable project to being judged to be it again, and it was then that the Senter party wanted to withdraw parts of the capital. As for the influence we have on the election of the Chairman of the Board, it is that the Department is represented in the Election Committee. It's also quite common to clarify the choice of government with the largest owner, so of course we have an influence on that. But I have tried to explain that there is an election committee that is carrying out the work and a business meeting that will choose. Then Pollestad seems surprised that the department is briefed on matters we don't decide. Well, then I'll have to say that we do that all the time. We receive information from our companies throughout the year, and we have regular dialogues on fixed topics. It's important to us. The most special visit probably came from former Minister of Industry Giske, because there was an area that created headlines and unrest in his time in government, so it was probably ownership policy. Gizke believes that he is in a good position to give good advice on gender equality policies in business. That’s interesting — after eight years of paralysis in this area. So nothing happened. Last thing happened in the area, Ansgar Gabrielsen sat in that Council of State chair. We've done something about it. And then I have to comment on the fact that former government council Gieske believes that I should not deliver documents to the control committee. I must say I fully agree with that. That was not my wish either, so I contacted the control committee and the chairman of the control committee to prevent that from happening, and if possible to do so in a different way. It has not been listened to. I got a letter from a joint committee, and that's what I chose to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1933	It was the representative of Gundersen who made me take the floor. He's trying to present the government's industrial policy as excellent. One might be a little bit curious about that. In any case, my assessment is that the Court’s industrial policy has now been phased out in a way. It does not correspond to the time when the Right Business Policy is trying to take place. There is currently no optimism in Norwegian business. No one is cheering on opportunities created by today’s government – at least there are very few. To have fiscal policy as the only motivation for business is to question whether it actually works. At least it does not lead to many start-ups — nor is it in any way to solve the situation in the labour market, where unemployment increases for every single day. In fact, if there has been a real problem with the situation and has not promoted new measures over the two years in which they have been sitting, it is the government in terms of the labour market, in terms of new opportunities in business. It could be useful to know what concrete measures, in addition to the tax reductions, have any impact on business and have an impact on the situation in which it is located. I think it's going to be pretty hard to find a good answer to that. The reason for much of the growth in unemployment is the oil and gas industry. There are no cases delivered to Stortinget from today's government that go against the situation in the oil and gas industry. Not in one area has there been a single case, with the exception of the extension of the Johan Sverdrup field, which the companies themselves mainly bring to the Stortinget. So you have to be a little bit curious about that. So to the Minister of Industry, who says that the proposal on Statkraft was not the government's proposal. No, it would be very strange if it were the government's proposal, but it might be better if it were the government's proposal than the Storting's proposal. For it must be unsustainable for a Minister of Industry to see that the principles of ownership of the degrees are deflected by the parties supporting the Minister of Industry. And it is with great amazement that I hear the Minister of Industry in a way that devalues the fact that the international commitment to State power – as the largest European player on the renewable energy side – has almost been cancelled through a note in a budget debate. State councils should take away from that kind of case management in Stortinget. And if the Minister of Industry doesn't, I think the Right has got a strange attitude about ownership management principles and how to deal with large companies that operate internationally, and not least with other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1942	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1946	It is a bit encouraging to hear big business representatives from Hedmark who have no ambitions to raise an industrial stake on the raw material of which Hedmark and the Inland have a lot. I'll just have to register it. So SV is moving money from research into oil, on which the government is betting – which is non-renewable and polluting – and on to research into non-polluting renewables in industrial and technological development. I note that the representative, Gundersen, believes that Community money can be spent on a polluting oil industry that everyone knows needs to be phased out, while he is not willing to use equivalent resources on renewable raw materials that need to be phased in and that could give jobs in his own country. These fossil subsidies to which the Right and Government have doubts hinder the necessary transition to new, climate-friendly jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1953	Let me first say that I am pleased with the clarification – or the point – that the Minister of Industry made, that those papers should not have been sent over, and that it has been cleaned up. I think it is absolutely necessary to have confidence in the companies that you can talk confidentially, that you have that confidentiality. Let me also say that I fully agree with the Minister of Industry that the Minister of Industry has an active role towards the companies. You have to have high expectations about ethics, you have to have high expectations about returns, you have to have high expectations about the environment, you have to have high expectations about equality. It was a little strange to hear Øyvind Korsberg, when I remember that Harald T. Nesvik three years ago in this room thought that the only contact that would be between the company and the owner was through the general meeting. The progress party has, in truth, moved. But when it comes to equality, I wonder how the Minister of Economic Affairs handles it. We've got a new boss in Entra in the last year. It's a man. We heard nothing from the Minister of Industry. We've got a new boss in Mesta. It's a man. We haven't heard a word from the Minister of Industry. We got a new boss in Yara. It's a man. We didn't hear a word from the Minister of Industry. We got a new head of Telenor – a man – and heard nothing from the Minister of Economic Affairs until six months later. When VG raises the matter, the Minister of Industry is shocked by the process and by the fact that no women have been involved, even she has been briefed on the opposite. She knows everything. However, she is very surprised and summons the working director to a dishes meeting, where the director is probably going to repeat the same thing as the previous director told the Minister of Industry on 4 May. I record that the Minister of Industry didn't say a word about the Telenor case, about why she let me know she didn't, when she had known it for six months, and about why she called the director to explain the same thing that the previous director had probably explained. And when she even has the same definition of the final round as the then director, this becomes even more strange. It is good that the press addresses the lack of equality in business. It is good that this is put on the agenda. The gods should know that even as Minister of Industry, I also had my laps with both Telenor and others about the lack of equality and the recruitment of women, especially to the second highest level, which, of course, recruits to the top. But then there are these big, systematic, structural systems that you have to go on, not on individual matters, and you can't say things in the media that you know are wrong. If you are shocked six months after being informed, it must be called some kind of post-traumatic stress. One should react when it happened, not only when the media put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1966	If you are shocked — after being Minister of Industry himself — about the situation in Telenor, where there was a report on the lack of recruitment of women, it is probably a little late to bring it. I would say a little bit about innovation, because I'm always a little surprised when I hear Norwegian politicians, and politicians in general, talk about innovation. Let me do two examples of why. The government of tax collection is something for which there is no majority in this Chamber. The merger of the district court, even where two different district courts are located in the same house, turns out to be almost politically impossible – while KS estimates that the municipalities will need about 50,000 more employees by 2021, in all sectors of the municipality, given that they are organised in the same way as today. These are jobs they're afraid of not being able to fill, and it's not so strange, because the necessary competent people are sitting in the same municipalities and doing tasks that could have been solved in another way. Maybe we should really stop talking about innovation? The industry in which the Workers' Party is so concerned shall also be subject to more taxes. It shall be held down with one hand, and then something shall be lifted up with another. Those who are against business neutrality were unable to predict and support perhaps one factor, one industry that has affected us most today – whether it is media, music, film, service development or telemedicine and the way we communicate. Disruptive innovation, which has fundamentally changed the way we can organise society, could not see Norwegian politicians, nor anyone else. It's not the government that creates these jobs. Neither do they arise by themselves in a vacuum, but as a result of the changes in society. Indonesia’s Minister of Industry has apparently once said that the state is exceptionally bad at finding the good ideas itself, but the bad ideas are often very good at finding the state and the state instruments. And speaking of state instruments: the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg believed that there was ideological resistance to permacy. No, I'm not against permitting for ideological reasons, nor am I against permitting. But I've been on my own. I know what it's like to get his pay more than halved in a very uncertain situation without being able to move on with it. It's also about the moment you're on leave, you have two weeks' notice. And if you cancel yourself, you lose the rights that you actually have in contract, so you can't go on in your own life situation. In fact, I think it is right to protest against a scheme that primarily benefits the employer, which can raise the cost of this to society and society and LO, which for some reason seems to be a good employee policy. I see that this government invests where necessary, and I believe that it creates more work, more activity and conversion in a country that needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e1983	It was the intervention of the representative Giske that made me ask for the floor. This concerns the ownership management of Telenor by the State Council. The representative Geske said the papers should not have been sent to the control committee. It's now cleaned up. In fact, it was a unanimous committee – as the Council of State said – that asked for the papers. A letter of 9 this month has been sent from the Control Committee, which says: «As a result of the Committee's decision to suspend the hearing and the further examination of the matter, the file submitted shall be returned. The Committee assumes that the documents may be made available to the Committee upon re-examination of the matter.’;» It is clear what the Committee's opinion is. In the unanimous decision which led to the letter of 24 November, the Committee asked for: ‘The Committee asks for all correspondence and reports from meetings between Telenor and the Ministry, including: [[representatives of]] political management, after VimpelCom Ltd. was established in 2009. In addition, the Committee wishes to be provided with corresponding correspondence, reports and, where appropriate, reports on meetings. other written material related to the establishment of VimpelCom Ltd. before the establishment of the company in 2009.’» What was done here by the Committee is entirely in line with the usual practice of requesting documents in the case. What's at the heart of this is what happened when VimpelCom Ltd was set up. on 5 October 2009, when Telenor and the Russian company Alfa established the company. The company's head office was to be in the Netherlands, while the owner company was to be registered in the tax haven of Bermuda. According to Telenor, the scheme was chosen for legal and tax reasons. The company was listed in the United States. The task of the control committee is to ensure that the members of the government exercise ownership over their underlying offices and enterprises according to the will of the Storting. Therefore, the central point of the control committee is the degree to which the Minister of Industry has, or could have, exercised ownership since Telenor, as a state-owned majority-owned company, organised its ownership of VimpelCom in the above legal and fiscal manner. This is the nucleus. It is maritimely the state council's management of ownership and not the Ecocrim and other countries' investigation of criminal matters in the matter which is the matter of the control committee. What the representative Giske here says stands in stark contrast to that of the Workers' Party's three members of the Control Committee, and that is the matter under consideration in the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2006	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2009	It was the representative of Nordby Lunde who made me take the floor. I think in many ways that it's good to hear her, primarily because she expresses a lot of the thoughts on the right when it comes to running an active business policy. You should not get involved, because the good ideas are not in politics, as it is said. Then it's nice that the same government is going to make a bioeconomy strategy. In those areas where we believe it is important to enter, it is because the good ideas exist, but we are asking for measures aimed at infrastructure, access to capital, research, etc. I think in many ways it's more than revealing to hear that kind of argument. So to the question of Statskog: I just want to say that we've been followers of arrondering sales, but we think that now it's enough, you've sold enough, and the foot should be put in the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2016	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2019	The representative of Storberget must be on the wrong track, must he? We believe it is actually quite important to have the right frameworks around how to bet, but it is quite different to designate specific bets – we saw that with Dooria – and we have been reminded of that several times. But then to the representative of Aasland: I think it is special that you come so late in the debate, when everyone has used up the speaking time, and ask questions that could really be answered by just reading the main article from the case and going into the budget and reading a little bit. We don't have time to answer, simply. I think it's special. So a little bit about Telenor: I want to remind you that the company is in the middle of a very serious investigation and you have a control committee that the national lawyer has had to ask to wait a bit. When Giske says he had his laps with Telenor, we are well aware that it happened from Lorry. I want to remind you again that nothing happened in eight years in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2028	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2031	It's always nice to be able to contribute to the debate. One of the things that really makes me skeptical about being a politician, and that sometimes makes me look at these debates with a little bit of dissatisfaction, is the ability and the will to really be wrong with each other and misunderstand each other on purpose. Has this government ever said that we will not invest in Norwegian industry, in ideas, in innovation and innovation? Everyone sitting here understands that it falls on their own unreasonableness. Nothing of what I said went in that direction either. We invest where we have faith, but we don't think we can always predict which jobs are the new ones, nor what are the growth industries of the future. I'm sure in Stavanger these days the jobs of the future are created, but in a different way than what I know could have been possible, and what anyone here knows could have been possible. What if they're going to hire 50 in Norway and 12,000 outside? I don't know. That's how Facebook has operated, but it may well be that the next hundred years' industrial workplace is also created there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2036	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2040	I just want to make it very clear to the Minister of Industry that she has full support from the Workers' Party in order not to spread these documents. We have an institution that can go through the Council of State papers, documentation and dialogue. It's called the Riksrevision, and it's the Storting's agency to control the government's administration, so here she's on safe ground. Then Lundtigen will have a different opinion. I think it's a pity that we didn't get any more clarification about how this ownership is being exercised. I support the Council of State in having an active role towards gender equality in companies, but I advise her to have this role towards all companies and the structural recruitment and gender equality strategies that companies need to succeed. It'll be a better strategy than the one she's chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2045	Again to the representative Giske: the Supervisory Committee is conscious of its responsibility to deal with material that is excluded from the public, in this matter as in all other matters. When the representative Giske says that this is material that should not be disseminated, it is correct, but it is quite different from the fact that the material should not be transferred to the control committee. What is special here is the situation that has now arisen, where the representative Giske, former Minister of Industry, is going so hard, in stark contrast to the last letter sent by the Control Committee on 9 December. Here's what it says: ‘The Committee shall assume that the documents may be made available to the Committee upon re-examination of the matter.’;» That is the situation in the control committee, and there can be no doubt that this is the case. The argument now that that decision is to be reversed will be interesting to follow up if it is followed up. Once the matter has been taken up so much, I also want to refer to something that was said in the VG on 7 October 2009, when it was found out what the then state council Sylvia Brustad had done. In that context, I said the following: ‘The ownership structure chosen here is very regrettable. The fact that the State Council Sylvia Brustad is satisfied and refers to the scheme as a ‘good agreement’ is rather remarkable.’ Furthermore, I said that I feared the Council of State had lost control of what was really happening in the state Telenor, and indicated that Brustad in a press release made it clear that she had not had the opportunity to ‘enter into all the business aspects of the agreement’. The essence of the matter now is, as I said in my first post, the extent to which the Council of State – in the sense of those who have been involved in the matter – has or had the opportunity to exercise ownership in the Telenor case as it is expected to be exercised, because here Telenor has had a very high profile on ethical issues and in terms of zero tolerance for corruption. This is very central. It will be interesting to follow the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2064	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2078	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2085	For treatment today, we have a case of an increase in the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, but the case also contains other proposals for changes. Let me briefly explain the other changes. A ceiling is placed on the sum of disability benefits and child allowances, and in this context we also make minor changes to the legislation, in order to make the legislation easier to understand and enforce. In the rules on day-to-day pay, we clarify the responsibility of the unemployed. We also do more of the day-care rules during vacation according to how pay rules work. Finally, we also make some changes in additional social benefits for older people who have come to Norway, among others. on the basis of family reunification. Let me then go over to the main part of this matter. This is a very pleasant matter. Unfortunately, it is not a unanimous and total collapse that is behind the suspension and the decision later. I expect the minority today to be able to explain their view, which has not been done before, despite repeated calls. I think it's okay to start a little bit with the history. For many years, married and cohabiting pensioners were punished by a curtailment of their basic pension of 25 p.m. The reason some people used was that it was more reasonable to live together than to live alone, and therefore they chose to cut the basic pension for those who were married, and eventually also for those who lived together. The party of progress has been a strong opponent of this for many years. It was also for this reason that the Progress Party made a clear budgetary requirement for the Bondevik II Government in 2003 to reduce this reduction. Fortunately, we got through, along with the Bondevik II parties, and reduced the abbreviation to 15 pst. But the Progress Party continued the fight and got through in the Nydalen negotiations to further reduce the curtailment, from 15 p.m. to 10 pst. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party for accepting this, and for having now helped to follow up this important promise in the Nydalen Declaration, which has been a taboo for the Progress Party for many years. The reason why the Progress Party has had this vision is our view of retirement. We don't think retirement is a good man from the state. Retirement is a vested right, which has been paid in for a long life, and then the government has no right whatsoever to arbitrarily cut it on the basis of, for example, marital status. This will benefit many. About 500,000 old-age pensioners will benefit from the decision we are making today. About 140,000 disabled people will benefit from the decision we are making today. In addition, 15,000 others will also benefit from this. So there are 650 000 pensioners who want to benefit from this, and that's why I'm surprised that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are voting against this today. We are talking here about a group of people who have been with and built our country, who have worked and paid taxes over a long life, and when they become pensioners, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre want to take from them $8,000 per couple, just because they are married or cohabited. Fortunately, we have done something about this unfairness today. I look forward to the debate, because I am surprised that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have not dared to take the debate earlier. I went in and looked at the comments to see what reason these three games have for not avoiding the pensioners to keep their own pension. They argue back to 1936 and believe that the way society was in 1936 is a good reason for some to be punished in 2015. But fortunately, these parties are in a minority, and today we're going to have to do something about this unfairness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2108	It is unusual that legislative changes resulting from the budget are dealt with in advance of technical proposals, but then there has also been an unusually persistent budgetary process this year. Today's case has several technical adjustments. I'll leave them. But we also need to deal with unsocial proposals that affect many people's everyday lives. The government continues to take away those who have little already. Even the only proposal that does not concern cuts in social benefits does not hit those who have the least to live off. The party of progress turns the matter upside down when they say that shortening the basic pension is an economic attack on marriage and a commitment to living together. It is and has always been essential in the Social Security system that single pensioners should have a little higher minimum insurance than those who are two about the expenditure. There is a difference between one and two pensions when the bills are due. The SSB figure shows that the income of a single minimum pensioner is less than NOK 200000. Married couples with one over 67 years of age have almost triplets. The working party prioritizes those pensioners who are at least already, those who have the most difficulty. They're not that many, and they're easy to ignore. Fortunately, a majority of the Stortinget agree that these too deserve our attention. Some of the government's unfair policies are corrected, but the majority proposal only captures the age pensioners. The proposals of the Workers' Party shall include all the same persons with minimum performance. In addition, housing aid and transport aid are increased, which also affects the target population. Then we have the amendment to the Children's Supplement. Once again, the social conscience of the great majority was greater than that of the government, but unfortunately that was not enough. The Labour Party has previously voted against both the cut proposals, both the government's and the majority of the population. Earlier this week, we discussed measures against child poverty. Today’s proposal is a targeted cut for families with poor advice, families with less opportunity to influence their own situation than most others. Then it is cut to the unemployed, only in 2014, then in 2015 and now in 2016. First, the length of payments from the Wage Guarantee Fund is cut, so the holiday money, now there is extended quarantine time and tax on termination benefits that are the government's Christmas greeting to the unemployed – together nearly 2 million. every year at a time when unemployment is rising sharply. There may be several reasons why an employee chooses to resign. The working environment may be unsustainable, or one party may have a new job to make the whole family move. The working party does not consider it reasonable to increase the quarantine period in such cases. Finally, to the changes for supplementary social benefits for short-term residents in Norway, the Progress Party likes to talk about immigrants but also includes Nordics who have lived abroad. They get the minimum pension. Last year the government and the bulk of the population took the support supplement. Now they're taking the pension from those who've come to family reunion. Once again cut for those who have little from before. Those admitted to nursing homes and old people's homes shall not retain anything for their own consumption, as other people get. The Labour Party opposes such discrimination and, frankly, cannot understand that the Christian People's Party and the Left support this. The Labour Party is ready for next week's political debate on the state budget. Then we will make the whole of our budget visible, where we give priority to action against unemployment and measures for those who have the least. I take this up with the Workers' Party's proposal and draw attention to the fact that the Workers' Party will vote against a number of legislative changes, in line with the comments we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2136	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2139	The centre party will also present the whole of our budget when we come to the budget debate, but there are some points that I would like to address in this matter. Only in the case of daily allowances: the Central Party supports the proposal to increase the duration of the extended waiting period and the time-limited withdrawal of daily allowances from eight to twelve weeks at the time of the initial penalty, but we do not support the proposal to extend the waiting time and time-limited withdrawal of daily allowances from twelve weeks to six months – and further the details set out therein. Point 2 is the question of increased basic pensions for married and cohabiting persons. The centre party does not consider it appropriate to give priority to it, including the unsatisfied, who receives a converted disability benefit, cf. our alternative budget for 2016. It is, as the Workers' Party said, a claimed principle as early as the old age strike was introduced in 1936, that lonely people with whom no one has to share the expenses are to be satisfied by the benefits we are talking about here. To present it as an economic attack on marriage or a commitment to life, I would say, is incalculable. There are many differences that we have in our social security and benefit system that are justified by objective conditions, and this is such a fundamental objective relationship, where loneliness has a different economic burden, a heavier financial burden than the cohabiting and married one, and therefore we have not prioritised it. One could well agree and agree on it if one had had enough money, but there are quite a number of worthy needing groups who need a stronger economic handle from the state than what they get today, and which we prioritise in our budget over this. That is a thorough justification for the proposal, and therefore the Central Party will vote against the corresponding legislative proposals, i.e. the proposal for amendments to the fourth paragraph of § 3-2, § 3-2, fifth paragraph, and § 12-13, second paragraph. So finally about the children's supplement for recipients of disability benefits: it's a proposal that's discussed earlier. We have been clear in our position together with the SV and the Workers' Party. We stand by it, we perceive the change in law that is now, as a follow-up to previous changes that we have been opposed to, and therefore we see little reason to vote against this now, because our position is clear. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party No. 5, which unfortunately had to be given as a loose proposal, because we did not receive the necessary assistance from the department before the suspension was given. It is a proposal that summarises all the laws that need to be amended as a result of the views of the Central Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2152	The President assumes that the representative also wishes to raise proposal No. 4, which is in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2155	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2160	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2163	We come back to these debates with full weight the next week, but I thought I'd make a few comments on the bill we're going to send off the guard. First of all, what the case spokesperson spent a lot of time on, namely married and cohesive pensioners and the curtailment rules: as stated in the Left's Alternative State Budget, which we voted for primarily, this is not a priority we think is right to take next year. Not least from a generation perspective, I have to say that I have a very serious problem with this being agreed. That being said, it is clear that a budget must bring together a majority in the Stortinget, and those who are to be included in a budget majority must give and take. The left is thus involved in implementing this. Then I would say that it is in itself a pleasure that we also, as part of a budgetary settlement, adjust some of those who really have bad advice. It's the same minimum pension list. There's a reason to enjoy. So to this with the kids' supplement for failure. There was a thorough discussion and discussion in this Chamber in connection with the budget last year. Now the implementation comes, but I think there's a reason to turn down the rhetoric from some of the opponents here two-three and four-five. What we're doing is making sure that the child supplement scheme for the disabled now is in line with the corresponding schemes, and it's even a little bit more favourable. But I think it's an important principle that should be established, that it should always pay more to try to do a job, try to work on the labour market, than not to do it. The fact that the Workers' Party, which traditionally stands up for the line of work, is going so hard against this, where one can get up to 95 pst. on the basis of their income, I think I am disappointing. This is a necessary and timely alignment. Speaking of adjustment, last but not least, it is also criticised that some changes are made to the unemployment benefit policy. So it's going to be about that because unemployment is now increasing, it's important not to do this. I'll say the opposite. Just because the unemployment rate increases and there will be a huge cost in that context, a critical look at all aspects of the day-to-day arrangements is needed. Then I think it's wise, as the bulk of the population now does, to see, among other things. the difference between those who are unemployed on a voluntary basis and those who are involuntarily unemployed. It's called priority. Now, when we're dealing with a situation of rising unemployment, it's wise. It is not easy to make any adjustments to make sure that the system is resilient also to meet new challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2182	The representative Wiborg speaks as if what we are dealing with today is a policy for the elderly and pensioners alone. It is also a policy for distribution. For SV, it is essential to ensure a safe and good old age. It is fundamental and also shows our policies and priorities and what we prioritise where we have power. That is why we take care of the elderly and the funds for it and want to ensure that services are adapted to themselves and their needs, so we have made a proposal that we want to prevent the retirement pension by privatisation, and therefore we suggested that pensioners should not lose purchasing power in the year’s settlement. Not least when we were in the good community of the red-green government, we raised the minimum pensioners and much more got to live for. It was a big promise and it was a targeted promise, where we took a decisive step to get people to live more for, and for the minimum pensioners to get out of the poverty category. And not least, we seized on the property tax, where we made changes: from hitting the elderly with money in the savings account to hitting the millionaires. Today, we are going to vote against reducing the abbreviation for married and cohabitants. That's because it's going to cancel out. That's not where the funds are needed most now. On the other hand, we will vote in favour of the proposal to secure pensions for the minimum pensioners. It is about the fact that for SV, justice is to deliver according to ability and get as needed. It is reasonable that the funds are distributed where they are most needed. We see that even if the government is out when it wants to, especially when we talk about tax relief to those who have the most and not least to government election campaign sponsors, the government's priorities are also marked by rather petty cuts that people affected will notice hard. Several could be mentioned, but that it is suggested that stomi-operatives pay more for necessary consumables – I remember that many of them are also older – is one of several examples of this. Although it is something to be addressed in another debate and included in the budget, it is about seeing a whole in politics and in priorities. That is also what we are seeing today, and that is why we will be voting against the changes, such as: is on supplementary social benefits. We think these are petty changes and cut off by the government. In addition, today’s treatment also affects the children’s supplement for the disabled to the greatest extent and is a reminder of the government’s policy for the poor and disabled and to take more from the poor and disabled. We record that is a Christmas present that has to be brought into the coming year. We want to vote against it, as we have done in previous treatments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2195	What we are dealing with today is a series of necessary legislative changes, such as: follow-up to decisions taken in the budget last year and decisions entered in the budget for 2016. Let me first say that it is a joyous day for the country's pensioners. It's a joyous day for the government, and it's a joyous day for the Progress Party, which has been fighting for many years to reduce the shortening of married and cohabiting pensioners. The Right and Advance Party government has clearly stated in the Government Platform that the curtailment should be reduced. The government is a believer and delivers curtailment from next year. In addition, together with the cooperation parties, the lone minimum pensioners have been raised by NOK 4000. This means that about 70,000 minimum pensioners living alone will receive better income from next year. On an annual basis, about 650 000 married and cohabiting pensioners will receive NOK 4000 more each, a total of NOK 8 000 more to live for. In the case of miscarriage, there is a clarification and a follow-up to the decision taken by the Stortinge last year. Similarly, there is a clarification regarding the equivalence of benefits from the rest of the world with equivalent benefits from Norway when testing the child supplement. I think that is the right and important principle. So to the daily allowance concerned – it's also a follow-up from last year's decision. With regard to the tightening of supplementary social benefits, this has been done in the context of family reunification. I have to say that I react a little to the way the representative Aasrud and the Labour Party put this forward. I feel that when you refer to the matter we are dealing with today, from this pulpit you are more concerned about pointing to the snow that fell last year. You're more concerned with the snow that fell last year than the changes for next year's government budget. The concept of discrimination is used. If I come to Norway, have had short living and want family reunification with my mother or my sister or brother – if they are then 64 years old, it is absolutely legitimate that they should cover this family reunion themselves, and that they should either fund themselves and their lives or that those who bring them here must do so. But if you're 67 years old, you don't have to. Then you have to have access to additional social benefits. It's a very special principle for me. It's discrimination, it's discrimination. It is discriminatory. The government is clearing up this discrimination. So to SV, which indicates that when they were in government, you did so incredibly much for the minimum pensioners. With respect to reporting, there was the nurse in involuntary 50 pst. the position, it was the checkout at REMA, it was they with occupational pension who paid the amount for the minimum pensioners. It was them SV and the red-green government sent the bill to. It also came out well in the social security settlement, by deducting the supplementary pension and subordinating it by 0.65 pst. So don't come here and say it was those who raised the minimum pensioners, because they didn't use a single fresh penny. This is what this government, together with its cooperative parties, is doing – lifting 70,000 minimum single pensioners, with fresh money. It's something you can be much more proud of. I want to draw attention to the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 3 on supplementary social benefits – in the word ‘samint’, there is no ‘n’ in the proposition. With regard to Section 12 of the cancellation, I also see that there is a reference to the fact that the benefit falls away from the installation in the institution, where no change has been made. That's actually how it works today, it's clarified from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2210	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2215	I must say that I was a little surprised that it was not a single line to this matter. It goes into the pattern we've seen, that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party want to inject this matter. I heard with interest about Rigmor Aasrud's posts, where she barely mentioned the main part of the case, so why the Workers' Party is voting against reducing the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. This means that the previous clear position expressed in this case is the quotation of former Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland when the Stortinget discussed an increase in the minimum pension in 1997. From this pulpit, he thought it was ‘feeling’ to come up with that kind of proposal. The representative Lundtigen was up and argued that it is more reasonable to be in a couple relationship than to be single. He's right — in most cases. However, it is worth asking if the representative Lundtigen then believes that people who receive health benefits or daily allowances, who are married or cohabiting, will also get a curtailment – if it is to be complete in Lundtigen’s reasoning. If that is the case, I hope that the representative Lundtigen will be able to clarify whether or not the Senterpartiet wants a curtailment for those who are on sick pay and daily allowances. If not, what is the reason for the discrimination? If I can be a little unparliamentary, the special post came from the representative Bergstø, who argues for distribution reasons against reducing the abbreviation. Is it really such that 650 000 pensioners, who have worked and paid taxes over a long life, will be cut off because the representative Bergstø and SV believe that the country's pensioners are so rich? These are the rich people who are now going to have their pension cut, so that SV can distribute it further. It is a policy that the Progress Party strongly disagrees with. The pensioners deserve the money they have paid for themselves through a long life – the Stortinget should not take that money. For the country's pensioners, it's worth noting this debate. I have a clear challenge for those who are voting against today. Will any new government consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre cut pensions? This is what they are actually voting for today – against the government’s proposals. It's worth noting. I hope they can be honest about whether they want to cut the pension by $8,000 for married and cohabiting pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2228	I understand it's joy in the Progress Party when one first got Right and then the other two collaboration parties agreed to reduce the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. There's a lot of money in the Progress Party in the government, like in the opposition. This is $2.7 billion. kr annually in the future. There are quite a number of discussions we have in this room around groups that are really struggling. We have a lot of discussions about those who are struggling with alcohol, psychiatry, housing, the qualification program and the whole thing, where, based on the argumentation about economics, there is no willingness to do anything. But these groups are getting priority. I stand by what I said that there has been a curtailment since 1936 on an objective basis in this performance. The objective basis has not changed. There are different bases for objective benefits, each of which has its reasons, which have been discussed and which have been discussed over time and which have stood. This is a change that we in the Center Party are opposed to. We believe that the difference should exist, in order to be direct. We don't have that money if we're going to have a lot of money for other groups that need it more. That's the core of the matter. To the representative of Wiborg, there's no talking about inflating anything. We don't want to push it down at all, we want to take the discussion about it, and we hope that the Progress Party has the same amount of money in other areas in the future, when the state's revenues are going to go down rather than up. So this is, as the representative Kirsti Bergstø said, a question of distribution, it's a question of priorities: who has the greatest basis for improving their financial performance? So finally, in the case of VI, § 12-15 Children's Supplements: When SV sees it as necessary to vote against that paragraph, I will, after further consideration, also support it and advise the Group of the Centre Party to vote against § 12-15 Children's Supplements, so that there is no doubt that there is a uniform approach on the part of the Centre Party in the case of the Centre Party and SV when the case was previously dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2245	I would like to thank the representative Lundtigen for at least being honest and admitting that the centre party does not want to give priority to this, and the representative also argued why the centre party is against this. He therefore believes that the country's pensioners deserve 2.7 billion. kr less than what is now adopted, which I think is sin, and disagrees with. But there is respect for at least to argue for their views, as opposed to the Workers' Party in particular, which still does not use the opportunity of this pulpit to argue why they are against this. I actually think 650 000 pensioners should have a right to know why the country's largest party believes that pensioners should get 2.7 billion. kr less in retirement than they now get. But then the representative was Lundteg, in that there's a lot of money. Yes, there is a lot of money that has been wrongly taken from the country's pensioners for a long time. The fact that one has been unfairly curtailed for many years is not an argument for continuing an unsocial shortening. That's why I'm glad we're now taking action to improve this. The representative, Lundtigen, was also aware that he would rather spend the money on drugs, but then I would like to remind the representative, Lundtigen, of what is also done in this state budget: We are strengthening the drug field by about 400 million. kr. In the Ruplan, we'll strengthen it by 2.4 billion. kr. So yes, we have a government that manages to think completely, that is capable of prioritizing the most important areas, prioritizing the weakest in society. We can do that without cutting a earned pension, for example. with the justification of the Socialist Left Party: that it is the country's pensioners who have to pay for their so-called distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2268	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to three lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2288	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Åse Michaelsen, who is also the rapporteur on the matter. She's not in the room, and then we move on to the regular list of speakers, and that's Tone-Helen Toften. She's not in the room either, and I can't see that the Council of State is either. That means we're moving on to case number. Eight. - Here comes a case rapporteur. Then I think we should give the case rapporteur an opportunity before I close case No. 7, to take the floor in the matter. Åse Michaelsen, case rapporteur, the word is yours – a little overtime!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2299	Thank you, President, I very much appreciate the goodwill. Things are going fast, and it's almost Christmas. As you can see, this is actually a case based on previous decisions to establish a road company – New Veier AS. The purpose of this law and this matter we are now dealing with is to regulate transitional issues relating to the transfer of private and public law from the State Road Administration to the development company. The law does not require the development company to be established as a governmental body in addition to the powers expressly conferred upon it by amendments to or in compliance with other laws. Furthermore, one can see that in the proposition's cap. 2 sets out some issues relating to the transfer of legal data from the State Road Agency to the development company. In the Chapter of Proposition. 3 considers the need for changes in other laws, while in Chapter 3. 4 details the content of the legislative proposal. The majority of the committee, the parties Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, support the proposal as it stands here. It is important that we are open to both – and. This shall not be a discussion with or against the road carrier. There should also be no discussion about previous decisions – one should primarily put the law in place, the framework for the establishment of the road company. There has been little time for the case making itself – one must say. It's barely been. We've worked very quickly in the committee, and I want to commend the other parties, especially the opposition parties, who have been very responsive to this matter. This is exciting – what's happening. And I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, am looking forward to other matters that affect both the road company and the framework we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2320	In this case, the Workers' Party agrees with the objective of more money and a comprehensive development of our road system, but we disagree with the tool. Current NTP, adopted by the Government of Stoltenberg II, is the largest investment in transport of the time. In the years to come, infrastructure will be built and developed for billions of dollars. The Labour Party believes that we have an established organisation that would have been more appropriate to use, and that it would have been better if we could bring together the political forces to improve this main road planning and construction tool in Norway, namely the State Road Service. So instead, you choose to spend 60 million. kr to build a new organisation, and that is the amount for 2015 only. The Workers' Party believes that the State Road Service must be able to manage several projects in its own project organisation and submit to the Government and to the Government the needs for order and progress. This follows the same logic as the scheme of specific priority road projects, with its own Roman Numeral Decision, its own project organisations and commitments over several years. In Report. St. 26 for 2012–2013, National Transport Plan 2014–2023, is well described how to ensure predictable funding and rational implementation of major projects. This may include, inter alia: mention is made of increased use of total enterprise prices. We believe that the benefits of portfolio management must be achieved without establishing a new company, which will split a professional environment and compete for limited road skills, engineers and planners. Because there are no more engineers and planners even if you create a new company. It is worth noting that, although the road extension company, New Veier, is now established from the turn of the year, there is still considerable uncertainty about how operations and maintenance are to be carried out, and there are also very few clear answers from the government parties on how many of the company's tasks should be handled in practice. We believe that this poses an increased risk that the road sections will once again break up and be carried out less comprehensively. There is one development that will help us to take more steps back in the construction of important infrastructure here to land. For this specific case concerning the transfer of public and private law from the State Road Administration to a State Road Development Company, it is necessary for the Workers' Party to point out that the procedure is characterised by urgent and very short deadlines, which has made it difficult for the Storting to deal with the case. Similar criticisms were also highlighted during the treatment of Reporting. St. 27 for 2014-2015, Straight Track – Railway sector reform. Such processes are – if I may say so – unfortunate. The working party is critical that there has been no ordinary consultation round with the possibility of recording, as the matter is more than formality. In fact, this concern confirms the Minister for Transport himself in his response to the Transport Committee on 3 December 2015, which states: ‘The proposed act provides for the transfer of the obligations and rights of the Road Administration of the State which are directly linked to the specific projects transferred from the State Road Service to the new development company.’ It is obvious to the Workers' Party that these are not just formalities, and that the bill also does not have any obvious limitations. It has not been possible to provide an exhaustive overview of the specific obligations, public rights, concessions and authorisations to be transferred. This reinforces our view of the need for an ordinary consultation round before the legislative decision can be taken. On this basis, the Labour Party will vote against the entire Prop bill. 31 L.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2347	Through all the discussions we have had on the organisation of road construction in Norway, we have stressed that the overall objective of the Centre Party is to develop a modern and forward-looking transport system for traffic management, so that it becomes simpler, faster and safer – for the benefit of its citizens and for the benefit of business. We support the organisation of the road sector in such a way that the Community can get the most out of the money, and we are committed to ensuring that the road sector, like all other sectors, has an effective implementation tool that minimises unnecessary red tape. When the Senterpartiet presented the red-green government’s transport plan for 2014-2023, it was with a strong emphasis that Norway had an improvement potential in this area and with concrete proposals on how to establish new and smarter models for road construction. Then there was a civil majority and a new government in 2013, and the new government strongly needed to mark initiatives in the field of transport – as in other fields. Significantly, this was expressed first and foremost through a strong focus on realizing the red-green transport plan, and a little pointed-forward, one can say that the greatest merit of the Minister of Transport sitting is that he has gone on a good ideal time in the loop network that Marit Arnstad has set up. I don't mean to be sarcastic – I actually think it's a propitiatory move. I have more difficulty swallowing the government’s need to reorganize almost all government sectors – almost on autopilot. Today we are dealing with a relationship related to a new road company. It sounds a little lenient. But sometimes I wonder if it would have been just as okay if this case had been called ‘proposal to split Norwegian road construction into two’. The sitting government has a strong belief that they can perform miracles by throwing around on the organization map. Even I think it's limited what we can achieve in this way. As a rule, good policies are about securing enough resources for the task to be solved – here as in most other contexts. In the past, we had one implementation organisation in Norway – The State Road Administration. Now we're gonna get two. Both organisations have to do the same job in practice, and in the years to come they have to compete for funds from the same state fund. If the road company “win” the budget struggles, it will be bad news for the state road service – and vice versa. If you're not satisfied with what's being put on the table, it's not sure that the trick to do is to invite a new cook into the kitchen to work in parallel with the one you had there before. The more popular wisdom has proverbs that fit such situations. At the top of the whole, there was a very concrete proposal for improving the efficiency of road construction in the current NTP – proposals that the current government chose to put in the drawer. There was a direction to make road construction more efficient, both by changing the way the Stortinget managed resources into important projects, by changing the way in which the planning and treatment of road projects were implemented, and by changing the way in which the implementation organisation worked. The red-green scheme of ‘special priority projects’ has all been brought into the debate, and I feel sure that we have not seen the last thing about that model. How much wiser would it have been to allow the State Road Administration to govern the development of the portfolio, to have project organisations and to ensure stable and sufficient funding over several years in the state budget? Finally, I would like to point out that the government in this case has added up to a rough drive which can hardly be described as ‘vigilant’. We have all understood that the new road company is the separate ‘baby’ of the Council of State. I cannot understand that there is something about the proposition we are dealing with, which could not have been presented earlier in the session. Now it is being dealt with at express speed here in the house, and there is little room for democratic discussion in which all those interested in the matter are heard. I would warn against the government turning this kind of time pressure into a habit, because I feel confident that the new company would have had a better chance of success if it were not subject to more controversy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2377	I had strictly taken no intention of taking the word in this matter. Nevertheless, I found it expedient. Let me first of all thank both the rapporteur and the entire committee for their good cooperation. This bill has been dealt with quickly, and there has been great will from all parties to get it in place. The purpose of the Act is to regulate the transfer of rights and obligations in connection with the establishment of the new road company Nye Weier AS. The rapporteur has given a good account of the background and content of the legislative proposal, and it follows the same principles as in the previous transformation of state-owned businesses into own companies. I therefore see no reason to go into it more closely in this article. It is important that we get this law in place, so that it can come into force from 1 January 2016, and that the new road company can become operational from the same date. I have great faith that a new road company can provide the industry and Norwegian road construction with new ways of working, as well as challenging and complementary to the State Road Administration. The goal must be that we can build roads faster and more cost-effectively than what we have done so far. However, I am somewhat surprised – without having to have a long debate about the road company – that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are so blatantly opposed to the establishment of this company. We all agree that we spend too much time planning, that the actual construction time can be streamlined, too much is being built piece by piece and divided, and that the cost growth per metre of road has been alarmingly high. Then it might be time to try out new ways of working. In that perspective, it is amazing that the Workers' Party and the Centre will not give the company Nye Veier AS a chance. Fortunately, we have a large majority who believe that the company will help to plan and build more roads faster and at a more favourable price. We provided the basis for this through the processing of the wholesale message This year. We are now adding money to the 2016 budget and providing the necessary powers through this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2392	I appreciate the fact that the Stortinge today adopts the legislative proposal that has been submitted. This is not an anarchy proposal that gives the road company the freedom to do exactly what they want. It is a very clearly defined area, contrary to the impression of the Workers' Party, that with regard to the road sections for which the road company is to be responsible, it is now possible to begin to transfer responsibility from the Road Administration to the road company – no more, no less. The carrier must not do what they want with all other roads. So this is very clearly framed, as opposed to what someone has tried to claim. So someone thinks this is going very fast. I remember that Stortinget had the overall debate on road reform before the summer. So since then, one has had six months to digest this. There are no new elements in what the government is now proposing. This is just an implementation of what the Storting has already adopted. If someone thinks it's urgent, I'd rather say it reminds me a little of a pace you had before. This is more cruise speed for today's government. We decide things, and then we implement them. We don't start re-examining it once we've adopted it and know where we're going. I remember well when I myself sat in the Storting as an opposition politician, how many debates we had that now we had to be better off building a road faster, and we had to cut the planning time. How many times have we not read in the Evening Post, in Technical Weekly, yes, in almost all kinds of journals and newspapers in this country, that things take too long? One plans piece by piece and piece, one builds piece by piece and split. We have to change that. Of course, there's a lot of ways you can do it, but this is the way the government has suggested. I don't feel that the opposition has a single alternative suggestion for how they would do it differently, besides continuing as they have always done. But it's a little strange that it's suddenly been the alternative, when we know that the Workers' Party's people in the Transport Committee last spring were out and said in the evening post that the Red-Green government probably got a little too careful when they crashed, they didn't challenge the system enough, things got too heavy. So when you're in opposition, you're going to have to resort to the same policy. It's now that one really should have tried to rethink and challenge a little, but one prefers that one had before, that one has admitted that did not work. I think that's too passive. It would have been more interesting if one had come up with constructive suggestions on how one could possibly frame it in another way, extend it, do it differently, instead just say no to any proposal for change. That this is another way of working, there's no doubt about it. And we see that – almost all professional journals are receiving this reform with thumbs up, with positive expectations, but with a expectation that it will also have to be implemented, and not just promised. That one actually works differently today, there's no doubt about it. It is just to read Stavanger Evening magazine from for approx. a month and a half ago, when they mentioned the E39 from Stavanger to Kristiansand, which is one of the projects to enter the road company, and when they talked to one of the planners from Vegvesenet, who said that now they also work in a completely different way, now they are not just sitting and planning one and a short parcel, they are sitting and planning 20 miles at a time. That's what we wanted to achieve, and now we see that the road planners in the Road Service say that's what's going on. And then there's someone who thinks that no, that was best before. Then one points out how one in the state budget has its own entry for E6 Alta, a separate entry for E16 Fileberg. This is the least flexible way of building a road, because if the Road Administration finds out that they could do more on this project during the year, they have no authority to re-prioritize within their own budget. Then they have to return to Stortinget in order for Stortinget to move money from one post to another. Rather, it is preferable that one had a large bag post for all national road investments, so that one had actually had flexibility at Vegvesenet. After all, the last steps that the previous government made in its so-called change were to remove that flexibility on the Alta project and on the File Mountain. At least I don't recommend that we do more of that. Then it is better to make sure that we get one clear order for the road company, long-term financing and great professional weight in implementation. Then we will also make many of the changes in the Road Administration, but the challenge here is that we do not have multiannual budgets in the Stortinget. That is why we have put it in place for the road company through an agreement, and then we will work with Vegvesen and improve them through today's arrangements. So here it's going to happen a lot, within today's state road system and within the road company. But when it comes to stopping and doing nothing and it seems that it's been too fast, when, after all, it's been six months since the Stortinge made the previous decision, I can't quite stick with the turns.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2414	I really didn't think I should take the word or line in this matter, but after the Minister's speech, I feel it necessary, because he drove in a familiar style, of course. The first thing I want to ask the Minister about is an information that is for treatment over the weekend, in terms of age, but that has to do with this matter, and that is the establishment of this new company. It turns out it's spent 60 million. I want to get this company up – so far. My question is: is the minister satisfied with the use of money, and what more can one expect to be used to get the company in normal operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2421	I'm very pleased with what we're doing. We are far from in goal, but we are establishing an organisation – we have a board of directors, we have appointed the Executive Director, we are now employing leadership teams around, and there are people employed in many places. But this isn't going to be a big organization that's going to cost a lot of money over time. There I also think it is important to stress that when we have talked about how we establish the company, this government is talking about having a two-digit number of employees, while red-green rapporteurs who wanted the company to do so spoke about getting a three-digit number of employees. Only it shows that today's bourgeois majority has a completely different view of how many people you need to run an organization, compared to what red-green politicians have. There is no doubt that it costs money to establish things, because there are many things that we need to get in place, including. The law that we have. But it is also not free to run the State Road Service. And therefore, the success criterion is when we look back in a few years, what we have of operating costs for the road company versus the Road Administration. What we see now is a slimmer and more efficient organization, simply because it has more defined tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2430	That the minister is satisfied is not surprising. But what this might be substantiating is that you're getting a doubling of the costs, which it was warning against. There is a huge cost of getting this up, and there will be a huge cost of operating. Then I wonder, because you remember the progress party went to elections with a desire for less bureaucracy: is it not that with this proposal you actually get increased bureaucracy, because you get two road companies to operate? What does the Minister think of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2436	Well, the representative is not surprised that we're positive with what we're presenting. Nor am I surprised that the Labour Party is consistently negative. However, I only recall the debate that was in April of this year. When we presented proposals on this road company, the Workers' Party's response, by the then transport policy spokesperson Eirin Sund, was that this would be a roadbonanza, this is frightening. So it would be built too much too fast and too fast. It's a threat I can live well with, because it's our goal to build more roads than what you've laid down before. But then we've been asked many times about this with bureaucracy. I hope when I now answer, that the Workers' Party will take it along, instead of asking the same question over and over again. No, we're not going to duplicate bureaucracy. When we transfer responsibility for e.g. E39 Stavanger-Kristiansand to the road company, there shall not be a project organisation for E39 again in Vegvesenet. Then they can work with something else. You don't have to duplicate anything, you have to transfer responsibility, and then you transfer people and hire new people. But you don't have anyone with the same responsibility in the two organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2445	It brings me to the last question, which should perhaps also be better placed in a possible hearing on this matter, which you did not get to. It goes to the employees. What the Council of State says now, means that there will be more people left in the state road service that can be used for other tasks. Then build one up with more people in the new company, and then there'll be more people in total. The alternative is to take people from Vegvesen to the new company. Then one comes up with my next question, which concerns the employees, which they repeated in the budget hearing as late as before Christmas. They were concerned that someone would transfer the competence from the Road Administration to the new company. Does the Minister share this concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2452	If there is something we see in the Norwegian economy today, there are many people with a lot of skills who unfortunately go unemployed. Thinking that there are only a few people who know how to build a road in this country, and that they have to work either in the Road Service or in the road company, is a concern I don't have. We're going to build a lot more road in the future, and we're going to build a lot more rail. There's going to be more people working in both of these sectors, and I think it's actually possible to recruit them without us being afraid that if one job in the Road Administration, there's one that can't get a job in the road company. That's a lot of good people. We have to make sure that it's work for everyone. So just remind me again that this is something we're going to do to simplify procedures and processes. We're going to bring together the responsibility, we're going to get slimmer organizations. One then has more people who like to stay in Vegvesen, but who lose the project they have today, yes, but we're going to have a lot more projects. What we do then provide is that the Road Service has the capacity to plan more roads. They are already in the process, but they have the capacity to manage more projects, that whole package. We need the people who are in the Road Service, and we need new people in the road company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2459	One thing we can agree on is that it takes too long to plan the way. My concern is that it will now take even longer to plan and build roads. Two parallel organisations shall be set up to compete for the same competence, which shall again compete for funds in the State budget. I have to ask again: how does this harmonise with the government’s objectives of efficiency and red tape? Some of these road projects, e.g. E6 south of Trondheim, is now being split up – parts are to be built by the road company, and parts are to be responsible for the Road Administration. It will create major challenges in order to achieve a comprehensive development. For example, it has been designed that the mass from Corporal's bridge in Vindalsliene should be used in the part for which the road company has been responsible and where the start-up is completely blue. Wouldn't it have been better to see the entire project in the context and let the road company take care of the entire project, so that we had released these uncertainties?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2464	It's a little surprising to get such a question from a representative of a party who put forward a national transport plan where this road was already broken up. There are many sections on the E6, both south and north of Trondheim, there was no plan for the next ten years. Then we say that the whole route goes into this road company, so that we have one responsibility one place, and then all of a sudden it's wrong. What have we done? Well, what we're discussing is Corporal's Bridge. As soon as we took over the government, we allocated extra funds to start planning that way. There was money that was not in the house after the red-green government, which we got in place. Then we see that way we can now start building faster than the road company is established. We say that this road company should not delay any projects, and then we take out that particular parcel, so that the Road Administration gets responsibility and makes progress, but the rest of the distance, where something was in the NTP, but much was not in the NTP, we get under the road company. So we're going to have a more complete expansion than we had before, and we're going to get faster than the red-green ones did.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2471	Then my question is, When can we expect to start the rest of the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2476	One can expect it much faster than what was added to the red-green government, which had not even included part of these sections in the national transport plan. Now this is in the road company. That's also a little bit of the reason why the Workers' Party thought that this is a roadbonanza to which they are skeptical, because suddenly there was a lot more way that someone now has plans to build than what was at stake. So we've said that one of the points of the road company is that they're going to have a professional approach to the seven distances they have, how they organize it as a project, whether they're expanding a lot – 10 miles, 5 miles, 1 mile – how they organize this for OPS and the like. The main thing about the road company is that there are many more professional assessments of how one implements things in the best possible way. What has been the inspiration here is the state company Avinor. The only sector in Norway that does not have a significant maintenance seat is our airports, controlled by Avinor. It is very similar to the model we have now chosen for the road company, that one has professionals who govern within the political framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2485	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2490	I would like to start by saying, so that it is without doubt established, that the Workers' Party is also concerned with the best possible way for the money. That is why we want to organise the road sector in such a way that the community gets the most out of the money, and does not create new bureaucratic organizations that are both involved in abusing and that create more bureaucracy. As I said in the line chord shift, it's already spent 60 million. kr on this establishment. This is not the case, even though both the State Council of Solvik-Olsen, the place and the cooperation parties are trying to say that, by saying no to this new road company, they say no to the efficient and comprehensive development of the transport corridors. By saying no to this new company, they also say that we do not want to use modern methods of main road construction, that it will mean poorer accessibility, higher emissions and reduced safety on the roads. I believe this is a claim that falls on its own unfairness, and the minister has probably not heard about what is our solution during the speech by the representative Toften. We have said that we believe in strengthening the state road system and organising it so that we can achieve both better overall planning and, not least, the development of road sections in Norway. We already said that in our transport plan. We're doing it on individual projects. We have examples of road development contracts in Helgeland, so it is possible to do so, and we believe that it is possible to do so without creating a new road company. We also say that it is possible to choose more total enterprise. It's not like the government's proposal is the only answer, even though those who are in favour of it today think that's the only answer. We also think it is a little premature for the minister to hope with the treatment period. I think he should respect the fact that the Storting should spend a good amount of time on the treatment, because that is not the way we had this case for six months. I appreciate the words of the case rapporteur, that we have gone a long way to get this processed before we take Christmas holidays, and then I find it strange that the Council of State is standing and punishing us from the pulpit that we have had enough time. We haven't had enough time. But for us who want to go against this, it's not the head of this case, we don't need any more time. But the matter itself should have deserved more time and a hearing. I also think the Minister should have respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2501	Now I thought that this should not be a debate about for or against the road company – whether for or against. That's the debate we had last year, when we discussed the establishment of the road company. Then we stayed on for a long time, and that was right. Now it's just the technical part we're dealing with – just so we can separate the issues here. As rapporteur of the case, I may feel that it is important to point out a little difference between the road company and the authority that they are given and transferred from the State Road Administration, because this is what this is all about. We need to be clear and open so that there is room for both companies. There's room for the State Road Service, and there's room for a road company. And then we're going to be aware that the state remains the top owner of both, so it's not about this being a privatisation, which I know someone has used in a debate before. It's the state that owns both the State Road Service and the road company. The third thing I want to point out is that it's voluntary to apply. In fact, I think there are a lot of people working in the State Road Service today who think this is attractive – it's exciting that something new is happening, they can be involved in designing road policy in a whole new way, etc. I hear when I travel around, that there are very many of those who are in the state road system today, who welcome this. They don't feel like a threat, they don't feel like their work is going to go away. It doesn't, because as I said, there's room for both of them. What I would also like to point out is that the difference is, as everyone knows, that the road company has its own portfolio set up, its own time frame around it, its own type of budgeting and financial input, while the very majority of existing roads in this country are still to be at the State Road Service, they are still to be dealt with in NTP, etc. Then, of course, is the wish of the Progress Party and also of the Right that we should be able to consider looking at a longer-term budgeting. But it's a small, strange thought that for eight years while I've been sitting here, we had a majority government, and never did we discuss taking new action, never did we discuss that we should have seen the state road system's ability to think new – it was never on the agenda – but now it happens. And I'm very ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2512	I could not take the floor in this matter when I heard the arguments from the Workers' Party. They claim, among other things: that one will achieve exactly the same results with the way in which the Workers' Party implements things. In that case, two things are nice. One is that they were out in the class fight last April and said that our bet would lead to a roadbonanza, and then it's obvious that this they hadn't laid down themselves. Otherwise, it is a year and a half since the Workers' Party and the Centre asked for an update of the National Transport Plan because there was too much happening at an too fast pace, and they wanted the Stortinget to be more involved. So it's perfectly obvious that we have more ambitions in transportation than the Workers' Party and the Center Party have. What is the solution to the Workers' Party? Well, it's that we're going to increase the appropriations, we're going to throw more money after the Road Service, and then this is going to go so well. However, experience shows that in 2006 it was built 10.7 km of motorway, in 2013 it was built 10.6 km of motorway, and it was during a period when the appropriations in the road sector had doubled, under the red-green ones. Why was it not then built twice as much way? It is simply because the costs have gone right to the weather. At the beginning of the 2000s it cost 82,000 kroner per running metre of four-field motorway, while in 2014 it cost 275 000 kroner per running metre of four-field motorway. It means, at least for my part, that there is a very obvious need to get a new organisation of how to finance and build a road in Norway. I'm very happy that we're now getting New Veier AS in place. I would also like to draw up the message that the minister received from the planners in Vegvesen, who themselves say that this is something quite different than before, as they only worked with one and a parcel. Now it's working at over 20 miles at once. It shows that there has already been a change in the Road Administration, and there is reason to believe that the cost of organizing differently will decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2522	The representative Steffensen hasn't come right after he joined the finance committee, but it's great that you have a lot of commitment. Of course, there is talk about a lot of money in this case, so it is great if you had had a bit of each. Who said what before, I don't know. I've never been behind any roadbonanza. But I've said, on the other hand, that's a strange way of prioritizing projects, where actually 60 pst. priority is given to outside the transport plan in an ordinary way. As far as I remember, the chairman of the transport committee said at the press conference that it was the pleasure of the new company, because then someone didn't have to think about interference from annoying rapporteurs. It could be a thought of how a person really thinks the new company should work. I just want to say to the case rapporteur that it was not we who went up this debate. That is why we allowed this matter to be dealt with in record time in the Committee, in consultation with the other parties. We also agreed in advance that there was no reason for any major debate here today. It was the minister who raised the debate here in the Chamber. I just want to remind him that the matter was brought forward on November 20th. It was referred to in Stortinget on 24 November. Not many days have passed since it was promoted, and it has been through comitology. I think the State Council of Solvik-Olsen should have been a little more humble and satisfied with the way Stortinget has run this matter through quickly. He also knows fairly well that after we got this case, we asked some questions. There aren't many days since we got an answer to those questions. Nevertheless, we chose that this matter should go. I think you should have a little more respect for that. I wanted to say here from the pulpit that we believe that we have gone far. Then we disagree with the choice of solution. We mean we can solve this in a different way. We've also been expressed that way. So we'll see, when this goes to, who was right, and who was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2535	The next on the list of speakers is State Council Jan Tore Sanner. It's like the state councils have fixed places here in the hall. I think it could be Solvik-Olsen – then we'll fix it to the Council of State Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2538	It's important to find a place in life, I understand. Let me say a thousand thanks to the Storting, so that I make it explicitly clear that we are pleased that it has been dealt with so quickly that it gets the decision it gets. I also think it is very exciting that we get a debate, and if the Workers' Party is inspired to participate in it, it is also very nice. But I remember that the things I pointed to in my post were largely a response to the criticism that the Labour Party's representative first addressed in this debate. One does not have to be surprised that there will then be an exchange of words afterwards, but it is good that the Workers' Party engages. What's happening is important. It is important that we give more money. The Ministry of Transport's budget has increased from around 41 billion. SEK in 2013 to over 60 billion. kr in 2016. It bears witness to a bet. The Road Administration's budget on the national road side is over 30 billion for the first time. kr in 2016 – an increase so large that some red-green politicians thought there was irresponsible high growth on the road side. When someone says that we're just following the national transport plan, it's a little weird. I also remind those who believe that the railway is more important than the road, that we actually had to reduce the year's budget for rail after the budget conciliation of nearly 3 billion. kr to come down to the level set by the Workers' Party in the National Transport Plan. So it happens a little bit more than what was planned. Not least, it's about the way we organize the transport sector. The reason why we change the way we organise the road, the railways, the ports and the unloading system – all of this – is that professional advice we get from the outside says that things are not optimally organised today. I had actually believed that the Workers' Party, having run the country for eight years, would have had some concrete proposals, for which they would have preferred not to have a majority in the government, but which they at least took with them in opposition and tried to take in through the Storting, to influence the organisation of public tasks, such as road construction. So we don't hear anything but that they're proud that they got E6 and E16 File Mountain as their own entry in the state budget. But it's exactly the two posts that have made a little bit of a difference, because the Road Service can't freely re-prioritize the money for those projects without going through the Stortinget. All the other things that the Workers' Party itself has taken up in the newspapers are that it wasn't well organized while they crashed. But they haven't come up with any alternative suggestions. Then it's not nice that we get a debate. It would have been very nice if we also got some suggestions from the opposition, so we had something to break against, in addition to a dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2549	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2563	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2568	The background to this law is that the place of residence of the priests has been lifted with effect from 1 September of this year. As a result, the individual pastor has received compensation from the same date. Under current legislation, this compensation would be included as a subsidy to other religious and life-seeking communities. The case suggests that compensation for the salaries of the priests should not be included in the basis for grants to other religious and life-seeking communities. In order to comply with the proposal on the matter, it is necessary to add new text to the two laws which both refer to the same and govern subsidies to other religious and life views. So far on the background of the matter. I would also like to thank the Committee for being positive and agreed to consider the matter with a relatively short period of time, so we will have it adopted and it will apply from 1 January 2016. Although the Committee is divided into this matter, it shows both comments and suggestions in the vote, there is a broad political consensus to continue the principle of equal treatment and the current financial arrangements for the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views, as stated in the Stockholm Church settlement. The Committee also sees that a possible new reform phase after 2017 for the Norwegian Church could have an impact on the financing of other religious and life views. In the light of this, the Joint Committee shall promote the following joint proposals: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a new funding system for the religious and life-view society, in the light of changes in the Norwegian Church and the principle of non-discrimination.’ The members of the Committee from the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left support a minority proposal in the vote. Another minority has a different proposal, which I guess they take care of in their own posts. In addition, a joint committee is behind the proposal for a decision that I quoted. I am in favour of the proposal by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in the vote. With this, I believe that I am done commenting as rapporteur of the case and moving on to party politics. The party of progress is pleased that the duty of living for the priests has ceased. We believe that the housing obligation has expired many years ago. Then I want to be quite clear that the Progress Party is firmly committed to the unity that lies within the agreed church settlement. In the context of the removal of the statutory obligation to live with the priests, an agreement on compensation for the priests was concluded. It is linked to the fact that the State is the employer of the priests, and the compensation is the result of negotiations between the ministry and the civil servants’ organisations of the priests. In addition, compensation for the individual benefit is paid to workers who have changed their working conditions, in this case by the termination of the subsidised housing scheme for benefits. The Progress Party sees that neither the priests nor the Norwegian Church are strengthened because of the compensation paid to the priests. Nor can the Progress Party see that this is a measure that will strengthen the religious activity of the Norwegian Church. In view of these circumstances and the fact that there is a clear delineation of the proposition that only this point is the subject of the proposal, the Progress Party does not consider that the State's obligation to grant an increased grant to other religious and life-view societies as a result of this specific case. The Progress Party is looking forward to the Stortinget getting a case on the funding system in the Norwegian Church and for other religious and life-view societies to be treated. Religion and vision of life have an important place in society and means much too many. It is therefore important for the Progress Party that the government's policy ensures the right to freedom of religion and equal treatment of religious and life-view societies. We believe that this setting helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2615	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2618	This matter is not a matter of discrepancy with regard to the lifting of the obligation to live for a pastor, but of the amendment of the law proposed by the government – on the procedure, process and all doubts and uncertainties created in respect of the principle of non-discrimination. The working party has been critical of the urgency of the matter. With the exception of the Ministry itself, all the hearing bodies consider that the case has gone too fast, that all aspects of the case have not been clarified, that the Stortinget therefore has an inadequate basis for decision, and that the amendment of the law may be contrary to the Basic Law and to human rights. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes it is unfortunate that there was no open consultation in the matter. When right, forward and left writes that ‘there was an overall committee which itself adopted a rapid examination of the case and provided for written consultation by interested parties’; it was in the light of the Committee's suggestion that this was a fairly simple and curative matter. That did not result in correctness. Several members of the Committee tried to put the matter at risk in order to ensure a better review. It didn't work out. That is why we are going to vote against the amendment of the law today, and together with the Central Party and the SV, we are promoting a proposal asking the government to come back with a thorough review of the matter with a view in particular to the principle of non-discrimination, and this proposal has been promoted. As has been said, religious and life-seeking communities, the Church's Employers' Organisation, the Preste Association and the Trade Union in their consultation responses have opposed the bill. They believe – as I said – that is contrary to the Constitution and human rights, while the government believes otherwise. Of course, it is difficult for us to judge who has the right legal interpretation, but we find it strange that the government has not anchored its view in a better way when everyone who has spoken, with the exception of the department, thinks this is a real issue. It must be allowed to ask questions as to why this proposal was not sent at the hearing to central bodies set up to protect human rights and non-discrimination, such as: Centres for Human Rights and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The government takes a comparison with Iceland for income for its sight. The hearing replies sent to the Committee conclude that the comparison is little real, because Iceland does not have the principle of non-discrimination clearly enshrined in the Constitution, and they do not have the same history of non-discrimination of belief and outlook. We do not consider whether the principle of non-discrimination is being undermined, but we are surprised that after 20 years of organised dialogue work on equality of faith and life, the people involved are not involved in the matter in a good way. They themselves believe that the ministry side with the principles it has agreed on and that it acidifies the relationship with minorities. In today's situation, they find this particularly unfortunate, which we agree with them. With regard to the potential economic impact on religious communities, the Ministry justifies the proposal that it would be unreasonable for the compensation for the winding-up of housing to be included in the calculation basis in line with the applicable funding mechanism. The Presbytery Association considers this to be the opposite and justifies the inclusion of wage and salary earners in the current calculation basis today. It also makes the net contribution from the Information Service Fund to the Norwegian Church, including the fund's net contribution to the Service Housing Scheme. Another element: The Ministry writes that the effect is economically neutral overall. The Council of Churches does not agree and writes that the Ministry’s proposal becomes difficult to understand because the Ministry has previously ‘extended the basis of calculation for other religious and life- views by including a calculated net contribution from the Information Society Fund’, which the Preste Association points out. The Church Council further writes: Although the change is considered to be economically neutral for the Norwegian Church, it will not be so for the other religious and life views. They believe that there is a greater level of non-discrimination within the current financial instrument than the government now commits by amending the law. The Ministry itself has written: ‘The Ministry has assessed this in such a way that the relevant laws and the long-term practice of the laws do not allow this part of the government’s budgeted expenditure on the Norwegian Church to be kept out of the subsidy base of other religious and life views. In the event of a change in the law, this must be the case.» Questions about all of this have been asked in the course of the case. We cannot see that we have received clear answers, even though the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left make it this way in their comments. It is good that a unanimous committee should make proposals for a thorough review of the legislative amendment, in particular with a view to the principle of non-discrimination. However, it cannot be understood in any other way than that the Committee considers that the ministry has not sufficiently explained the economic neutrality of the proposed change for the Norwegian Church and other religious communities as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2654	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2657	The rapporteur has made a clear statement on the matter, both in terms of content and background. The priests in the Norwegian Church, as we know, have from old times had places of employment in which they have had the duty and the right to live. The winding-up of the dwelling is enshrined in the Sundvolden Declaration. The scheme was terminated on 1 September 2015 following negotiations with the workers’ organisations of the priests. As a result of that change in the working conditions of the members of the staff, the benefits received compensation from the same date after agreement between the department and the civil servants' organisations. The budgetary impact of this is 77 million. kr for 2016. Compensation is given directly to the priests. And as civil servants, the priests of the Norwegian Church stand in a special position. The position of the pastors is different from that of other religious and life views. We have assumed that the compensation granted in connection with the termination of the residence obligation is not a subsidy for operations and activities in the Norwegian Church, but a compensation to the individual priest. This is why the Ministry is now proposing that the allocation should not be included as part of the calculation basis for state grants to religious and life views outside the Norwegian Church. This appropriation does not represent an economic gain for the Church. During the comitology of the matter, the whole Committee has been concerned with the principle of non-discrimination, which is enshrined in the Basic Law, Section 16. Norway, as referred to above, has committed itself, through international conventions, to the pursuit of economic equality between different religious communities. This is also fixed in the Church settlement of Storting. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a unanimous big-time committee that asks the government to come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a new funding system for religious and life-seem societies, in the light of the changes that the Norwegian Church is currently undergoing, and the principle of non-discrimination. This all the parties seem to agree that there is a need. There have been three main objections in this case: One has been linked to the question of whether the economic aspects of the case are well enough investigated, and whether the case creates precedent. The other has been linked to whether the amendment of the law could be contrary to the Constitution. The third has been related to the time aspect, as part of the Committee's members have later pointed out that there should be better time in the process, as we also heard from the Workers' Party representative. With regard to the economic aspects of the case, I refer to the proposition, which is confirmed as follows: ‘The Ministry assumes that the winding-up of the service and conscript arrangements for the pastors will result in the long-term reduction in the cost of the service buildings, as the number of service buildings decreases. The basis for the calculation of the state contribution to other threat and life views will change accordingly. If the reduction of the Fund's expenditure on the facilities of the services can allow for increases in contributions from the Fund for other ecclesiastical purposes, which is the objective, the increase will normally be included in the contribution bases of other threats and life views.’;» Here, consistency and intention for future grants to both the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies are made clear. As regards the legal issue of the amendment, we in Højre’s Group stress that it has been specifically assessed by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and that the Ministry of Culture has then argued that the draft law does not conflict with either international conventions or the Constitution. Finally, I would just like to remind you that with regard to the time aspect of the matter, the entire committee was aware of the short period of time when the matter came to Stortinget. However, the Committee also agreed that the matter should be dealt with before Christmas. The Committee also agreed that the collection of written consultations was a good procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2692	We are lucky in this country, which has a great diversity of different religious and life views. It's a enrichment, it's valuable both for society and for the individual. It's not least an expression that we have a society where freedom of faith is a high value. This is also evident in the law, through international conventions to which Norway has committed itself, and not least in the Constitution. The principle of equal treatment of faith societies is a fundamental element of the policy of belief and life. I am pleased that this is something that all parties in the committee clearly emphasise in the consideration of this matter. But now the government is proposing to make changes to the law that affect how we deal with the principle of non-discrimination. The proposal is based on the adoption of changes in the law which make it possible for the compensation received by the priests of the Norwegian Church as a result of the termination of the residence obligation to be excluded from the grant basis of other religious communities. The feedback from the hearing bodies has been crystal clear. Norway's Christian Council, the Cooperation Council for Creeding and Living Societies, the Human Ethics Association and various organisations associated with the Norwegian Church are indebted to debt. They refer to the principle of non-discrimination and warn the Storting against adopting the legislative changes proposed by the government. The government points out that the compensation to the priests does not involve a direct strengthening of the business or economy of the Norwegian Church, but it seems unclear whether this will in the long term affect non-discrimination or not. I think we need a fundamental debate on how we deal with the principle of non-discrimination. This is necessary, not least because the Church is in the middle of a comprehensive process of conversion as a result of the Church Agreement in Stortinget. Everything suggests that the Church will become an independent legal entity in 2017, it will become a more independent church with looser ties to the state and a religious community more in line with other religious communities. But despite that, the Norwegian Church will still have a special place in our society. It also has a special anchoring in the Constitution. The Norwegian Church shall be the Church of Norway and shall be entrusted with certain tasks and obligations of which other religious communities are not affected. This creates a need for a fundamental principleal debate. I find it unfortunate that the Ministry of Culture is coming to Stortinget with an urgent need to implement changes to the law as a result of the housing obligation case, with the need for prompt treatment, because the government has taken the legislative amendment to the state budget for 2016. The lifting of the obligation of residence of the priests appears to be a major step in the process, but the decision of the Grand Duchy in this case can set a precedent for later cases and also provide guidance on how to deal with the settlement between the State and the Church. The Christian People's Party wants a thorough review of the funding system and a fundamental debate on how capital and operating resources for the new legal entity The Norwegian Church should be seen in connection with grants to other religious and life views. I am pleased that a joint committee is now asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a case on this. The Christian People's Party holds the principle of non-discrimination high, and we will not vote in favour of the government's proposal to amend the law. We therefore expect the government to come back to Stortinget with a new case with a more fundamental review of the funding system, so that we can discuss this in a more thorough and more detailed way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2711	First, the center party is to cancel the place of residence of the priests. And since the free dwelling has been part of the pay and working conditions of the priests, it is also perfectly true that the loss is compensated by a pay strike. This matter therefore initially looked quite straightforward. The priests were to be compensated with approx. Seventy-seven million. NOK, and it would go up with the loss of the dwelling. But as we went closer to the matter, it became more complex and more inconspicuous. The striking point is whether this amendment will discriminate between the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views in the case of state grants. The fact that the government considers it necessary to amend the law in order to keep the compensation out of the calculation basis for support to other religious and life-view societies shows that the matter is not entirely unproblematic. I take note that the government has been investigated and concluded that the legal issues are not in conflict with international conventions, such as the European Convention on Human Rights or the Constitution § 16, which refers to the non-economic treatment of the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views. When we in the Central Party oppose this proposal, it is because, through questions in the process, we have not received satisfactory answers from the Ministry that this scheme will be economically neutral, as the Ministry claims in the proposition. The consultation note from the government on page 4 states: ‘On the phase-out of the old housing scheme and the corresponding salary compensation of 60 million. crowns actually have this neutral effect, taken together, it is not possible to calculate for that purpose.» One of the unanswered questions is related to what is today considered to be the value of the old housing scheme. Today, the accounted value of the plan in the Information Service Fund for 2014 was 54.3 million. kr. This amount has so far been included in the calculation basis. With the cancellation of the plan, we also have to assume that these millions go out of the calculation basis. The proceeds of the priests' compensation will be 77 million. in 2015-krona. The problem is that the 54.3 million. in 2014 crowns that are currently the value of the housing obligation scheme included in the calculation basis are unlikely to be zeroed out and replaced by the compensation of employees. For many years to come, the OVF will be responsible for housing for the pastors who still want to live in vicarious dwellings. The government says in the proposition: ‘If the reduction of the fund’s expenditure on the premises may provide room for increases in the contribution from the fund to other ecclesiastical purposes, which is the objective, the increase will normally be included in the supplemental basis’. It's very nice, but we don't know what this is going to be like. If the Storting now decides that compensation for the priests should be excluded from the calculation basis for others, other religious and life-view societies could in reality be reduced. The question is therefore not whether the change in the law will be economically neutral for the clergy, but whether it will be economically neutral for the state, including the OVF and other religious and life views. We believe that this question has not been answered well enough to allow the Central Party to vote in favour of the bill. We believe that the government should have had a review of the entire funding system first, and then made changes in line with the Storting's will. Having said that, I am pleased that a unanimous committee has agreed to go in to ask that we get such a case to the Stortinget. The centre party supports the provision of compensation for the loss of the pensioner’s residence, but we cannot accept that the ministry cannot guarantee or more likely what happens with the calculation basis, as the OVF contribution is part of this. Faith is not good enough for us in this context. I think we should note, as others have pointed out, that all the hearing bodies, including bodies and organisations associated with the Norwegian Church, strongly oppose this amendment and believe that it would be contrary to the Basic Law § 16 on equal treatment. I must therefore add that I think it is alarming that the government has not taken into account that the bill would meet with resistance in Stortingen without prior notice of the matter. The government did not take into account the fact that the proposal could be defeated. That that would be a defect of approx. $12 million. kr in the government's budget, don't worry me anything, but it should make the government and the Left very worried. I think it's unwise by the government, and it puts undue pressure on the Storting to press through the law. I hope this way of operating towards Stortinget changes in the future in the light of the great tasks we are going to have in the reform of the Norwegian Church's relationship with the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2750	The changes we are debating today are the follow-up to the lifting of the obligation of priests in the Norwegian Church. This has no direct connection with the fact that Church, we hope, becomes a legal entity of its own in 2017, but the process is an important backbone, because we know that there will be many challenging debates in the future when employer responsibility for the priests and the other statesmen in the Church of Norway are transferred. This applies, for example: both pension obligations and the relation to the information service fund. The left believes it was reasonable for the government to terminate the service and duty arrangement for the priests. From our point of view, it is also quite reasonable that the withdrawal of this scheme is compensated for by wages as a result of negotiations between employers and employees. For the Left, it has been decided that this wage compensation is a promise to the priests as workers, not to the Norwegian Church. It is not a promise that leads to room for increased religious activity in church communities, and the Left has stressed that the vows do not represent any economic gain for the priests or the Norwegian Church. The effects are economically neutral in nature, as the government underlines. The bill has received a good deal of criticism from the belief and life views in the hearing. This includes, among other things: the fact that, when the service and conscript arrangements are terminated, there may be a consequence that the contributions to other trust and life-vision organisations are falling, as the number of service buildings is likely to decrease, and their costs become part of the service base. But here's reason to stress that when the OVF's service building costs go down, the stated goal is that the fund increases the incentive for other church purposes, so that the backbone is almost unchanged. It is serious when the bill is due to be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and other human rights conventions to which Norway is obliged. It is equally serious when it becomes a liability to be contrary to the Constitution. Left takes such claims seriously. It's also our impression that the government has done. As we see it, and as this case has been brought forward, there is little reason to doubt the judgements made by the Justice Department after the hearing, which concludes that neither the Constitution nor the Conventions on Human Rights are broken by this Decision. There is also a reason for the left hand move. Neither is it or was the Left's understanding of the Constitutional Rules that there should be an automatic link between the changes that the Norwegian Church is going to undergo and that there should be substantial and lasting increases in state promises to the community of threats and life views in general. Nevertheless, this case still makes it apparent that there is still some uncertainty about how the state should meet the lack of belief and life views in Norway. This was recorded in the Steelset selection, which delivered its report in January 2013, but after the hearing we have heard little about how this should be monitored. I am therefore pleased that four distinguished representatives from the Left of the former have today submitted a proposal on a holistic policy of trust and life, asking for a big message on this issue. I also point out that the Committee in the configuration of the matter is now debating, in agreement, proposes a decision asking the government to come back to the Storting with a proposal for a new funding system for the community of threats and life views. I think it makes sense to see these matters in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2764	In the middle of a budget time where we negotiate significantly larger sums than this, the Storting stops at this matter with a smaller promise and asks the principle questions. I thought it was a strength for the Storting to do it. The jumping point here is all the ambiguity about this question. This is being carried out so quickly, it's going through so quickly in Stortinget, and we're also looking at the government's proceedings. The Centre for Human Rights, for example, which is our professional body in Norway on human rights issues, has not been consulted, which has also been pointed out by all the different actors who have been in the audience. Everyone in the hearing has made themselves critical of this. One has not contacted the authority in the area of human rights in Norway – one has only stayed in the Law Department on this issue. It's a big weakness. The law department has only shown relations in countries where one has not taken the significant point of assessing human rights, local conditions. Here's a lot of challenges. This case illustrates that we have major problems with the whole funding system. In short, the funding system is based on the freedom of vision that all people have under the Norwegian Constitution and human rights. This means that no one should be discriminated against; everyone should be treated equally. That means that one should also be treated in a non-discriminatory way. In Norway, the Norwegian Church receives money from the State budget. One calculates this as members, and then the communities of trust and life get about as much per member as the Norwegian Church receives per member – ‘so far so good’. So the problem comes in other areas. Errors in the membership register of the Norwegian Church, for example, have no impact on their income, but it has consequences for the economy of the different life-view and threat communities. They're being dragged because of double entries. The Norwegian Church does not need a person number in its membership register – it needs the other faith communities. The decline in membership of the Norwegian Church has no consequences for the Norwegian Church, but it has great consequences for the communities of threats. It is also a general, great challenge to check that those in the register of the Norwegian Church, in fact, are Christians, that they actually know that they are listed there. I have signed myself out of the Church twice, and I am unsure whether I am still standing there. So this case comes up about duty, which one might say has been a hidden advantage in the Norwegian Church, and which has not been part of the basis of calculation. So, the obligations and benefits you had with it were not part of the basis of calculation. But when you get a compensation and you get a number of it, it becomes part of the Norwegian Church's rights, and if you want to keep it out of that foundation when you want to calculate support for the different communities, it's unimaginable. Then you can imagine that this will create precedent. In fact, in the listener's draft, there was a lead that it would create precedent. It was withdrawn. It is possible that the withdrawal has not actually been done, because this case could create precedent. I have not received a clear answer to this. We know that there are other issues in the future – retirement, for example, coming in on a long-term basis. All in all, I believe that everyone is interested in – no matter what we want, if we want to increase public support for religions, for life's sake and faith, or if we want to reduce it – having a proper review of the whole system. There are very few areas of the Norwegian government budget that operate with this type of funding system, where one really doesn't know how much one has actually allowed. It's just a clean estimate. This may be a major increase or a significant decrease in the number of members of individual threat communities. All of this will have consequences beyond the year – one has no control over what this leads to, and we actually don't know today if we have a system that treats everyone the same. It seemed to me that this matter illustrates, and SV is going to oppose the proposal. We are very pleased that the whole committee wants to have a proper review of the system. I'm going to assume that the government also agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2785	With effect from 1 September of this year, the service housing system of the priests has been terminated. The service housing system has been part of the working conditions of the pastors from a far back point of time. Many performers have therefore based on the fact that there will always be a reasonable priced dwelling without a benefit tax with a performance position. And so now the system is closed, and the priests, like other workers, have to take responsibility for their housing situation. In our time, we have to use non-residential means, I believe, to provide a nationwide service. I am convinced that the changes are in favour of the pastoral service as well. I think it's natural and mention this as an introduction, even though the issue being debated is not really about the winding up of the place of residence, as many have pointed out, but about other religious and life-view societies to be compensated because the priests have received this compensation. The Committee was divided into two parts. The majority are not convinced that the Ministry's proposals are sustainable and want a more thorough evaluation in the light of the principle of non-discrimination. The proposal submitted refers to a comprehensive statement by the Ministry of Justice Department. In the view of the Law Department, neither international conventions nor the Constitution Section 16 imply that in this case – and I stress in this case – there is some obligation for the State to compensate for other religious and life views. The law department shows in its reasons that the Norwegian Church has a special status under the law, that the priests are State workers, and that the compensation of the salaries received by the priests has been negotiated between the State and the civil servants' organisations of the priests. The detailed assessment of the legislative department has been incorporated into the proposition in its entirety. I find it difficult to understand that the matter is not well informed. The entire Committee asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for a new funding system for the religious and life-view societies. This request will be followed up. I think that the specific matter under consideration shows that the legislation that we have today on grants to the religious and life-view society needs to be reviewed. No one contests the principle that the State should treat all religious and life-view societies in a non-discriminatory manner. The entire Committee points out that the principle of equal treatment of religious communities is important in a pluralist society. It is when we are going to put this principle into practice that the problem and possible political disagreements emerge. It is a fact that the Norwegian Church is in a special position under the Constitution. It is also the case that the state has made demands on the Norwegian Church by which other religious and life views are not affected. The entire committee stresses that the Norwegian Church is in a special position historically and culturally. It's Norway's people's church. The question is about today's regulated grant schemes for other religious and life-view societies takes into account actual inequalities between the Norwegian Church and the other religious and life-view societies. As mentioned, the Legal Service has come to the conclusion that the principle of non-discrimination is not broken in the matter we are discussing. In all matters of faith and life, the principle of non-discrimination will be the guiding principle. In this specific case, it is my opinion that the principle of equal treatment does not imply compensation for the religious and life-view societies. It is the special position of the Norwegian Church and the position of the priests as workers in the state who justify such a view. However, because today's legislation does not allow such an understanding, we had to propose a change in the law. I believe that there may be reason to raise the issue of today's legislation throughout the field well enough to respond to how the principle of non-discrimination should be applied in our time. The law of the day existed at a different time. I think the way forward in these issues is to see the funding system for the belief and life-view societies in an overall context. We need to look at new proposals for funding systems in the light of both the principle of equal treatment and the special status of the Norwegian Church. I will shortly submit legislative proposals to the Stortinget that establish the Norwegian Church as a legally independent body outside the state. The financing arrangements for the Norwegian Church will not be modified by this legislative reform. The funding arrangements are planned to be included in the work on the subsequent church reform we are aiming for, where the law of the Norwegian Church is to have a framework character. The Norwegian Church will then become further independent, which, in my view, requires changes in the current financing system for the Church. In that case, all questions relating to the financing of the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-seeking communities will be considered in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2811	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2814	The Council of State must have known about this matter for a long time. The special agreement on compensation of pay was concluded between the local parties in February, and knowledge of the removal of the obligation of residence must have been established by the Council of State for a long time. The case is mentioned with two sentences in Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016, and there is nothing to say that it should be followed by a legislative change. The matter was not normally notified to the Committee. It arrived at Stortinget on 10 November, informing them that the matter had to be resolved before Christmas. My questions are, Why didn't the matter come before? Why is this legislative change not mentioned in Prop? 1 S, and does the Council of State really believe that such a timetable is sound in dealing with such a controversial law, about which there is so much disagreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2821	This matter has been at an extensive hearing, and the hearing replies that have come show that there has been a normal hearing and that there has been an opportunity to ask questions. When we promoted this proposal on housing in the revised national budget, it was at least on the basis of the idea that this would be followed up by a legislative proposal. I hear what part of the opposition in Stortinget says, that you feel you've had too little time. I'm not sure if that's the time perspective, that you feel that you haven't had enough time to evaluate it, or if you actually disagree with the problem, which is the basis for saying it. I also hear what is being said by some of the initiators, that the committee said that it was willing to deal with this. That was the basis for our advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2826	The disagreement and controversy here are due to all the hearing bodies that have expressed themselves, with the exception of the ministry, and that is what makes the matter so special. Both the Human-Ethical Association, the Council of Churches and the Preste Association agree that the amendment of the law is contrary to the Constitution and human rights in the light of the principle of non-discrimination, which we have talked about in the past. I guess you've got it all the way. Why have you not had a closer dialogue, and it would not be natural in such a kind of case to ask, for example. The Norwegian Centre for Human Rights and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman on an assessment of this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2833	I have also noticed that many in the hearing replies that came thought this could be contrary to both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why we received an opinion from the Legal Service, and the Legal Service concluded that in this case – I say again: in this case – we did not break the principle of non-discrimination. The law department indicates that the Norwegian Church has a special position under the Constitution and that the priests are employed in the State. The negotiations on compensation concerned the working conditions of the priests as civil servants. I also refer to the Legal Service's assessment of the question, which is fully reflected in the legislative proposal. This is about the seventh and last thing about the priests being state employees. They are employed by the Civil Service Act and have their rights anchored there, and we believe that this does not have any consequences for the other religious and life-view societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2840	I will follow up on the first question raised by Mr Sønsterud, where she asked for an explanation of why Stortinget has had so little time to deal with the matter, despite the fact that the Council of State has known for a long time that this would come. In the response of the Council of State, reference is made to hearings, hearing bodies, etc. I want to be so free that I want to remind you that it is the Stortinge that makes laws in this country. Then I wonder if the Council of State Widvey still believes that there is a reasonable period of time when Stortinget has been given – when it is about about. One month's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2845	I hear what the opposition in the Storting really criticises, that you want more time for these kinds of things. I take note of that and will be very prepared that when the next matter comes – there are several legislative changes coming to spring – you see the need to have more time for it. I take note of this, and I will make sure that it will happen in the future. I believe that this matter really did not need any more time. That's the basis for our presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2850	It seems to me that there is a real savings for the state in the cancellation of the housing obligation, because in the long term the income from the Information Society's fund can be used to finance church purposes other than the operation and maintenance of the nursing homes. These other objectives are currently financed through grants from the State budget. In principle, it will be possible in the long term to reduce the subsidy to the Norwegian Church as a result of this change. It also means reduced grants to other religious and life views. The state has, of course, compensated this by compensation for the salaries of the clergy, but this compensation will not benefit other religious communities. Although this might be a zero sum game for the Norwegian Church, it doesn't seem to be a zero sum game for the other religious communities in the long term. Can the Council of State guarantee that the proposed legislative changes will not imply an account where the other religious and life-view societies will in the long run be negative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2859	If we look at the proposed amendment of the law that exists, it is explicitly stated that this is ‘as a consequence of the loss of the service building and the obligation of the priests in the Church of Norway’, and that this ‘should not be taken into account in the basis of reference after the first paragraph’. As I also said in my post: This applies very, very clearly to this one matter. When this was sent to the hearing, we also sent similar cases. So I have not proposed this because it created a doubt as to whether it was also on a general basis. Therefore, this obligation applies to the dwelling. If such is the case which the representative mentions in respect of the Information Society Fund, OVF’s contribution shall continue to be included in the future in respect of the calculation basis for grants to the other religious and life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2867	A little heart attack from Wøien's representative: The steel-set committee aimed at reviewing the country's belief and life-view policies and promoting related proposals. They also made proposals for schemes for different types of grants, and they presented their recommendation in January 2013. It is also a small greeting to the representative proposal from the Left that was presented today. As I see it, it has been a very good time to prepare a good case for the Storting on financing arrangements when the loss of living was also included in the cooperation statements of the Right and Advance Party. I wonder if the Council of State agrees that there has been enough time to review the funding system and to present it to the Storting in a good way, in the light of the post-war situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2876	I repeat that the proposal under consideration today is only as a result of the lifting of the residence obligation. There are no other consequences in terms of the calculation basis that can be included in the future when calculating the grant to the other belief and life-view societies. As the representative also knows, as I said in my contribution, we are primarily going to promote a legislative proposal for spring – in January/February – on a administrative reform to establish the Church as a legal entity. In addition, in the new year, we will be sending out to the hearing several of the elements that were included in the setting of the Steel Kit Committee, such as: depends on how many members it should be in a religious community. It is a much larger case, which requires a comprehensive consultation before it is presented to the Stortinget. This case only applies to the dwelling, and I believe that there is a basis for it being treated today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2885	This applies to the suspension of obligations and compensation and the transfer it resulted in. That's one thing. And then one might think there'll be more things coming in time. Let's just take one question attached to it: pension obligations, when that time comes, will it be part of the calculation basis or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2890	Following the changes we are making in the law today, one cannot take as a natural consequence that pension obligations are to be taken out of the calculation basis. The amendment we are making today only applies to the housing obligation and to the compensation given. So I said we'll come back to Stortinget with suggestions. In particular, the 2017 budget must include both pension liabilities and any equity to be transferred to the Church when the Church becomes its own legal entity. There will be a basis for having a discussion about later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2897	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2902	I felt the need to take the word again because there is a great deal of uncertainty in this matter. Because there is so much uncertainty, I wish we could get some clear answers from the Council of State during this debate, but I felt enough that I did not get the clear answer I wanted to get on my question in the lines. It is okay that this case only concerns compensation in connection with the removal of the obligation to live, and not other matters than that. It is also a good thing that the OVF’s net contribution is still to be included in the grant basis for other religious and life-seeking communities, when this contribution can subsequently be used for things other than the operation and maintenance of service dwellings. But this net contribution to the Church is already included in the grant basis for other religious and life-seeking societies today. Today, both the OVF contribution and grants given over the State budget to the Church are included in the calculation basis. However, when the OVF contribution can in the long term replace parts of the grant granted above the State budget, the overall calculation basis will be reduced. I can't understand it any other way than that. My question to the Council of State in the row was whether she could guarantee that this does not involve an account that will in the long run go in minus for other religious and life-view societies. For me, there is still a lot of uncertainty about this, and I hope that I can get an answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2911	It is quite right that contributions from the OVF are already included in the calculation basis for the grants given to the different religious and life views, and it will do so in the future, as I said. It's speculative to think that this is going to result in budgets being cut. I don't think there's any basis for commenting on that. This case, i.e. a change in the law, applies only to the place of residence and to the compensation for it, and that there should be no basis for this for the other religious and life-view societies. I would like to repeat once again that the priests have been State employees and, as of 1 January 2017, they will transfer 1,600 employees who are currently paid by the State to their own legal entity. We come to Stortinget during January/February with a proposal for an amendment to the law, among other things. so that the Church may establish its own legal entity which may be an employer and have the opportunity to follow up these matters. On the question of how to look at the entire financial instrument in the future: From 1 January 2017, there will be a framework funding which, when adopted by the Stortinget, will be transferred to the Norwegian Church. Then, in the future, there will be a need to look at the funding system as a whole. There's also a joint committee that asked us to do. There will be a need to do that. Some of the questions may be addressed in the next reform phase, which will come a little later, in good time after 2017. I repeat that there are many questions that still need to be clarified. Among other things, several representatives have indicated that there may be a need to also look at how the calculation basis is done. Is it natural that you also want to use the calculation model that you have today, or could there be a need to look at another calculation model? We will later send out a proposal for this at the hearing, so that it will also have a thorough consultation process, and then come back to the Stortinge with proposals for amendments. It is also the case that today, for example, a community of people with a view to life. has a requirement of 500 members in order to receive public support, while at present there is no requirement for the number of members of religious communities to receive public support. There are some things that, among other things. Steelset selection took up. There are also other things that the Steelset Committee took up in its setting, which it would then be natural to promote in such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2924	Now I'm taking the word as a response to the last article. It's about how State Council Widvey puts it in Stortinget. What was now said was that the employer’s responsibility for the benefits is to be transferred from the State to a legal entity of its own in 2017. It's not adopted by the Storting. That's not sure all the parties are going to believe exactly what the Council of State says is going to happen in January 2017. I have to say that I react in that way to mention matters that have not been presented in the Stortinget and that have not been dealt with in the Stortinget, and the way in which the Stortinget is generally dealt with both in this matter that we are dealing with now, and also in how it is notified of how future policies should be. Of course, the right can mean it and have its own legal entity. Other parties can do that, too. But that a state council says that that's how it's going to be in a year's time, without it being presented as a matter and without all the parties having flagged their position, I have to say that I'm responding to, and I need to say that from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2931	As I have said in most of the speeches I have had, this is a proposal that we are going to come to Stortinget in January/February, as a natural follow-up to the church settlement – the distinction between state and church. We have had the ambition to do so from 1 January 2017. There are a number of things that need to be proposed in this context, including: one of the issues that are being considered and on which we are going to propose. There has been a broad consultation, and there has been a broad uproar, not least from all ecclesiastical bodies. That this should be done will be promoted through a bill coming to Stortinget in January/February, as I have said, and then the Stortinget and all the parties will have ample opportunity to express their views on it. But that is what our proposal is. It has been at a wide consultation, and is a follow-up to the church settlement – a final distinction between state and church. So the Storting will hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e2936	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. Case No. 9–20 concerns the second processing of legal acts. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3063	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3069	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3486	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Geir Pollestad, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 5 and 6, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 7, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 8, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 9 and 10, by Une Aina Bastholm, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 11–16, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 10. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, in its work on the bioeconomy strategy, to consider setting up its own bio-based business fund. The Fund shall promote bio-based business by ensuring state risk capital in the most demanding development phase, in cooperation with private actors.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3524	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to establish a bio-prospecting programme under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The programme shall identify the chemical and genetic components of biological organisms in the Norwegian ecosystem. Knowledge shall contribute to the necessary protection and value creation. The data shall be made transparent and accessible to bio-based value creation actors.’;» The President has reason to believe that the Socialist Left Party will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3543	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–16, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide new schemes to stimulate organic farming.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own Animal Inspectorate.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government of the revised national budget to provide a stepping-up of regional environmental programmes. [[RMP]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how investment grants can be actively used to ensure available soil and increase self-produced feed.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for untapped mechanisms to ensure soil welfare and good agronomy so that soil resources are preserved, and to investigate the establishment of an Earth Welfare Fund.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the measures in the report: Women, Democracy and Participation, NBS 2015.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3588	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the law on good trade practices.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3606	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that new regulations on grants for seafarers’ employment apply from the first semester of 2016 and amendments to regulations regulating the area of operation enter into force from 1 January 2016.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3623	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote concrete instruments for increasing the value creation of the bioeconomy in the notified bioeconomy strategy.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop further arrears from selling its properties to Statskog SF.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3647	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the Board of Directors.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e3666	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change the name of the Food and Veterinary Authority.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to explore the possibilities of a State loan guarantee scheme for the mainland industry, on a GIEC template.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to continue the cooperation agreements of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with non-governmental organisations at the same time as in the past. [[three years]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e6906	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the A, Framework Area 9, XIII, point 4. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 83 representatives had voted in favour of the vote and 11 representatives had voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e6915	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e6920	Since several votes are not registered, we will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e6933	The position of the Committee shall be weighted in the manner set out in Annex A, Box 9, XV. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e6947	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the A, Framework Area 9, XVI.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e6957	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of C, Framework Area 11, VI. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e6971	It is votered over the rest of A, Framework Area 9, B, Framework Area 10, and C, Framework Area 11. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e8613	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Aasrud, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 4 and 5, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Four and five from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e8710	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on social security is amended as follows: the second and third paragraphs of Section 4-10 shall be replaced by the following: the extended waiting time runs from the date of application for social security benefits and shall be fixed at: (a) the first eight weeks of the first subparagraph (a), (b) the first twelve weeks of the first subparagraph (b), (c) or (d), (c) the first 12 weeks if the conditions referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph have occurred twice within the last 12 months, (d) the first six months if the conditions referred to in points (b), (c) or (d) of the first subparagraph have occurred twice within the last 12 months and the conditions referred to in the first subparagraph or in paragraphs 4 to 20 have occurred three times within the last 12 months.» Proposal No. 2 reads: 'Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e9225	It is contested by the Committee's suspension to the fourth paragraph of Section VI of Section 3-2, second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 3-2, second and third paragraphs of Section 4-10 and the second paragraph of Section 12-13. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e9240	There is a vote on the Committee's suspension to the third paragraph of Section VI of Section 4-20 and the fifth paragraph of Section 4-20. The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e9254	There is a vote on the Committee's position on Section VI of Section 12-15. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e9268	The Committee is called upon to give its opinion on the suspension of Section VII (3), first, second and third paragraphs, Section 5(b) and the first paragraph of Section 12. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e9282	It goes over the rest of the Roman numerals I even X. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for § 4-5 new third paragraph. The Centre Party has notified subsidiary aid to X. The President has reason to believe that the rest of the Roman numerals then become unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e9298	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Is it, then, that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against? - It's shaking your head. It interprets the President so that no one will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e9311	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11150	The Labour Party and the Central Party, and the President has reason to adopt also the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens, will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11163	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has reason to believe that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11177	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11185	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and Left proposal No. 2, from Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a thorough review of the amendment proposal in Prop. 12 L with a view in particular to the principle of equal treatment.’ [[2015-2016]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11211	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 13 June 1969 No. 25 on trust societies and others, the new third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 19 shall be replaced by the following: Licensings that come as a result of the loss of the service housing and consecration arrangements of the priests in the Norwegian Church shall not be included in the base of subscription after the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11249	Since the bill of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left was passed, it is therefore voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President makes it clear that this too is going to be a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11263	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11285	Case No. 9 up to and including 20 are the second reading of legislative acts and apply to legislative acts 13 through 24. There are no comments, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-11.ana.ud2600e11300	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
