ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e37	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Annelise Høegh has passed away, 66 years old. She was born in Oslo on 26 July 1948 and graduated from Artium in 1967. In 1976 she became a cand.philol. with history major at the University of Oslo. During her studies, she became politically involved in the Conservative Student Association, among other things. Chairman of the Student Society. From 1976 she was a member of the Høres political council and was a central figure when the Høres feminist group in the late 1970s launched its debate on ‘the link between women's liberation and liberal conservative ideas’. She was elected alternate to the Stortinget from Oslo at the 1977 elections. At the 1981 elections she was elected as the first alternate and moved up to a permanent meeting representative when Kåre Willoch became Prime Minister. This was the beginning of the whole 20 years at Stortinget. Annelise Höegh was a member of the Social Committee for a total of 16 years and was one of the leading speakers in health and social policy. She was the head of the Consumer and Administrative Committee for three years and was a member of the Foreign and Constitutional Committee for a period of time. She participated in the Council of Europe for several years and was twice delegated to the UN General Assembly. She was a member of the Group Board for many years, and in the years 1989–1990 she was a Vice-Chairman of the Group. Annelise Höegh left the Storting in the fall of 2001, but it was not at all the end of her engagement. She was national auditor for two periods from 2002 and vice-leader of the Riksrevision in the years 2002–2005. Since 2007, she has been a member of Oslo City Council, among others. as the fractional leader of the Committee on Transport and the Environment and Vice-Chairman of the Urban Steering Group. She has also been a member of the board of directors of the Rikshospitalet and a member of the board of directors of such different companies as Norsk Luftambulanssen and Oslo-Filharmonien. In 2006 she became Secretary General of the Norwegian Epilepsy Association. By her death, she was director of the Center for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities. In addition to health and social policy, Annelise Hoegh will be remembered in particular for his commitment as a broad-based women’s politician, among others. in the debate on self-determined abortion, the Partnership Act, biotechnology and artificial fertilisation. Through her efforts, she made invaluable contributions to current policies in a number of areas. At Stortinget, Annelise Höegh will be remembered as a eloquent, reflective and raw colleague, across all party divisions. We thank Annelise Höegh for her efforts at the Storting and brighten the peace of her memory. Former prime minister Gerd Kirste is dead, 94 years old. Gerd Kirste was born on 10 June 1918 in Bærum. After graduating from artium and completing a course of study in higher education, she was employed at Lilleborg in the first years of the war. After a few years, she left work to care for the family. Throughout her political career, she used the professional title ‘housewife’, but her business was far beyond the narrow family sphere. She became politically engaged early and was a member of the local government in Bærum from 1960 to 1975. She was a member of the Presidency for two periods and an alternate for the rest of the time. In addition to municipal government and chairmanship, Gerd Kirste held a number of other important municipal offices, including the local government. as chairman of the social board and vice-president of the school board. Gerd Kirste was a member of Akershus County for ten years from 1965, the last four years also a member of the County Committee. She also had a number of responsibilities in state policy, including: as Chairman of the Hospital Study. Gerd Kirste was alternate to Stortinget from 1965 to 1969 and 1969 to 1973 and was elected as a representative at the 1973 elections. She sat on the Stortinget for two periods, first as a member of the Judicial Committee, then as a member of the Social Committee. In this committee, she was the Right fractional leader and thus the party's foremost social policy spokesperson. Although social policy and health policy were among her main subject areas, both locally and nationally, Gerd Kirste was a versatile politician who distinguished himself in several areas. She never forgot that she represented Bærum and Akershus and engaged in small and big matters of interest to her voters. She took an active part in the current debates on gender equality and environmental policy and was not least concerned with European policy, among other things. as a member of the Executive Board of the Women’s Organization for Conservative and Christian Democratic Parties, European Women’s Union. Gerd Kirste's active activities in society lasted a long time after her time at Stortinget. She was, among other things, Member of the National Tax Board and the National Tax Board, Chairman of the Verification Committee for Medical-Genetic Service Functions and Chairman of the Air Noise Committee for Fornebu. She also continued her efforts in the Right and was among others. Head of the Landsförbund of the then Right-Repensionists and member of the Right-Central Government. We remember Gerd Kirste for her efforts at the Stortinget and brighten the peace of her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e77	The representative, Eirin Sund, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e80	I want, on behalf of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Ingvild Kjerkhol, Magne Rommetveit, Sverre Myrli and myself to propose to join the route-ATK on particularly unfortunate routes and in longer tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e85	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e88	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal to prioritize public transport and bicycles in front of capacity-enhancing road projects in the metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e93	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e96	I have the honour, on behalf of Ola Elvestuen, Ketil Kjenseth, to present myself with a proposal for a representative on the increased development of bicycle infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e102	While the bicycling representatives may come to an end in the course of the debate, the proposal for a representative will be dealt with in a regulatory manner, in the same way as the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e116	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e123	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for its work. The bill is about changes to the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. It allows municipalities to establish scooter loops for pleasure driving, with some limitations. It is not possible to drive in protected areas or proposed protected areas — except where this is already established in North Troms and Finnmark, where there is no restriction — in wild areas and in areas protected by the Cultural Memory Act. It is also specified that it does not apply in Oslomarka, where the Marka Act is the leader. And it takes a landowner's consent to establish snowmobile loops. Reasonable owners shall be able to say no or limit scooter loops. The government also proposes a change in the mountain law, allowing mountain rulers to say no or limit snowmobile loops in the general government. The Government's proposal specifies that the procedures in the municipalities are to comply with the Motor Trade Act, but that with regard to the rules for consultation and publication, you must comply with the Planning and Building Act. Specific provisions on the right of appeal are also provided for. For 14 years we have tried snowmobile runs for pleasure driving in nine municipalities. The government, when it acceded, proposed a general extension of this possibility for municipalities that wanted to establish scooter loops for pleasure driving. This proposal, however, was drawn last year in the middle of a discussion in this Chamber by a document 8 from Terje Aasland and myself that we should not go further with the experiment. The government has now come back with a change in the law to allow municipalities to establish such scooter loops. From the left side, we see no reason to make a change in the law. We believe that the law, as it works today, is good enough, and that the starting point of the law must be followed – that more scooter loops should be banned. We believe that the basis of the case presented by the government is not good enough. It has not been well enough to determine how much increased scooter racing will lead to, or what consequences it will have for, the natural diversity. Nor have the experience from Sweden or the nine experimental municipalities been adequately assessed in the proposal. We also believe that in terms of the purpose of the law itself, that snowmobile runs and runs should initially be banned in the field, no assessment has been made of how this amendment will affect the very purpose of the law. That is why we propose that this law and the matter be sent back to the government – that is our primary position. Nor has there been an investigation under the Basic Law § 112 and the requirements for assessments that lie there. In this way, this case can give an unfortunate precedent, as this is the first major issue we have that affects the natural diversity after we had reviewed the Constitution last year in Stortinget. However, when this proposal to return the law has not received a majority in the committee, we have been constructive. We have had suggestions to limit access by also omitting larger, coherent areas for winter outdoor life – there can be no scooter loops. We also believe that unbroken roads should be used, that there must be a specific reason to go beyond that. And we have proposed to prescribe that the Ministry of Climate and Environment be given authority to stop or set a ceiling for the scope of new loops for the whole or part of the country where there is a major problem, both where the municipalities go out and grant too many permits and where multiple scooter loops give more illegal scooter rides. This shall have a majority within the Committee. I want to point out that if it doesn't get a majority here, the Left will vote against the whole bill change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e138	On a day like this, it may be necessary to recall that the law on motor travel in the field was established in due course as a result of the need to regulate the movement in the interests of nature and outdoor life. The working party believes that this should continue to be the main intention of the law, and that the use of snowmobiles should primarily be limited to generally accepted utility purposes. Now, the government will properly have a majority to introduce local government for the use of snowmobiles for pleasure driving. The working party believes that the consequences for natural diversity, outdoor life and public health are too great to allow for a public access to pleasure driving with snowmobiles. Granting local authorities the power to provide general access to pleasure driving will lead to a significant increase in access to the use of Norwegian scooters, which will lead to increased traffic, increased noise and increased congestion in the outland. In Norway, we have a long tradition of winter outdoor life, and the interest in outdoor life is growing. The opportunity to experience quiet nature is among the main causes of the interest of the North in the operation of outdoor activities. Practicing outdoor outdoors in natural areas without noise is a common good that is important to take care of. Fun rides with snowmobiles in the outfield are, in my view, not compatible with outdoor life, traditional nature experience and natural diversity. The Workers' Party believes that empowering municipalities to establish loops near existing road networks and unbroken snow-covered forest roads will be a balanced solution with both local self-government, opportunities to use snowmobiles for industry and tourism, as well as the consideration of outdoor and traditional nature experiences. In such loops, it can be, among other things, permit exploitation as part of the off-road industry under specified conditions. In particular, if this rule is to be waived, it must be justified. Specific reasons may be larger districts with a low population density, as long as the justification does not violate the principles of the law. The loops shall not be harmful or detrimental to open-air and clean-up activities or to the detriment of specific species or natural habitats and shall not require off-road operations. Motor travel always creates a lot of discussion. Also in the Working Party there is often a high temperature because there is a great commitment around the matter across the country. We believe that we have put ourselves on a balanced line that takes account of different considerations. We are aware that our line will not be implemented by the decisions taken here today, and I deeply regret that, but that is how democracy works. But when it is said that the Workers' Party expects the Constitution § 112 and the Environmental Information Act to be used as the basis for a broad knowledge acquisition and investigation of the environmental consequences before a new motor vehicle traffic law enters into force. The right of citizens to know about the state of the natural environment and the effects of planned and implemented interventions in nature must be safeguarded before local authorities can be authorised to determine snowmobile loops.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e151	It's a special day for me. I come from a municipality that has been legally recreational for almost 14 years. I think it was in the winter of 2008 that I, as rapporteur, was visited by the Energy and Environment Committee. They came to my beautiful Sulitjelma on an inspection to see how we had organized motor travel and how it could be done. I got the impression that the committee was satisfied. We interpreted the message so that there would be changes in the motor trade law in a short time. In the municipality we started to look at our plans. How could we regulate even more carefully to avoid conflicts? We received enquiries – several wanted to start with winter tourism. It was relatively good activity. 2008 has become 2015, and finally it seems that something is happening in this case. As a resident outside the capital, it is with a little wonder I record how the debate on this matter has gone. It is argued that now all nature in Norway will be exposed to noise. It will not be possible to move in Winter-Norway without being exposed to scooters, and not least the proposal will go beyond almost all public health work. When I hear the arguments about public health, I don't understand anything. My home municipality has public health high on its agenda. The municipality has been actively working for this for several years – despite the fact that we have a scooter loop. The municipality even received a price for its work for public health. In relation to the argument used in this case, we should have been strictly deducted from the price and put in the shame hook! I'm not going to figure out how we made it possible to achieve the best possible public health with activity for our citizens, how, through planning work in the community, we facilitated physical activity, free use of sports facilities for our children, and how we activated the entire municipality to actually get out, and also how we got those who were inactive to get out – even though they might have to use snowmobiles. With all possible respect – it is well possible to do good public health work while having the opportunity to take a trip on scooters. So to the next slightly incomprehensible argument: it is claimed that there will be irresponsible scooter policy with recreational driving, and that outland scooters are not compatible with traditional nature experience and nature diversity. The right has long traditions to preserve Norwegian nature. We're still going to be a guarantor that it's going to be possible to experience our nature and cultivate outdoors in this country, even for those who want to do it in total silence. Had this bill been a total release of snowmobiles, we would of course have opposed the proposal. The bill sets many limits on where driving is not allowed. As I said, there's no release. There are prohibitions in protected areas, in planned protected areas, in national wild fauna and flora and in other vulnerable natural areas. Outdoors and natural diversity shall be taken into account, domestic sanitation is a major influence, and nature intervention is prohibited, etc. The framework for the authorisation of openings is strict and, in the view of the Right, they are well-founded. The right acknowledges that Norway is a diverse country, and we have faith in local democracy. We assume that our country has room for both those who want to enjoy quiet nature and those who want to run snowmobiles. We believe that trust leaders in the municipalities are able to regulate this. Here there is a clear distinction between the Workers' Party, which has only faith in government governance and state regulation, and the Right, which has faith in local democracy. We simply believe that those who live and work around the country will be able to manage their areas in the best possible way. It is basically about the livelihoods of the districts. What this really is about is very well described by another rapporteur in a sample municipality. He sums it up this way: the motor travel plan is divided into A-zones, where motor travel is prohibited, and B-zones, where one can facilitate fixed runs. 70 pst. the area of the municipality is ‘A’ zones. The loops may be 4 metres wide for safe traffic and preparation. If we add a 100 meter noise zone to each side, a total use of the rennet is going to be 2.5 pst. of the area of the municipality, even if we have a scooter loop of 30 miles. We have a lot of evidence that scooter runners create well-being and have helped people move here. It is positive to recruit people for different positions both in the municipality and in the business community. State forest has increased the sale of fishing licenses by several hundred percent during the trial period. The problem is that there are still others who define what promotes well-being in us. It is therefore sad to experience that after almost 50 years of regulation of scooters in the municipalities, and with the results we document, our experiences are not at all emphasized. Why should it continue to be like this? If everything goes according to plan, in this matter it will soon be possible for this rapporteur to gain his experience and make loops for his citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e179	Will the representative address the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party and the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e187	The representative of Odd Henriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e190	This is a good day for all those living in the districts of Norway, and especially for those municipalities that have areas and good conditions for the use of snowmobiles. In particular, I would like to thank the representative of Marit Arnstad and the Central Party for a good and tidy cooperation in the design of the law. The law is about transferring some power from the department and county councillors to the municipalities so that municipalities themselves can plan their way and scooter driving according to strict national guidelines. It is a paradox that parties such as the Workers' Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party are of the opinion that municipalities should be responsible for the care of the elderly, the spatial plan, the organization of the cabin, the construction of houses, the industrial area and the construction of roads, but scooter runs, on the other hand, the same municipalities do not have the competence to do from A to Å. This is a paradox, for we know that almost 40 rapporteurs in the Labour Party wanted a new scooter law. Despite this, the Labour Party on Stortinget is opposed. We do not have much faith in our own rapporteurs in that party. If you read the comments, the Workers' Party also wants to send the law back to new investigations. They want to train the case, just as they put and trained the scooter case from 2005 to 2013. This violates the Constitution, claims the Workers' Party in its comments – we need more investigation. I would like to remind you that we have had a scooter ride in Nord-Troms and Finnmark for 30 years. The other sample municipalities have had the scheme since 2000. The matter has been resolved more than well enough, and it is good that we have a government that shows the power of action. I know what work is being done in the municipalities in the north that today has been running. There is a large and nine-time work being done at the start of the cycle, during the season and at the extension of the season. Here all concerns of the reindeer industry are clarified, which loops may be open, which loops are for obstacles, consideration of vulnerable areas, flora, fauna, consideration of migratory birds such as short-haul and grey goose — at all a formidable work. It is amazing that the Workers' Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party do not understand the world of reality in the municipalities of Norway, because the work being done is very good. It is good that we have a government that is of the opinion that the wit is fairly well spread across the whole country. I also see that representatives from the Workers' Party are out in the newspapers in Finnmark and criticise the government for the new law. I'll say it like this, at maybe a little bit good «finnmarkish»: «Keep up the good work.» It's not a mouth in Nord-Troms and Finnmark that agrees with you, so just keep doing a good job. This is a good law. It is balanced in all the different considerations that need to be taken. This is not a release, as many have claimed, but a transfer of some power from the state and statesmen to the municipalities. For Finnmark, the law will give municipalities the opportunity to allow a little more business, which is good. The law will also allow for running from canals that cross iced water to land to set up a reasonable camp when families are on their way to enjoy the outdoors. This is something that very many people have been asking for for a long time. Furthermore, the law has been reinforced by stricter rules on the labelling of loops and on the training of new scooter drivers. We're going to get a good and balanced law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e207	To experience nature through outdoor life I must say is different from all other experiences I have. When I'm on the mountain – on the cabin – I feel that calm is sinking, it gives me a great calm. In the past, the work of everyday life often involved contact with nature through hunting, fishing, harvesting and farming. Pulling into nature just for the sake of experience can be traced back to the middle of the 1800s. Free nature and popular culture became elements of the bourgeois ideal of formation and subsequently a symbol of national identity and freedom. Peter Christen Asbjørnsen so said about his relationship with the outdoors: "Whenever the world opposes me, and it seldom fails to do so, I have always found myself to use open-air travel and physical stress as a damper to my Smurf Anxiety and sorrow." And Håvamål's old natural myth and Henrik Ibsen's «On the Wedges» describe both nature in different ways. The content of outdoor life has changed over time, but survival skills and natural experiences remain two important components of today’s outdoor life. I suppose I can agree that outdoor life and a close relationship with nature are close up to the people's eschela. We also look at the resistance when people are asked what they think about increasing motor travel in nature. According to the Tourist Association, many different polls have been made on people's attitudes to increased motor travel in nature in recent years. The opposition is in a clear majority in all the various studies done for the Environment Directorate, the Nations and Norwegian Free Air Life in the last three years. Depending on how the question is asked, the no-percentage varies between 57 pst. and 75 pst. The only exception is polls ordered by the Association of Snowmobile Importers and the Joint Council of Snowmobile Clubs, which showed that 43 pst. was for and 32 pst. against. The interest in outdoor life is increasing in the Norwegian population, and studies show that the opportunity to experience tranquillity and tranquillity is among the most important causes of the North’s interest in outdoor life. Will the government's proposal to open up more snowmobile driving destroy this? I think it is absolutely vital and important to ask that particular question. Perhaps the strangest thing in this case is that the government has not investigated the consequences of the proposed law. The consequences of the proposal are not known. For example, the proposition contains: no estimate of the increase in scooter traffic and the potential increase in the size of new loops. The same applies to the calculation of the impact of the proposal on nature, outdoor life, public health or local business. Why do you have such a hurry? Why could the consequences not be properly investigated so as to know what the consequences of the proposal would have? Knowledge is rarely dangerous, nor in this case. We believe that with the government's proposal, snowmobile traffic will increase considerably. It also admits the government in the proposal. Experience from experimental municipalities and research, including: from NINA and Vista Analysis, concludes that there is a major conflict between increased snowmobile traffic and the need for a precise outdoor, nature and environment. We believe the possibility of experiencing nature without disturbing noise is a common good of high value. We don't want to put silence, well-being and good natural experiences into play. We believe it is our responsibility to take care of this. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will vote against the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e231	The draft law we are discussing today provides for access for Norwegian municipalities to decide whether or not to establish loops in their municipality for leisure driving by snowmobiles. This case does not apply to driving rough over white areas. This does not apply to the release of snowmobiles in Norwegian nature. It does not apply to opening snowmobiles in protected areas, national parks or vulnerable natural areas. It does not apply to access to snowmobiles in urban areas or in attractive open-air areas. This issue concerns strengthening local democracy, local maritime governance in land matters, a good balance between local democracy and national frameworks and a recognition that Norway is a diverse country, with different opportunities for this type of experience. The proposal for a law provides the main framework for loops and for the treatment process of municipalities. These runs may only be determined by local government or other elected bodies. The routes shall be identified in their own maps and shown in the map of the municipality's spatial plan, and the municipalities shall ensure the labelling and information of the loops. The loops shall not be placed in protection areas, not in proposed protection areas, not in national parks. The loops shall not cause significant damage or disadvantage to reindeer operations or require off-road operations. In fixing the loops, municipalities shall pay particular attention to noise and other handicaps to outdoor life, and municipalities shall also take into account natural diversity, residential and cabin areas, cultural memories and the cultural environment. Nor can the municipalities take decisions on snowmobile runs over a property until the landowner has agreed, and the municipality’s decision on snowmobile runs may be appealed to the County Council by a number of interested stakeholders. I noticed that some people believe that this is a release. It's not, of course, but it's a transfer of authority from state and directorate to local democracy. Some have also pointed out that we have many accidents with scooters in Norway. That's unfortunately correct. In 2013, with the ban on driving, Norway had nine fatal accidents, while Sweden, which has long had access to recreational driving, had six accidents. Typical accidents in Norway are snow slides and out-of-travel or down-travel, and there are accidents that are most often unheard of in a fixed loop. Among other things, because it is important to bring down the accident figures, the bill also provides for a substantial increase in control of scooter driving. The State’s nature oversight shall monitor whether it is being operated outside the loops and shall also be allowed to charge a fee. In the setting, underline, for example, The right, the Progress Party and the Central Party require that the police also have a central role in the supervisory work, that the SNO and the police need to complement each other, and that one avoids the creation of parallel organisations for the supervision that should and must be carried out. In the course of the Committee's proceedings, there is also a majority in favour of allowing municipalities to authorise snowmobile racing during winter-time in the field of land-use. This could be done, for example, by: for the operation of rental cabins and tourist and tourist industries, and municipalities are also given the possibility to allow the use of snowmobiles during winter-time for the supervision of jersey booths. The centre party believes it is positive that one in this way also extends the possibility of running a scooter. The centre party believes that local democracy is well suited to the management of local resources and to balance land use with natural management. Norway is a country of great variation. It is said that management that can address different needs and where local knowledge and adaptation are taken into account is important. The centre party has full confidence that the municipalities will manage such legislation in a good way. In this context, let me also refer to the experience of the municipality of Vinje, which has been part of the pilot project with local snowmobile management for many years. SV rapporteur Arne Vinje says: ‘This system has been very successful, because it reduced or almost eliminates a growing and very difficult conflict between skiers on one side and more and more snowmobile users on the other.’ And... ‘The municipal motor travel plan currently has solid digestion in all the krins, from the tour team [[...]] As Vinje's SV rapporteur experiences it, I think many municipalities are going to experience it for years to come. Some believe that the proposal is contrary to the Basic Law § 112, because it is not consistent. It's hard to see that it should be relevant. Today's bill is a government transfer from state to municipality. Municipalities are allowed to establish fixed routes for the use of snowmobiles for leisure purposes – neither more nor less. How the municipalities will exercise this authority, we don't know today. It is difficult, not to say impossible, to consistently carry out a transfer of authority before the authority has been transferred or tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e268	The very purpose of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses, which was adopted here in Stortinget in 1977, is that we should not have motorised traffic in Norwegian nature. It was a thoughtful law, because the outdoors and nature experience are a value that the Stortinget at least when the knowledge is central to Norwegian culture. This is a very great value, which sometimes distinguishes Norway from many other countries – that we have managed to maintain this combination of all-man rights in the outfield and a quiet nature, where we keep the motor traffic away. It is therefore quite amazing that we have a government and an environmental minister who does not even try to document their own views on the consequences of promoting a bill that is directly contrary to the purpose of this law. Outdoor life in Norway is even massively opposed to this proposal, and that is for a reason. The population is massively opposed to this proposal, and that is because they understand the consequences. That doesn't mean that people are against business and the wise use of snowmobiles for practical purposes. People see, on the contrary, that increasingly to allow pleasure rides with snowmobiles has business rides as their very first victim, when all the cabin people get scooters and no longer need to go to him the farmer who lives at the top of the village and had a small nourishment in transporting the suitcases and their backpacks to the cabins. But it is also amazing that the government and the Council of State have not used any ink to reflect on the mechanism you get when you release something that is actually a commercial industry that has one interest, namely to sell snowmobiles – and otherwise to sell ATVs, which are produced by the same producers, and which it is quite appropriate to sell in the same stores when it is summery. When you release such a commercial mechanism in direct competition with a value-based open-air life that doesn't have the same commercial background: what happens then? This is very strange to have to stand and discuss in Stortinget. It would have been a very great advantage if we had at least been able to have this debate on the basis that the government had given us the answer to: How much does the government think is useful? How much does the government think is too much? How many scooters are we going to have in Norwegian nature? How many miles away is it okay that we have? What is the consequence of different levels of snowmobile driving – and what will be the impact on outdoor life? Is the police right to have more illegal driving with more legal loops, as they say in their hearing opinion? Is the experience from Sweden, which says that there is a direct link between the volume of legal driving and the volume of illegal driving, transferable? Is it irrelevant that the scooters that are now mainly sold are high-chamber speed scooters that are specially designed to run in steep terrain and loose snow – does it not matter what consequences we can see? And: Is it realistic that the government is going to grant the money that is needed for the SNO and the police to run the oversight that is required in a majority opinion to be what controls and ensures that you do not have problems with this scooter drive? I asked the Minister of Justice about this on the police's behalf yesterday, and he strongly and clearly confirmed that the supervision that the police will have to carry out will take place within the framework of the police's current resources. It will then be interesting to hear what other police tasks need to be prioritised so that the police can run snowmobiles around Norway and catch lawbreakers. The government and the Minister for the Environment are currently doing a very bad job of outdoor life, and the Greens will vote against the bill and work to ensure that this is a decision that will be rolled back as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e313	Have you ever felt the blessing of nature? Have you ever run barefoot in the pine forest and known the extra spike that the pine needles give? Have you bathed in a water in the deciduous forest as it shines in the light that glitters through the leaves, or walked quietly on skiing in the Easter sun up to Torfinn's horgy in silence, except for the sound of the skis that intersect in the snow? Right then you know the blessing of nature. This is worth taking care of. Do you remember, President, that I asked you exactly this a year and a half ago? Then you said yes. Since then, the government has decided to destroy the pure fjords by saying yes to two fjord deposits, it has tried to cut forest protection, and today it is crossing the Norwegian population and saying yes to lifting the quiet nature. What Stortinget decides today is to increase the number of snowmobiles in Norwegian nature. It will change the experience of Norwegian nature for a long time to come. The stillness will be broken. It is serious, because the opportunity to experience quiet nature is among the main causes of the North's interest in outdoor life. Noise is annoying. It is not accidental that we do not take a Sunday tour along motorways. And there is no doubt that snowmobiles are an important tool for rescue work, for the transport of goods, as a means of emergence for disabled people and used for business purposes. But when we open up today for a more extensive ride, that means that someone gets the freedom to enjoy snowmobile rides, but at the same time the others take their freedom to experience quiet nature. There is reason to believe that more legal driving also leads to more illegal driving, because the loops become entrances to illegal play outside the loops. It is also the conclusion of the evaluation of the experimental municipalities from 2001 to 2005, and some ecocrime and police warn against in consultation opinions on the legislative proposal. That's quite right, what was said in the staging room yesterday: there won't be any extra money to ensure that one gets more controls, and there's nothing to suggest that controls of illegal scooter driving will be prioritised by the police in the time to come. It is a paradox that we are doing this in Norway, when, at the same time in Sweden, they note the negative consequences of a large amount of pleasure driving on the body and try to tighten up the policy. In Sweden, they have about 285,000 snowmobiles. They have 70,000 km of snowmobile loops and an industry that sells between four and five billion Swedish kronor annually. Last year, Swedish authorities presented a new strategy plan. «Great mountain environment» is one of the environmental objectives. There they express concern about: increasing off-road running on land and on snow inside and outside approved routes that the changes in Norway will lead to increasing pressures for Sweden a growing number of snowmobiles and other off-road vehicles, for which there have been 12 pst. increasing from 2009 to 2013 increasing damage to terrain, nature and cultivated land, disturbances for, among others. traditional outdoor and animal life increasing conflict between different groups of users increasing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing number of accidents I said a year and a half ago that I wanted us to take care of the quiet nature, because I wanted to give my daughter the opportunity to move in nature and to teach her how to know the blessing of nature. But this government is getting harder and harder. Some people are trying to make this look like it's just a simple transfer of authority to the municipalities, and it's really not that different. But we who are concerned about nature know that it's different. We know that it's not like that there's one big decision that destroys nature, but we know that nature is being destroyed piece by piece. Today, the majority of the majority of the majority of the Norwegian people are overrun by the Storting. Today, the majority of the population take their lives out of the silence of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e354	Should the representative include proposal No. 4, from the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e357	That's a very good idea, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e362	Then the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the proposal he referred to. Otherwise, the president will refuse to say that he has absolutely felt the suspense of the great nature and silence, but he does not remember being asked the question before. It is very possible, but it has not made such an indelible impression as the experience of nature did.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e367	This government is generally concerned that municipalities should be given greater responsibility and discretion in their local environment. As part of this, I have put forward a proposal that means that municipalities can be given the power to set snowmobile loops for pleasure driving. We have a long-distance country, with huge variations between municipalities. Land, topography, climate and population inequalities are significant. In some municipalities there is a lot of space and people, but relatively many snowmobiles and strong wishes in the local population to use them to drive. Other municipalities do not have the same culture of motorised travel in the outland. Some municipalities have tourism establishments where snowmobiles can provide the basis for new revenues. Others, in turn, have travel activities that are based on pristine nature. By means of the proposal, we allow municipalities – given that certain conditions are met – to decide for themselves whether they want to establish snowmobile runs. So the aim of the amendment is to strengthen local democracy. The legislative proposal is also a response to the Stortinget request decision of 19 June 2014. The size asked the government to submit, as soon as possible, proposals for amending the law on motorcycling in land and watercourses that ensure local management within clear national guidelines included in the law. The proposal extends the use of snowmobiles in outland areas. Such loops have so far been banned, with the exception of Nord-Troms and Finnmark, where there have been their own rules. Many municipalities are likely to take advantage of the opportunity to create loops. It is therefore likely that outland motor travel will increase. The possibility of experiencing natural areas without noise is an important national common good. It is of great importance that such values be respected. Therefore, my starting point is that increased local power to provide motorised traffic should be regulated through centrally defined guidelines. In drawing up the proposal, I have placed a great deal of emphasis on the inclusion of municipalities in the provision of loopholes, so that consideration of natural and outdoor diversity is taken into account. It will be far from free for the municipalities. Driving shall be carried out in separate tracks, which may not be placed in protected areas, in national wild areas or requiring off-road operations. Furthermore, loops shall not cause significant damage or disadvantage to reindeer operations. Municipalities must assess the impact on outdoor life and natural diversity and take a number of considerations into account in the work on the loops, especially for outdoor life, but also for natural diversity, residential and cabin areas, landscapes, cultural memories and the cultural environment. The safety of those who are driving and of others must also be ensured. The proposed rules of procedure also ensure that knowledge and information on consequences and local involvement are taken into account. At the same time, in the design of the proposal, I have placed great emphasis on the fact that the process of setting snowmobile loops by municipalities should be simple and that it should be clear which rules apply. I believe that the individual municipality should be responsible for determining whether it wants to install such loops, as long as all the conditions are met and necessary investigations have been carried out. With the guidelines we propose, I think we can allow snowmobile loops for pleasure driving without having significant negative consequences for outdoor life and nature diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e393	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e396	As the chairman of the committee pointed out in his statement, this is the first case dealt with by the Stortinge which falls under the Constitution § 112. On 3 March, the Council of State wrote to the Committee that ‘more knowledge would have been desirable’, and that if the legislative proposal had been drawn up under less time pressure, it could contain ‘a somewhat more structured and complementary assessment of the possible consequences of the proposal’. This is a little worrying, and then my question is to the Council of State: How will she facilitate the implementation of knowledge acquisition and investigations so that the Constitution § 112 is respected, before the municipalities are allowed to determine snowmobile runs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e403	As mentioned in the proposition, motor travel in outland is likely to increase as a result of the legislative proposal, but the proposal itself does not imply the establishment of snowmobile loops. It is the individual municipality that decides whether or not to do so. The local consequences of the establishment of loops must therefore be investigated by the individual municipality. Through the requirements we have made to the municipalities, we have ensured that such local investigations will be carried out. To impose this investigation requirement on the municipality is an action which forms part of the fulfilment of the responsibility under the Basic Law § 112. Local authorities must, among other things: identify and value open-air areas where loops are planned, and assess their impact on other open-air areas in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e408	The representative, Mr. Hansen, might like to raise proposal No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e411	I would like to address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e417	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e420	The Christian People's Party was among those who asked for a bill as soon as possible to return to Stortinget, but we did not want a proposal that was without proper investigation. Then the question is, why is it so urgent? There are no estimates of the increase in snowmobile traffic, no estimates of the size of new loops and no limitations on the impact on nature, outdoor life and public health. Do the Councils see these major challenges, and what answers do the Councils have to these challenges, except to point to the responsibilities of the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e425	It is close to pointing out the responsibilities of the municipalities, because in this bill we give the municipalities the power to establish snowmobile loops themselves if the municipalities themselves want to, and that is through the requirements we have made to the municipalities, we ensure that such investigations will be carried out. We're doing that from the Basic Law § 112. It is an obligation to investigate this, but when this authority is granted to the municipalities, it is important that, if necessary, the establishment of snowmobile loops is investigated by those closest to that decision. We believe that this has been well taken care of by the legislative proposal that has now been submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e430	Running in fixed tracks will in itself lead to a safer ride with a scooter than is sometimes seen in the case of illegal driving under today's regime. A stronger regulatory regime will also be established, which will monitor compliance and that one will not get the illegal driving as one sometimes sees it. This is to be the responsibility of the State's natural supervision, but we have also stressed very strongly in the position that the police must play a significant role in that work. In many places in the country, police have built up good knowledge of illegal scooter driving, and it would be unnecessary and unfortunate if one in these areas were to build parallel organisations — and build up SNO’s competence at the expense of the police. How will the Council of State follow up the comments made by the Right, the Advance Party and the Central Party in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e439	The representative Arnstad has an important point, that we don't use scarce resources in a bad way. With the resources available to the police, they – as the Minister of Justice and Security pointed out in the spontaneous question yesterday – will do this work within the framework of the allocation they have. But what we're also doing is giving SNO, which is a lot out there in nature, and who sees this, permission to charge an infringement fee to snowmobile drivers who break the motorcyclist code. This is important. In the municipalities there is quite a lot of local knowledge about where any illegal driving takes place, and when loops are put, one will also get a better idea of where this snowmobile ride, if any, will take place. There's a pretty good cooperation between the SNO and the police out there. We will follow that up, so that this cooperation is further strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e446	First, I have to remember to bring up proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e451	Excellent. The representative of Ola Elvestuen has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e454	The Council of State stated in its statement that it is important that municipalities take into account outdoor life and natural diversity in their investigations, but there are small resources in many municipalities and little competence on the knowledge they need to make these assessments. Then my question becomes: what will the Council of State do to build up the necessary competences in the municipalities, to ensure that the interests of the municipalities in terms of outdoor life and natural diversity are not at the expense of what are national interests in both natural and outdoor diversity? Or does the Council of State define national interests so narrowly as in the legislative proposal that there are protected areas, proposed protected areas and national wilderness areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e461	When we give the municipalities the power to go in and work on the possible establishment of snowmobile loops, we also assume that the municipalities – if they are interested in it – provide the necessary resources for this work. What matters to us, and to which we have put great emphasis, is that the process to be implemented by municipalities should be simple, and it should be clear which rules apply. That's why we've been trying to influence the municipalities' access to establish pathways – in order to take care of natural diversity and outdoor life. I think an advantage with much of the public debate about this issue has been that the municipalities are quite aware that they should do this properly, within a clearly agreed framework, which the Stortinge give today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e470	The first Minister of the Environment did when she arrived at the post was to remove ‘protection’ from the title of the Minister of Environment. Since then, contrary to environmental recommendations, she has permitted fjord deposits in several fjords, she has tried to cut forest protection, and today she is freeing nature by removing the quiet nature. I have two questions for the Minister for the Environment. One is: Is it by chance that she has removed «protection» from the title of the Minister for the Protection of the Environment? The second is: how mad must a scooter drive be to make the Minister for the Environment realize that this was a bad decision? What does it take for her to decide to turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e477	Now we had repeated rounds around one problem in this room yesterday. In the case of Fördefjorden, we received clear advice from the Environment Directorate on this decision. The representative of Eidsvoll Holmås also knows that forest protection is at a historically high level in 2015. The fact that we changed the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Climate and Environment was precisely to stress the seriousness of the climate challenge, and that the Ministry has been given a cross-sectoral role in working with climate and working with other departments to achieve a more ambitious climate policy – which was also needed when we took over after the red-green government. What we're discussing today in this room is giving municipalities greater autonomy. It is important for this government, but we also hit the bill well, so that it is possible to balance local autonomy in taking care of the outdoors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e489	In response to questions from the Energy and Environment Committee to the Minister for Climate and Environment about the consequences of this proposal, the Minister for the Environment responds by referring to the municipalities. Is it reasonable, in the view of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, to promote first a legislative proposal which is likely to have a major impact on a very important value in Norway, namely winter-free life, and then to disclaim all responsibility for the possible consequences of this by referring to the municipalities that will decide what will happen and how that will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e494	The answer is based on what this bill is about. The bill is about empowering municipalities to assess for themselves whether they want snowmobile loops. As I said in my main post: This government sees that there is a great difference between the municipalities in this country. We believe that the municipalities themselves are able to assess whether they want snowmobile loops, where they want them, and in what way they want them. But that's why it's also important to provide a central framework for where snowmobile loops, if any, can go – in order to ensure outdoor life and natural diversity. My answer is based on what this bill is about, namely to give increased autonomy to Norwegian municipalities. There might be a reason why I had a visit by some workers' party rapporteurs in my office a year and a half ago, who said that this responsibility was they ready to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e501	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e506	After the temperature and vocabulary in this case, it would be thought that snowmobiles are planned in Nordmarka, at Hardangervidda, in Jotunheimen and elsewhere in the inner file of Norwegian nature. Those who are concerned about this know that it is as wrong as it may be, and I think the Tourist Association with its supporters here in the house could have shown so much social responsibility that at least its own members had been informed that such areas, all protected areas and all other valuable open-air areas and all urban areas throughout the country are not covered by this proposal. In such areas, and in wild areas, it will be absolutely prohibited, in the same way as today. Some also suggest that, as a doomsday for Norwegian nature, we should give our foremost democratic level — the elected local authorities — limited access within strict national frameworks to assess the benefits and disadvantages of making fixed routes for snowmobiles. This, I believe, is a total lack of confidence in local democracy, which every day addresses at least as important issues as people's health and well-being. Having said that, I should not underestimate that this matter has also been difficult in my party. But it's something other than overcoming local democracy, which more representatives do in this case. I record that the Progress Party and the Right are trying to make it like the Workers' Party is against local government. That's wrong. It appears from the opinion of the Committee that the Workers' Party considers that, as a general rule, the loop breeds should be placed close to existing road networks, including forest roads. So it's to say yes to the government's proposal to give access to leisure driving, but with a different and more limited device. With this proposal, we in the Labour Party believe that a fair balance is struck between the consideration of national control and respect for local democracy in a completely different way from the intrusive opponents of any local democratic element in the matter. The Labour Party has also made a different balance: in what is described as larger districts with a low population density, we understand that the balance of interest can be different than in more densely built districts. That's why we also open for fixed scooter tracks in areas without road networks or forest highways, but of course after thorough impact assessments. As busy as we are in this room, more than us in the Workers' Party know, of course, that natural conditions, use of nature and outdoor traditions vary greatly from part of the country to part of the country, from municipality to municipality. This proposal will, for example: lead to that most of the municipalities in my county will be able to decide on several routes according to the same principle, either our proposal or that of the government being taken into account. This means, for example: that, with the proposal of the Workers' Party, my neighbouring municipality, Hattfjelldal, is a test municipality, can maintain its network.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e519	This is a day I've been waiting for a long time. Finally, after 14 years of a pilot project in nine selected district municipalities, we are adopting today a change in the law on motor travel in outland and watercourses that allows local authorities to determine snowmobile loops for pleasure. The experience of the 14-year trial project shows that there is less illegal running and the level of conflict with other open-air interests is smaller. As the representative Arnstad also said in his post, where she referred to Vinje, which is a municipality in my home state of Telemark, they have had very good experience for 14 years. The background for Vinje Municipality applying to join the trial project was an increasing illegal running of snowmobiles. For many years, several of the neighbouring municipalities of Vinje have wanted to have the same conditions as Vinje municipality. So it is a day of joy for local democracy and self - control. Local people have insight into the municipality's geography, and the trust that is now shown to the municipalities, I am sure local politicians will manage well. This change in law will not lead to a release of snowmobile loops, as some claim. Too many municipalities will not be able to establish bishops, but this change in law will give municipalities a level playing field and a place to set snowmobile runners. The response from the municipalities when they tried to extend the experiment was that 104 municipalities announced that they would participate. It tells us that this change in law is delayed outside the municipalities. The legislative proposal also imposes great demands on the local process and the consent of the landowner. There are now 76 500 scooters registered in Norway, and there is a lot of illegal running. A strong call for snowmobile clubs and runners is that they are aware of the responsibility they have to show consideration and respect the laws and rules for running leisure in approved runs. I understand those who want to be quiet and calm when they travel in nature, but I certainly believe that there is room for both. With this change of law, municipalities have the opportunity to regulate and facilitate both quiet and motor travel. On the right, the municipalities and the local people want to be happy with the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e534	Today is a big day for the many who want to get into nature, but have no possibilities if one cannot use motorized tools. The day is the same for scooter enthusiasts, who now have the possibility to establish a scooter loop in their municipality of origin or in the neighbouring municipality. But perhaps most of all, today is important because we give confidence in local democracy that makes it possible to assess whether it should facilitate scooter crossroads, based on a thorough assessment of whether it is suitable for it, local adaptations and needs. Several will probably conclude that one can’t adapt the desire for tranquillity in nature with the establishment of scooter loops, while others think that one can meet the need for both target groups that use nature and outdoors actively. It is important that local democracy is given the necessary confidence to make these important assessments for its neighbourhood, and one must be clear about it. The Progress Party trusts the local politicians. Previous speakers have examined the details of the matter, which show that the framework conditions underpinning this liberalisation are strict and democratic, with many clear reluctance and diligence. There are enough of the biggest representatives who have been the victims of e-mail campaigns where one claims that a selected representative has just gone into Stortinget to ensure silence in nature and expects this to be followed up. My answer to all of these senders is that I went to the elections to give local democracy the opportunity to establish scooter loops, and I want to keep this promise. But if you don't want to, it's completely possible to participate in the local process for or against such an establishment. And that's the answer today in this room as well. I believe that the opponents have little or no confidence in local democracy. I just have to regret this, especially as there are local elections this year. Such opposition leads to political disdain, and that it is raised by the foremost politicians in the country, should be unnecessary. Then it's the ones that point to the danger of accidents and use it as a reason. Yes, if an outrageous use of car, boat and other means of arrival, would the accident figure probably go down, but is that how we want it? The fact is, the accidents happen mainly outside the noted loops. The representative, Odd Henriksen, made a good contribution. I think he was the spokesperson when we were visiting and getting to see what kind of experience one had in one of these test communities. It was good. Nutritionally, this is also a good possibility with a high potential. Most strangely, the Labour Party, where a representative comes forward and criticises the solution of the day, while the representative Juvik almost praises her. It is strange that one after 14 years of experimentation, and over the years that the Labour Party has set itself up, has not been able to conclude in this case, which is so important to many.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e555	It's a special day for District Norway, for my home country Nord-Trøndelag, for municipalities where outdoor motor travel means a lot – both for local people and for business. At the same time, this matter is of major importance in principle. The Right-Fremskrit Party government has confidence in the community and can take several decisions for itself, while the government rules less. The knowledge is evenly distributed here in the country. Landowners and local politicians also value quiet nature, if anyone believes otherwise. Yeah, actually, they're the closest to managing their areas, and they're doing it an excellent way. It is a guiding principle for this government to strengthen local democracy. Power should be disseminated so that landowners, residents, businesses and municipalities together find better solutions than whether the state and national politicians should decide and govern everything. Silence and tranquillity are important, but there is also activity — strengthening business, housing, housing in District Norway. Nature shall be used and shall be used in a balanced and good manner. The law is well established, it is balanced, it has clear national leadership, there are clear limitations in the law to preserve natural diversity, protected areas, outdoor life, etc. Both the authority and vision of owners of land and mountain governments shall be taken into account. This law meets great expectations from parts of District Norway. It's anti-elitistic in its basics of using nature. For this is not a release, it is in reality a law that transfers power where it belongs – in the communities concerned. We hear the sound of the nodule and the tourist elite in the hall today. We register large pathos, both from the representative Hansson and especially from the representative Holmås, who visit nature occasionally on Sundays. I do not think either the representative Holmås or Hansson should worry so much that these qualities should be reduced, for there is no basis for that. On the other hand, I am more amazed at many of the representatives of the Labour Party, who in this debate feel something quite different than they did in the 2013 election campaign. I actually think a lot of people, both Labour Party rapporteurs and voters in District Norway, notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e568	I'm from Eastfold, so I thought quite strongly not to participate in the debate, because it's not exactly a snowflake. But now that I have heard the debate here, I found out that it was quite clever to report anyway. I have not had the pleasure of participating in the committee's examination of the matter, but I have followed it with interest, and I have read the media releases. When I record how little believe the opponents of the matter have in local democracy, how little they believe in local politicians, and how little they believe in the administration of the municipalities, I'm surprised. It may sound as if they believe that the planned loops provide a complete release, and that there should be scooter loops across the municipalities, completely without control. When I hear the post from SV's Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, I am next shocked, for it sounds more like a school election debate than a big debate. Because it's not that bad. It's completely wrong. When I read the Committee's position, where the members of the Committee from the Right, the Party of Advances and the Centre point out that recreational snowmobile rides do not involve any free slip – among others. shall not be allowed to lie in protected areas, proposed protected areas or national wild areas, loops shall not cause significant damage or disadvantage to reindeer management, or shall require ground-breaking action, and, in fixing the loops, municipalities shall pay particular attention to noise and other handicaps to outdoor life, and it shall listen to the landowners – then I believe that local democracy will do so. When the same parties also point out that municipalities should take into account natural diversity, residential and cabin areas, landscapes, cultural memories and the cultural environment as well as security, then there must be something the opponents have not understood, or do not want to understand. We in the Progress Party believe that local democracy is well suited to managing local resources and making balances between land use and natural management. It is important that closeness between those who make decisions and those who are affected by them strengthen local democracy, I believe, at least. And you also hear a lot of representatives say that they've been cleaned up by text messages and messages, so it's safe for the locals to get involved. I'm sure you'll notice that. We live in a country with thousands of square miles of free space and silence. It's not like you have to put the excursions in these loop breeds. There are enough of the areas in our amazing country with silence, without snowmobiles, that can be chosen, if you want. Then I will add: by this I will invite those who believe that it is not silence, to a trip with me in the forest of Eastfold, which is quite densely populated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e583	As several speakers have said earlier, this is a great day. It's not primarily a big day of the scooter industry, but it's a big day for local democracy, because we're laying down some principles on how to deal with local politicians out there. When Sverdrup once said ‘all the power in this room’, it was probably not primarily the local politicians and the people he thought had to be crushed. He looked up. In this case, we have some principles that shift power downwards. It's a trick. There have been quite a few strange arguments in the months we have debated this matter in Stortinget. It is claimed that the evaluation is not good enough to change the law, but yet our opponents can be crystal clear that they know enough that changes in the law cannot be adopted. You know enough that it should be the way it is today, but you don't know enough to know if changes to the law can be tolerated. To Rigmor Andersen Eide, who believes that we can awaken Asbjørnsen and Moe by this change of laws: I have to calm her down – I don't think it's that way that we wake up old adventure heroes. ‘Examining the consequences’ is also mentioned, but it is this room that has said no to further attempts, and that is why we received a direct bill from the Council of State. The size said that we should not have an extended testing scheme – well, then came the bill. ‘Use of nature’ is also an expression that is often used in this case. I've grown up in a state where we use nature a lot, where we use nature in close contact with reindeer, agriculture and other outdoor interests. I'm taught that it's just as important to take into account the interests of others when I'm out with my dog, as when I'm out running scooters. Taking into account each other when we're out using nature is actually part of the Norwegian culture, and it's embedded in the Norwegian people's soul. That is why I am also here with our local politicians. It is because of their competence and their knowledge and according to these principles they are going to exercise the trust and the power that they are now given. What we see here is an example of troubling local democracy. During the last growing period, we recorded that the Minister of Environmental Protection from SV was out running lobbying courses for the NGOs, so that the fight against the municipalities should be stronger – it is the planning and building law, it is the nature diversity law. For the SV, local democracy is not important at all: SV thinks ‘all power in this room’, that then we have to decide, and then the others just follow. But for local democracy and for people growing up in a local democratic system, local democracy is important, and then we have to shift power downwards. We've done that here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e600	There have been some statements in the debate that cannot be allowed to stand completely undisputed. The representative, Andersen Eide, says that we have to think about the cabin life and the amazing tranquillity and silence. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås says that we are killing the silence of nature. If you really mean it, when you say it, then a sailor's saying must also go more drastic than what the representatives are doing today. Then one must also ban all business with scooters. There is no difference between the noise of a commercial scooter and that of leisure. The noise is exactly the same. Some of what is perceived as noise in national parks can be the Norwegian Tourist Association's own ride with scooters of food and equipment for its cabins. So I have to say that I wonder a little bit about a part of the vocabulary that one chooses to put on, and it has been a bit strange to witness such a well-directed campaign – probably also expensive – that many of us have met before the discussion of the proposal. I am also somewhat struck by the lack of trust in Norwegian municipalities by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. How many from the Workers' Party did not promise their voters before the 2013 election campaign that they would have increased local maritime governance in this area. In my own state, there was no doubt. And a number of workers' party rapporteurs have had great expectations of their responsibilities, but they are not given them today. I understand that this has been a difficult matter for the Workers' Party, and it seems almost as if there are two quite different points of view for which it is argued, from the representatives Eva Kristin Hansen and Kjell-Idar Juvik, although they are knowingly talking about the same matter and probably also together will vote against the proposal that is on the table here today. Then I have to be allowed to comment a little on the Basic Law § 112: I said that it is impossible to follow through on a transfer of authority before one has transferred and exercised the authority. Therefore, the legislative proposal does not in itself involve specific, planned interventions in nature, as expressed in the second paragraph of Section 112 of the Constitution. That is precisely what the bill leaves to local democracy to decide, within clear national frameworks and under certain conditions. Therefore, I am also a little surprised that those who are most concerned with the Constitution § 112 were not in 2013, when personal watercraft were allowed in Norwegian fjords. But then it was said that there was an EU directive – an EU requirement – and there are many parties in this room that have been able to bend for that kind of requirement. Such a type of authority in matters of planning and land area which is located here today has municipalities on all matters other than motor travel. The centre party is convinced that local democracy is able to balance the responsibility and need for the whole of this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e617	In this proposition, the Ministry of Climate and Environment proposes changes to the law on motorcycling in land and watercourses. The aim of the law is to regulate motor travel in land and watercourses in order to protect the natural environment, but also to promote well-being. The party of progress accepts that the definition of well-being can be so lacking. For some, the definition of well-being is a cup of coffee in silence on a mountaintop, but for some others, the definition of well-being is a trip on snowmobiles in winterland the perfect. We have enough space in Norwegian nature for both of these types of well-being. Today is a good day. We have the opportunity to give local democracy recognition by transferring the authority to take decisions on snowmobile loops to the municipalities. This will be a recognition of the regime. I refer here to Røros, who in his time chose not to take advantage of his ability to facilitate snowmobile rides. Today is good for the tourist and travel industry, which can get an extra leg to stand on. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, recreational snowmobile rides have been increasing for many years, and the tourism industry has lived well on the North as a cross-border roller coaster to run snowmobiles. Now we can soon facilitate this for ourselves. Today is good for the landowners, who will still have the right to own property. They may say no to scooter driving on the property, or they may, in combination with the tourism industry, facilitate workplaces. In my home municipality Lødningen we chose to take advantage of the opportunity when we extended the trial scheme, but we did a bad job, so the landowners said no, they did not accept it. Today is good for those who want to bring down the accident rates for snowmobiles in Norway. The progress batch records that the risk of snowmobile accidents is lower in Sweden, where permitted, and there is another link between accidents and illegal driving. Today is good for nature and protection interests, as the law will take care of this in the future. However, the Progress Party understands that today is not good for those who believe that only their own definition of well-being in nature is correct, for example. a cup of coffee in silence on a mountain ridge – or that the local democracy is unable to manage the area of its own municipality, or that does not want to give the landowner the right to dispose of his own land, or that does not want new opportunities for the tourism industry. The Advance Party accepts that their experience of the day today does not feel good, but we can live well with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e638	I must really say that I have great respect for local democracy, and that there are also variations in Norway, and therefore the Left has never proposed changes in North Troms and Finnmark. I also understand that there are scooter loops that are well built, in Fauske or elsewhere, but we must not give the impression that the change in law that we are making now is a small extension of what we have already had. This is a major change, which could lead to a large increase in scooter loops in Norway, and it is a fundamental change in the purpose of the Motor Travel Act and the reason for the change in the 1977 law, where one saw, from Stortinget, that there was too much scooter driving when the responsibility was added to the municipalities. Then we talk about strict national frameworks. There are not strict national frameworks. Of course, there are protected areas, there are proposed protected areas, there are national wild areas, there are protected areas under the Cultural Memory Act, and it is clear that it must be a matter of course not to have a scooter drive into these areas. But there are national nature protection values beyond this. And no matter how much respect you have for Municipality-Norway and those who sit there, it's not necessarily the sum of individual decisions that give the largest and best national policy. And despite the fact that we are initially opposed to the change, we have tried to find proposals that can form a wider majority and create stricter national frameworks, which do not allow scooter loops into what are coherent national winter outdoor areas, both by giving a clear responsibility to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, so that they can go in and place restrictions on having it fixed when it goes beyond national protection interests, and not least that we take into account that there are also national outdoor interests. It's rejected by the majority. I think it is very special that it is this proposal that comes now – nor has it been shown that any of the restrictive proposals that have been put in place – and that this is the gift that is given to Norwegian outdoor life in the years of outdoor life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e649	I took the floor – a little to comment on the post of the representative Juvik. It is quite right that the Workers' Party in its proposal – which they have together with the Left and Christian People's Party – does not want to get new investigations from the government. But in his remarks, the Workers' Party is crystal clear that that's what you want. In a way, you go for a weekend, or you can say that you want to sit still in the boat and look at what is happening, in the same way that they sat completely silent in the boat from 2005 to 2013, during the treatment – or non-treatment – of the same law. I have great respect for both quiet meadows and skiers. I've used it a lot myself in my own life. It's part of our identity, of being Norwegian. But the law doesn't facilitate scooter runs where there's a lot of people going skiing, on the contrary. There are very strict legal frameworks, and I don't think this will be a big conflict. Unlike the very red and green side of the hall, I have not only respect for those who seek silence, I also have great respect for the fact that all the people who live somewhat peripherally in Norway, and where there is a relation to being able to run scooters, should be able to drive scooters, be allowed to use nature. These are great natural experiences. It's a pleasure for your child. There's to a large extent a struggle around it. The majority is against the law, claims the representative Eidsvoll Holmås. Well, there have been two gallupes. In one gallup, it was asked if the population wanted a free slip. There has never been any mention of free slip. Of course, a majority opposed it. The second asked whether a "scooterlaw" was wanted for strict national guidelines. In all parts of the population, there was a large majority for, especially among young people, but one community group was able to be found that was opposed: it was highly educated millionaires who lived on the Oslo West. There was 1 pst. more people who were opposed than if it were equal. Otherwise, there was a majority in all walks of life. If the representative Eidsvoll Holmås believes that his natural ally is the so-called neck saddle, he shall be allowed to stand with that friendship.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e660	What this debate has been about today is whether we have confidence or distrust of our local elected representatives. There have been many good arguments from the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Center Party – I will not repeat them. I'd rather tell you a story. A few weeks ago I was in Stjørdal. There I met Per Gresli, who was 95 years old at the scooter meeting. Per at 95 years would get more out in the field, and he says, I'm so old now that I can't easily take the skis and take a trip on the ground. I hope you arrange the run, so that it is possible to take a walk. Every 95 years, local politicians in the Tidalen believe they have to decide this. The Labour Party's response to Pers's request came from Ingvild Kjerkol, who said: I agree, I, that the municipalities that have been trusted have shown themselves to be worthy, therefore more municipalities should be given trust. So my other good colleague in the Committee on Transport, Kjell-Idar Juvik, says on the Workers' Party's website that'municipalities who want to do so can organise a sensible loop network for snowmobiles, which also opens up recreational driving'. The Selfu Workers' Party went to elections in 2011 to ensure that central authorities ensure more local land management. In large parts of Trondelag, the Right Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have been united – in the Middle Gauldal, in Melhus, in Oppdal, in Åfjord, in Haltdalen they have asked that the local elected representatives be allowed to decide. I am pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are standing by their promises to their voters. But what has happened in the Workers' Party? Is it the Workers' Party elite that is now running over the districts? It is certainly not good to know what has happened, or what is going to happen. Is the Workers' Party now going to be on the proposal that municipalities be allowed to decide even when it comes to the local government? Is the District and People's Labour Party going to go against the elite and be with the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party in the municipalities about a separate provision over the loop network? I think so. I think we're going to see the popular Workers' Party turning towards the elite in the Workers' Party. As a proud member of the Norwegian Tourist Association, I still believe that I can move in Norwegian nature in silence, tranquillity and peace, while at the same time using common sense and facilitating a good loop net.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e671	For the Central Party, this is primarily about more local democracy. I am quite surprised at how many here in the Chamber who do not believe in local democracy and the local government politicians out there. It's the same municipal government politicians who can build motorsport centres today, which can say that here we want a forest road that can build cabins, but that can't build a scooter loop that uses a maximum of three months a year. It surprises me that we believe that local politicians will make poor choices for their inhabitants just when it comes to snowmobile runs. There have been a lot of strange arguments here in the hall today. We can't have a freezer of snowmobile rides, it's said. No, I don't think there's anyone here in the hall who wants to get free of snowmobile rides. I think most of them are like me, who don't run scooters, and who want to have the opportunity to take a quiet ski trip, but it's not about the whole municipality being covered by scooter runners. Many of us live in scattered municipalities where there may be 1 km2 per capita, and it is clear that if 2 pst. by the municipality a rennet or remains in the noise area of a rennet, there is still 98 pst. once more as a means of cultivating just open-air life on skis, in peace and quiet. Then this is about the cabin life, and it's going to be destroyed. I have been visiting the cabin area and registered that the noise in the cabin area comes largely from a diesel unit because someone either watches TV or vacuum cleaners or what they are now using this for. It's something that's really annoying, and it's a noise that's going on over time. If there's a scooter passing, it's in a very, very short time. Then we have to bear in mind that this should be allowed from the landowner in order for it to be possible to install loops. It is not that a take from the landowners authority over their own property. The landowners have to give permission, and where the landowners don't want it, there won't be a loop. And it will reduce the accidents when we get this into orderly forms. If I don't remember anything wrong, it hasn't been a single accident in Sweden in the last five years. In Norway we have had too many deaths with scooters only this year. That means we have to do something to avoid these accidents, and then we have to get safe, marked runs in the municipalities where they want it. The working party surprises me very much in this matter. In the South-Trande Team, the Labour Party rapporteurs have been the most impelled to put this system in place. They want business development, and they want more housing for those who are asking for such a loop, and it surprises me that they will not now give local politicians the confidence that they can decide whether they want to run or whether they don't want to run in their own municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e687	It should worry us all that the Council of States is unable to tell us about the consequences. It is alarming that the Council of State wrote in a letter to the Stortinget that it would have been desirable for the government to have better time to deal with this matter. It's really quite alarming that the government has chosen to treat this quickly. One would think they had learned from what happened last year. The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen instead said that the Stortinget stopped the experiment. That's wrong. The red-green government introduced a trial. The new government said that anyone who wanted to be able to participate in the experiment. The civil officer said it was illegal. Nevertheless, the government parties here in Stortinget wanted to vote to continue the trial. There was a majority in the Storting for that. Fortunately, the Council of State took the floor in the debate and said that she chose to stop the experiment. There is talk of where is the Workers' Party, of why the Workers' Party does not believe in the locals. The Workers' Party will give municipalities more power. We say that we open up for local government. What we're opposed to is pleasure driving. Pleasure for a few shall not destroy the pleasure of the many. So I also have to say that it's really quite remarkable to hear what contempt it's spoken from the parties on the right about what they call the nodule. I don't think they're taking over the great resistance. The Tourist Association, which is almost referred to in a contemptuous tone, has 290,000 members, it is one of Norway's largest membership organisations, and they, with a combined outdoor movement, warn against what the government is doing. It's not just the outdoors that do it, it's the Health Directorate, the Police Directorate and the Sports Department – everyone has come up with warnings that the government has chosen to ignore. Finally, it is quite right, as the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås said, we no longer have an Environment Minister. If it were just the state council title, I wouldn't have been so worried, but when they took the title off, it turned out that they also got away from politics. Afterwards, the protection of nature is lost. I heard that the council's only show list was that she had given money to forest protection. Well, it was just because the Storting said no to her own suggestion. She herself wanted to cut two thirds of the forest protection. Fortunately, the Storting said no to it. In the fall, Erna Solberg was asked in the questionnaire if she could come on a single initiative this government had done for nature protection. The answer was no. And today we see that nature conservation is going down again, and we think that from the Workers' Party's side is sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e702	Why do we have a natural diversity law that is not practiced individually in the municipalities? Why do we have a cultural memory law that is not practiced individually in the municipalities? Why do we have a pollution law that is not practised individually in the municipalities? And why do we have a rush of other laws here in the country for which it is not left to the municipalities to decide practices for? It's e.g. not up to Norwegian municipalities to decide whether to drive for 50 km/h or for 120 km/h in densely built districts. It's not an assault on the municipalities, it's not contempt for municipal autonomy, it's not a mistrust that the municipalities can't handle things themselves. I am sure that the local government in Selbu is able to make an opinion about how fast you should drive in the center, but the point is that these laws regulate matters relating to values where there is not a strong interest that can preserve its own values. These are laws relating to values that have national and very long-term implications, and there are issues that need to be addressed at national level in order not to miss out on the pressures of effective groups wishing to implement their specific interests contrary to those of national interests. And so here we know what national interests are. It says polls, and it says a lot of other information. That's why it's good – now the Workers' Party gets a lot thin here – that the Workers' Party has ample overview to stand up for that kind of value. It's scary that we have an environment minister who doesn't just do this, but is not willing to express his own opinion on these issues, as it's her job to defend in a political pasture where almost all other interests would be the opposite. That's what we need an Environment Minister, to stand up for such values – at least express an opinion. When she doesn't even do that, the question is how much one should really 'outsource' to the municipalities, and what kind of effect it would have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e709	That the Center Party is amazed that the Christian People's Party will only allow commercial and commercial driving, I wonder a little. Then Marit Arnstad has not understood our clear concern about the increase we believe it will be in snowmobile traffic. Then the Center Party has not perceived our concern for the extent of the extent of the loop net becoming gradually, and our concern for the negative impact on wildlife and outdoor life, a nature that is as free from disturbance and noise as possible. Then one might ask whether to open up a general access to pleasure driving is in line with Section 1 of the Motor Travel Act, where it says: ‘to regulate motor travel in land and watercourses with a view to protecting the natural environment and promoting well-being’. The Christian People's Party believes, so that it is clear, that it is a major challenge for the use of Norwegian nature for outdoors and traditional natural experiences to allow pleasure driving with scooters in the outland.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e719	I think it's very strange if we've ended up in a situation where there's a bunch of people on the Stortinget who think there's nothing that has national interest and should be determined nationally. I'd like to say that if there's someone who's a member of local democracy, for example. I did. I would like to have the government parties and others to decide the hospital structure locally, and that responsibility should be transferred to local democracy. But no then, that's where the majority in this room says that we have to decide stately rather than local. So who is for local democracy depends on the eyes that see. But I believe that Norwegian nature is a national interest. What the big crowd is doing now is overrun the majority of the Norwegian people, who are clear followers of strict rules for scooter driving. When representatives of the Progress Party are up here and say that it is only the nodule that is for this, it shows that the Progress Party has bombed when they look at the Norwegian people, and we see that again in the polls. The majority of the population want strict legislation for scooter driving. That is what we have today – today we have strict legislation and strict national leadership. What you get with this proposal is not a strict regime, but opening up for pleasure driving to a completely different degree from what we've seen. I see that the outdoor movement is unanimous in its criticism of this. It is alarming that Linda Hofstad Helleland has not brought it. I am a proud member of the Tourist Association and the Association of Nature Conservation, and I think they have done a great job of trying to administer the procedure that has been on the part of the government, much more reason than what has been seen, as opposed to the Fifth Columnist Linda Hofstad Helleland, who has worked very clearly in the opposite direction. Here, however, it must be that we establish that this matter has a history. Remember, the reason why we have the law we have today is that the majority of society so that there was a need for a tightening. Now it opens up again, without proper investigations, and it also admits the Minister for the Environment. Then is my question to the Environment Minister, to whom I expect her to answer, because I have asked the question once earlier without her having answered: How will the Environment Minister look at the consequences of this, and what will happen to her saying no, this went beyond what we wanted, beyond what we had thought, so here it is necessary to tighten up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e732	The President would point out that talking about a co-representative as a fifth-colonist is certainly not parliamentary – it is far from what is parliamentary!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e735	The debate is approaching the end. I would like to thank you for the debate, even though it is with a bismach when I think about what seems to be the result, namely that you get a big opening for setting up snowmobiles in Norway. But I would also like to stress the responsibility that now lies with the majority to ensure that the consequences are no more dramatic than what has been said here, that one actually has a quality in the proceedings, and that one has a national overall view of the natural values that need to be taken into account, as well as the outdoor life that needs to be taken into account. At least from the Left side, we will not see this day as a conclusion, but as much as a beginning of a further debate in which we will fight for Norwegian nature, and where we will also fight for Norwegian outdoor life from the Stortinget by building up knowledge, building up and continuing the knowledge promise for Norwegian nature to provide a basis for making decisions locally, far beyond this very matter. But we also need to strengthen the State's nature oversight; it is absolutely necessary that the majority is about to do so. We need to build up the expertise and also the will of the police to avoid the illegal driving that many think will allow more permits. It is also up to the majority to support the idea that we will have a control system, so that their description of the illegal driving here will not become a reality. From the left we really don't want to change the law as it is. But when the majority first introduces it, we will continue to work at national level, as I mentioned, but also locally in all local governments, both in order to preserve Norwegian outdoor life and local natural values and work for the best possible solution. I think all parties must have an independent interest in it, so that we do not end up, as we did in 1977, with a development where there was a dramatic increase in the snowmobile ride, and we have to start again with dramatic and strong contractions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e745	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e748	I would also like to thank you for the debate. A few points all the way to the tap: The representative Eidsvoll Holmås is trying to make a rhetorical point of what local democracy is going to decide or not. But the point is that local government is the general rule in terms of planning and land issues. That is the general rule, and it is a responsibility of the Central Party that the municipalities are fully capable of caring for them. They have extensive experience of balancing land and nature management considerations and of different interests. Otherwise, I must say that I am responding to the Workers' Party's attack on the Minister for the Environment. I think the Workers' Party should concentrate on all the voters they have broken election promises to – in my county: almost everyone. All the rapporteurs from the Labour Party said that, wherever the Labour Party was, they said: we are going to contribute to another type of motor racing law. But we must note that today it is the City-Worker Party that won and the District-Worker Party that lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e757	I want to start by bragging by the representative Arnstad. I hope that her red-green friends can begin to listen more to her, for it is very reasonable posts she keeps from this pulpit. Then I also want to comment on the Workers' Party's attack on the Environment Minister. It's completely unreasonable, all the time we in this room know that the Workers' Party time and time again while they were themselves in government, tried to persuade the Swedish Minister of the Environment to do the same thing we're doing now. We know about the forces in the Workers' Party that have fought for them to present the law that we are now presenting, and the changes that we are making now, but they lost for SV. So the Labour Party must not try to present it as if they think otherwise – nor all the time we know that the local politicians of the Labour Party around Norway today are hurt because they have suggested for many years in the local government that this must be allowed the local people elected to decide for themselves. Then there's no credibility in that game, and there's double communication The Labour Party is now trying. I think everyone understands that. Then I would like to say that as a proud member of DNT, I am in the full process of planning a new top tour with my family and my little boys this summer. I take them out in the field and on the mountain as often as possible – not on scooters, but on skis or on foot. And I'm not afraid that we're not going to continue to have amazing natural experiences in the Norwegian mountain resort or in the market even though some municipalities are going to establish a loop network. It's not as black and white as some try to make it as. No one knows their municipality better than our local politicians out there. We therefore need to be confident that they will now manage their responsibilities, in the best possible way – towards their citizens, but also in terms of nature. I hope that the Workers' Party around the city stands for what they have been thinking for many years, that they will locally spite the workers' party and listen to the people out there – we who live in the districts and who see all the space that is to be used for them – and that they will go for the solution to the Right, the Progress Party and the Center Party. I think we're going to see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e768	The important thing for the government in this matter is increased municipal autonomy. It is the same local self-government as the two working party rapporteurs from Inner Namdal asked so nicely when they were meeting on this matter in my office a year and a half ago. Through this proposal, we give the municipalities the opportunity, within clear limits, to decide for themselves whether they want to establish snowmobile loops. This is how we provide more local democracy. Through the bill, the government also complies with the Storting’s request to submit a proposal for amendments to the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses as soon as possible. Increased snowmobile driving could have negative consequences for natural diversity and especially for outdoor life. That's precisely why I've put great emphasis on hitting the proposal, so that snowmobile rides can take place without significant disadvantages for nature diversity and outdoor life. It is necessary to exclude loops from protection areas and national wild fauna and flora areas. Furthermore, loops shall not cause significant damage or disadvantage to reindeer operations. Municipalities shall pay particular attention to the noise and nuisances of outdoor life. Municipalities have obligations to take into account natural diversity, residential and cabin areas, landscapes, cultural memories and the cultural environment. Municipalities need to assess safety when setting loops, not only for snowmobile drivers but also for other users in the same areas. And it is a requirement after the bill that each municipality has to investigate the local effects on outdoor life and natural diversity. Just these rules help to ensure that outdoors and natural diversity are taken into account and to ensure that policy-makers and the population are informed about the impact of the proposals. Of course, we will follow the situation, but I believe that the municipalities will be responsible for their responsibility, and that the same municipalities will be concerned that it will not be the enormous negative consequences that Eidsvoll Holmås so painting describes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e779	I wasn't really going to take the floor, but there were then some violent attacks that came against the Workers' Party – and especially from the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, who makes himself a spokesman for the districts. I wasn't aware that the Drama was district, but there are different definitions of it. I do not think the representative of Hofstad Helleland and several others here have read the position and know what the Workers' Party actually means. It is claimed so much strange from this pulpit that I feel the need to clean up. The Labour Party trusts the municipalities. We're for local government. We are going to vote for it today. We've been for it all the time since we dealt with it in our group, and we've been thinking about it for a long time. It must be clear and clear. But what we're also for is having strict guidelines, and we're going to vote for that today. And as Aukrust's representative made it clear earlier today: we're skeptical to wild pleasure driving. We're for utility. So here you have to be clear what the Workers' Party is actually for. I think there has been a little premature debate, where one has tried to interpret others, and that Hofstad Helleland should rather read the setting. It is also recommended to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e786	I will not interpret what others think and have said in this case. When you sit and listen – I have done so far throughout the debate, and I thought I should thank you for a good debate – it is that the most important thing about this matter is to give confidence to those who have initially managed Norwegian nature over many years. The big picture sets a framework – if you discuss constitution – and we leave it to local democracy to do the job for us. That is what this matter is really about. We at Stortinget have a pretty clear framework for what the municipalities can do, and that's actually the case, even if it doesn't sound like that when you hear the debate, that the starting point of this case is that there is a ban on motor travel in the field. So that's the general rule. So the Storting has put some frames, it's pretty important, and you have to take that in. The Minister gets criticism, especially from the Greens/Greens/EFA, because she has no opinions. But the minister has stood up for his opinions. One cannot criticize the Minister for not agreeing with the Greens, I think that must be wrong. The minister has said what she thinks, the minister has said what opinions you have. They're good, they're about taking care of nature, they're about taking care of outdoors. It's about being a guarantor that we're going to get this done, here at Stortinget and with the minister. That is the position of both the Minister and the Right. I think in many ways that the rapporteur, as I have referred to earlier, said it in such a good way: we have many good experiences, and we have had many good experiences; it is just that there are others who decide what is good for us. As I said, and as I concluded my main point: if this case goes as we hope, the experience that this rapporteur has gained over 14 years of probation should now be taken into account, so that he can facilitate that it is also possible to run snowmobiles in his municipality – of course in such a way that those who would like to visit the municipality can do so and have peace and quiet and could go into nature – this is no problem, we are able to combine this. And as I said, 30 miles and 200 meters of width are 2.5 pst. of the area of the municipality. Then everyone understands that it is possible to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e801	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e804	I'm glad the Council of State admits that this law could have negative consequences for the environment. It's good that she does. That's what's been my whole point of conducting the resistance fight against this law that's here. It is also good that she states that the reason why this law is promoted is that you want to give the municipalities more autonomy. Then we see very clearly that once again we have an Environment Minister in a government that chooses to say that other considerations are more important than the environment. We've seen that in a number of things, this is the pattern. What I expected was, of course, an environmental minister who said that it is the environment that is the most important thing and that we have to take into account the environment. Instead, we see that it's nature bit by bit that's loser.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e811	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e814	I understand that it is difficult for the Workers' Party when the Aukrus representative accuses the Minister for the Environment of not being the Minister for the Environment – that the decision we are making today is so serious and a serious intervention in Norwegian nature. The next speaker, Eva Kristin Hansen, says: We do not agree, we support the government in almost everything, and we do not understand why the Workers' Party is under attack. This is certainly not easy to understand. It would have been interesting if the Workers' Party could clarify what they really mean. On the one hand, they're very much in favour, on the other hand, they're very opposed. It's like talking and trying to double communicate. I don't think it's very lucky to do that in this case. I think people expect a clear response from the Workers' Party, and this double communication will not last long. The local politicians of the Labour Party, and also their voters, I think I would expect an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e821	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e825	I don't know if it's because I'm talking trundish – if it's very hard to understand – but I can repeat what I said instead. The working party is for local administration within strict guidelines. The Labour Party has said that all along, and I do not understand that it can be seen as double communication. We believe that we have fallen into a balanced solution, in which we care for different concerns – both for those who want to run for good and for nature. We believe that we have balanced this matter well. So that's the other one that's more extreme in different directions. But I think we have to respect that people have different opinions, and actually listen when you explain what you mean. I think you should respect that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e832	Then I can thank you for the debate, with sharp contradictions. I think we're going to assume that it's not just a transfer of authority we're doing. It is also a decision that opens up much more scooter loops and a real change in Norwegian nature in the years to come. For my part, I think it's a pity that the majority has not been willing to do any tightenings that would make it possible to get a wider majority, even though our starting point was that we didn't want any change in the law at all. But as I said earlier, now, of course, comes the further work, which is significant. Now we're transferring a responsibility. All parties have a significant responsibility for ensuring both Norwegian nature and Norwegian outdoor life, regardless of the starting point of the various parties. There are now many decisions to be taken in Norwegian municipalities, and there are many decisions to be taken either in mountain governments or by private owners of land. This is an important day. It's a big decision. It's a big commitment. I hope that the result will be – over time – that we still have a strong focus on what is Norwegian outdoor life and natural diversity, and that we will not have to have a new debate in a short time, where we will have to take a big step back.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e841	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e857	The interpellation today has an extremely serious backstop, namely the bombing of the Høyblocka in the government quarter of 22 July 2011. It may be that for a long time we have fallen a little unnatural, that we have been withholding, in the broadest sense, from entering into debates on construction and its details. But now, when six ideas have been put forward on how to design the government quarter, and we are facing the next year's government making a city-form proposal and a state-regulatory plan, it is clear that it is natural, correct and necessary that the Storting is also discussing some of the main issues, the frameworks of development, without implying that we are going to go into detail here in future construction matters. Actually, I want to say that we're late. Even before the idea phase project was launched last year, after what was called the concept selection investigation was completed, when the government made its draft selection decision in May 2014 and chose to base the concept East with some absolute framework, it could have been useful with a more comprehensive debate and more awareness of what choices we made at the time. The first thing in the East Concept is that all departments outside the Ministry of Defence must be grouped together in a concentrated, compact development in the area within the East Concept, that the development should take place on the east side of Akersgata and across Møllergata, and that it should continue between Møllergata and Grubbegata, which are then closed, up to what is called Kristparken – for those who are localised there – and that there should be a construction area up towards the northeast. One point on which there was a lot of debate, namely the High Block, was clarified in the concept selection, and that was also the one point where one deviated from the draft selection investigation's recommendation, that the government went in to preserve the High Block and the open place between Akersgate and the High Block. After the Idea Phase proposals have been presented and presented, an evaluation committee shall review them. Thereafter, the government shall select some major actions called urban design proposals, urban planning schemes, and at the end of the year 2016/2017 a state regulatory plan shall be drawn up. It concerns streets, spaces, urban spaces, the urban environment and the framework around the buildings – such as location, height and volumes – but in that phase of course not down to construction programs. It will come back after that, when it will be launched for projects, etc., by 2019, when the government has announced that a proposal will be made for the Stortingen to start construction and to grant. Then all the road choices must have been made, and I believe that we most need to have some rounds in Stortinget before that time. I hope that the interpellation today can be a suitable start to it. There are particularly four issues I want to focus on at first stage today. One relates to the volume of construction. I have tried to look carefully at the exhibition that is now of the six ideas. It shows that there are very good, creative solutions made by these teams, but it also shows what it takes to have such a large construction program on such a limited area. At four of the options you go in height, at two you get to the top of the Højblock, but all of the six proposals have good elements that we should take with us, and as I hope we can get back to something later in the debate. The main question I want to ask is: is it going to be too massive no matter which of the ideas you choose? Commentary in the Evening Post, Per Anders Madsen, had a comment called «The Crushing Government Quarter», where he wrote that «the great profit of the proposals is that they show the problems of going on along the course of the day». I think it's quite representative of the first reactions. There is also a leader in the evening post today who is in the same situation, and architect and city planner Peter Butenschøn has written a chronicle in the evening post where he believes that no matter what concept and project you choose from these reworked proposals, it will become extremely dominant. The question is: can we reconsider whether there are opportunities to create less rigidity in the project in order to give more room to the planners through the urban design proposed by the government and through the state regulatory plan? There are several ways to do it. One way that has been brought up now is to let the departments that are located along the west side of Akersgata today, called R5 and R6 — there are eight departments there in total — stay where they are. It requires the fulfilment of safety requirements, including: the protection of the shell, as it is called, against other buildings, or the purchase of adjacent buildings, primarily the building of the VG. It also assumes that a solution is found for the line to bus line 37, which previously went to Akersgata, but now swings down Ring 1. If it's going back, you have to either figure out if you can accept a bus line in Akersgata within a good enough level of safety or if you can keep it going in a different trajectory. Another way to satisfy the question of more space and less rigidity in the project is to look at the possibility offered by the Concept East, which was one of the reasons for that choice: that it provides more flexibility in the future, i.e. greater expansion possibilities in the north-east, up in the Hammersburg area. It may well be that it is right to make use of a few more of the possibilities before you would have thought that you should look at it in the context of working with a government regulatory plan, and look at it in an earlier time perspective than has been suggested – towards 2064. The disadvantage of this is, of course, that you do not get the same reserve in the future and that you may be weakened in terms of the arguments for efficiency, interaction, security, etc. Another way to expand the planning area is to make use of the opportunity that the Municipality of Oslo has had to do, that is to give the main department of the Deichman library and the area around a function of the project. I would also like to address the question of safety. What is good security? What's that supposed to mean? It is a honorary word that has been laid down throughout the planning process, that it should be integrated into the solutions, in another language called ‘secured by design’. However, both the quality assurance and the design investigators have stressed that a necessary level of safety is not sufficiently defined either by law, regulation or by their mandate. Some of it's probably secret to them too. At the same time, it was determined by the ‘some’ of the interview that the absolute distance from general vehicle traffic would be doubled from a minimum of 20 metres to 40 metres. It seems to me unclear what, within the safety requirements, can be allowed by cafes, shops, exhibitions and services in this area. It's drawn into most of the idea phase projects, which create the impression of a good and lively urban space, but looking at the safety requirements that have been set, not being able to get into the buildings, different aspects of control at entrance parties, etc., it's hard to see where to put these nice offers for the audience. It is also emphasised in the draft selection inquiry and in the Concept East that there should be no proximity and transparency of buildings other than those in ministerial offices. There may be a risk that the project will then be carried too much towards a closed environment – words such as “fastening”, etc. have been used. – that it loses some of the civil imprint that is important to us. We're not going to be naive, but we don't have to let terrorists drive us into a social development and a urban development we don't want. We have to remember that we were going to face the terror with openness and democracy, which was fundamental to us after July 22, and it should also apply to how we handle this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e889	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Jan Bøhler for raising this important interpellation, and I believe that the representative shows in a fine way some of the issues that need to be discussed and weighed up. The task of travelling a new government quarter is of great importance to both the government and the city. We therefore place great emphasis on ensuring an open process and good debate on the new government quarter. The terrorist attack on 22 July 2011 resulted in extensive damage to several buildings in the government quarter. The government of Stoltenberg II therefore started work in August 2012 on the draft selection inquiry for future offices of the departments. The mandate of the investigator was a concentrated solution, bringing together the main weight of the departments in the current government quarter with neighbouring areas. Furthermore, the government of Stoltenberg II wanted a possible future location of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the government quarter to be included in the investigation. Some of the background to the desire to bring together the main weight of the departments were probably recommendations from the police that this is best from a security point of view. The draft selection inquiry was carried out in the summer of 2013, and the quality assurance, known as KS1, was presented in February 2014. Both the draft selection investigation and the quality assurance recommended that all departments – with the exception of the Ministry of Defence – be brought together in a new government quarter between Akersgata and Møllergata, with the possibility of extending northeast towards Hammersborg. A number of factors spoke for a meeting: interaction and efficiency in departments and government, security, flexibility and urban conditions. By bringing together the departments there will be no need to close streets elsewhere in the city. In other words, these streets can be reopened. Our government followed up the recommendations and decided in May 2014 to continue working on a new overall government quarterly – except for the Ministry of Defence – between Akersgata and Møllergata. We started with a concentrated development to get good land use in the existing government quarter. Important leadership for the further work was, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The high block and the open space towards Akersgata must be preserved. That means we're taking some of the old into the new. We opened for additions/extensions of the Højblocka and higher construction behind the Højblocka. The Y block, the S block and the R4 are torn. The large integrated works of art in the Y block shall be preserved. The Government Quartet shall be planned with ambitious environmental objectives and a high level of energy efficiency, so that planning is at the height of best practices for environmentally friendly construction and provides a socially viable and cost-effective resource use. Security is important and a general level of basic security shall be envisaged for all departments. Buildings and facilities shall be designed in such a way as to be open and inviting to the public and visitors. Few streets shall be closed for vehicle traffic. According to the estimates of the draft selection inquiry, 5700 jobs are used for the further planning of a new government quarter. The government quarter is in the heart of the capital. It should therefore be open and inviting. We place great emphasis on creating good urban spaces where people can thrive. In the same spirit, we stress that the government quarter should be as open and accessible as possible in the period of demolition and construction. Work on the regulatory plan started in 2014. The planning process is central to the ability of the population to comment. One of the objectives of the Planning and Building Act is to ensure transparency, predictability and participation of all relevant interests and authorities. State buildings have been commissioned to work with the regulatory plan. The first stage of this work is the preparation of a proposal for a planning programme. The programme shall describe the objectives, frameworks and premises for the planning, arrangements for participation and the need for investigations. The Programme was submitted for consultation and public review in January 2015. The consultation period was at the end of March and the programme is set by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. I remind you that it is the regulatory plan that clarifies the urban framework and specifies the use, protection and design of areas and physical surroundings within the government quarter. This involves the regulation of several quarters where the location, heights and volumes of the buildings, as well as the relation of the buildings to public spaces and street structures are to be clarified. The government wants a wide-ranging debate and good input into the work on the regulatory plan. Oslo Municipality is, of course, a particularly important actor. I attach great importance to involving the municipality in all parts of the planning process. Close contact exists between the Municipality of Oslo and the Ministry, at both political and administrative level. State buildings have completed the idea phase, which resulted in interesting proposals for how the new government quarter can be expected to be. The suggestions are now displayed in the High Block section. The exhibition is open to all and will contribute to a broad and good debate on the design of the new government quarter. I am concerned that a new government quarter both receives good urban qualities and is suitable for the government's work. It will be a good place to be for as well employees as for those who are going to move in the area. The draft terms of reference for impact assessment shall be sent to the general public and subsequently adopted by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. It is proposed that the regulatory plan be adopted at the end of 2016/2017. We've started work on space and function programs. This will continue until the autumn of 2016. In Prop.1 S for 2014–2015 for the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, Stortinget was briefed on the decisions taken by the government in May 2014 on the further work on the government quarter. In the nomination of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV promoted proposals for employee participation in the design of a new government quarter, the choice of office solutions, etc. I can inform you that we now have processes in place that give employees and their trusted extensive influence, among other things. through participation in a number of groups and selections in space and functional programme work. In addition to the work on the regulatory plan and space and functional programme, we are facing extensive planning and design activities. Later, cost estimates and other governance bases for the future government quarter will be developed. The plans shall then be quality assurance in line with the external quality assurance scheme of the Ministry of Finance for large-scale State investment. Then the whole matter is presented to the Stortinget in a separate proposal with a proposal to grant funds. I estimate that Stortinget can deal with the matter in its full scope in 2019. If construction starts in 2020, the government quarter could be completed around 2025. The size will be briefed on the progress and status of the work in the annual budget proposals. Proposals for appropriations for planning and design will then also be made. The new government quarter is a major project of great national importance. Openness, broad debate and good anchoring are necessary. I attach great importance to close dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo and other key actors, including: The Riksantik product. I also want a good dialogue with the Stortinget on this matter. I briefed the parliamentary leaders early in 2014 on the work on the new government quarter. I will also keep the Stortinget and the parties properly informed about the status, progress and important road choices of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e944	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good account of the process. As far as I'm concerned, to think again about the construction volume-building area ratio, there's an argument that I'd like to make, namely, the question of whether the plans are long enough, that is, whether we have sufficient expansion possibilities in the future, whether it's enough to think about 50 years ahead. The external quality assurances, which were quality assurances of what was then the concept selection study, showed that 5700 employees were planned in 2025, and that they would have the opportunity to increase to 6800 in 2064, but that they would reach the number of employees already 20 years before, a little after 2040, and that they considered 8 200 more realistic for what is needed in 2064, and that is what we should build on in terms of dimensioning. What I think is that we should think about and take into account additional areas, take into account enlargement opportunities, be realistic in the long term as well as in the long term in what is now to be done with regard to the state regulatory plan and the forward thinking. The question will then be whether to build even more concentrated and massively and high in the central area to allow for enlargement in the future. If it is excluded, there is also an argument to think again about whether you should continue to use R5 and R6 and make a different plan – consider whether this can be possible. Another question about thinking about the long-term and planning for the future here is collective solutions. It's clear that when the government quarter is due to be completed after the main phase, which runs to once after 2025, we will also have time to plan good collective solutions in the area. One factor that should then be taken into account is that a new inner-city T-Bahn tunnel in Oslo is to be built and planned for approximately the same period of time. There's an opportunity to have a station in the upper part of what's planned as East, that's the new government quarter. Several parties, both the Labour Party and others, have said that a high level of government funding will be contributed to the crucial inner city tunnel. It could increase collective capacity into the area, greatly improve accessibility and reduce the need for other elements of surface traffic. I believe that it should be taken into account and put in place a binding process or a concerted process between the new government quarter and the inner city tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e953	I believe there are important perspectives that Jan Bøhler draws into this discussion. Just that flexibility for the future organisation of departments is important. I think we need to have room for future governments in 10, 15, 20, 30 years to choose to organize themselves differently from what you're doing today. It has, among other things, consistency with the size of the departments and the size of the Directorates. Over several years, more has been chosen to be moved out into Directorates, but future governments may want to organize differently. This is precisely why it is so important to have this possibility of extension up to 2064. Part of this discussion is, of course, whether to use that piece at an earlier stage in order to have a less concentrated extension in the first period. What I also think we have to agree on is that today's distribution of departments around the city is not a good solution. There is no good solution for the city, for road users, for everyone walking and also no good solution for safety. There are too many streets in Oslo today that have to be partially closed because of the security around the departments. The streets can be reopened once more departments are assembled in the new government quarter. Then, too, in the decades to come, you will be able to find better and smarter ways of working, which means that you do not need the strong growth in the number of employees, but that you can manage to keep the number of employees at a lower level through new work practices and organisation. So we believe that the estimates made for the number of employees are realistic, but we have to take into account that future governments might want to organize themselves in a different way. So I believe that the flexibility in planning that the representative Jan Bøhler calls for is in today's plans. What will be the challenge of continuing to use R5 and R6 is that you can't open Akersgata. It has been a strong wish from Oslo city itself that you should be able to open Akersgata, among others. for public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e964	I want to start by thanking the representative Jan Bøhler for raising an important topic. I believe that for all of us who are born and raised in this city, what will happen in the government quarter of the next ten years will mean a lot, not only personally, but also from the jobs we have. At the same time, I am sure that both politicians and others in other types of jobs outside Oslo, also follow this debate closely. There is no doubt that when the government now adds up to close dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo, it is a wise way to go. I believe that both the City Council and the municipal politicians have many sensible ideas that should be taken into account in their work. I'm going to be careful to go into every option that's been taken up. Until then, the debate is still long, and there is a lot left to be investigated and checked. But I will still link some reflections to what both Jan Tore Sanner and Jan Boehler have recorded. I believe that the work we have seen from the government so far points to a good direction in which you listen to professionals and especially listen to the Municipality of Oslo and the local intelligence of our local politicians. I also think it was very good that you decided to keep the High Block and tear down the Y block. Call 1 today goes under the Y block, and as I understand it, you will then not stop Call 1, and the traffic can also go in the Akersgat from what has been up so far. If you look further at what has come from the government, you see that you add up to a combination of an open urban space and security for both the employees and the audience who are going to travel there. It has to be a public-friendly area. It must be a tourist-friendly area. It shall be a business-friendly urban space. And these things you see that it's going to be added up to go hand in hand. Then it's probably necessary, as added to it, that we think in height if we're going to get this combination and this open urban space. I also think it is very important, as my co-representative and colleague Mr Bøhler mentioned, that we insist that public transport should also have an important role to play in this, and I hear that the government has also thought about it. But we probably can't get away from a discussion at some point where we have to constantly look at the increased safety requirements. That's enough for us to have to think completely new about transparency in the meeting with more stringent safety requirements. Then, as I've said, height is one of the things we're going to have to look at. I also think it's very important that we gather the departments as much as possible, as it's being added up to now. I guess it's just the Department of Defense that's not supposed to be here. I think that's wise, because I think that this also opens other parts of Oslo's urban space that currently have slightly worse driving conditions, sometimes also closed, with bypasses etc. So I think that by bringing the entire government quarter together into one place through a good balance between open urban space and security, we get more efficiency in how we work between departments. I think it's good for those who are going to work there every day, as well as us who are going to rush in there now and then, that they're close together. So I also think that collecting them this way one place in the city opens the rest of our city to evolve in a better and more open way. This debate has just begun, and I look forward to what the Council of State is now inviting: a dialogue with both the Municipality of Oslo, us politicians from Oslo – and not least with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e981	I would also like to begin by commending the interpellant for putting a very important matter on the agenda. Designing the government quarter of the future is not only of great importance to the country's capital, which is to house the government quarter, but to our entire nation. And in addition to the fact that there are many important practical things that have to be considered, such as design, flexibility, working environment for those who are going to be there, security measures, etc., it is also important to consider that the buildings that come in this quarter have great symbolic value and should also say something about who we are as a nation, as Norway's main and top political leadership will be grouped together in this quarter. That is why, in the Progress Party, we are very pleased that the government and the Council of State have shown their effectiveness, and that processes are under way on how this should be designed. I also think the interpellant had a lot of good ideas about what's going on about future flexibility, and I think the answer from the government council was probably so good. What's important to think about is that even though we're going to take a stand on a lot of things and think about it, it's also important that there's a plan of progress here, and that we also think about the time to get to the goal. In that area, too, we in the Progress Party are pleased that the government and the Council of State have outlined some basic principles, values and thoughts for what this quarter will be like. This with transparency for the public, the fact that it should be friendly urban areas, is very important – that it is not perceived as a fortress that no one can enter – while at the same time ensuring the safety reasons that are important for the type of building to be located here. We in the Progress Party are also very pleased that the Council of State is as open as he is, that we are not in goal, and we should listen both to the Municipality of Oslo – which is a host – and also to the rest of the Storting, to the various parties, to various stakeholder organisations and to people who have recorded. So, of course, it'll create a lot of debate when you get a little bit further on the physical design itself, the look, etc. It is quite natural when construction as important as we are talking about here is going to get in place, that there is an engagement in the population – not just in Oslo, but throughout our country. But we believe that the look is subordinate to all the other important things that need to be put in place here. That is why we in the Progress Party want to signal that we are very concerned about what the Council of State is about, we look forward to progress here, and we also hope to be kept informed – as the Council of State has explained – on an ongoing basis, and that there is room for others to make their contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e994	After having been involved in shaping the city and following urban development in Oslo for the last 15 years, both as head of the urban development committee and as city council, and also earlier, from 2000, I shall guarantee that I will participate in the debate all the way in. I have to say that so far I do not believe that the process around the government quarter is very reliable. Here you started with a wrong order, i.e. When the draft investigation was made, there was one criterion that led – above all others – to safety, and then it was easy to predict that the solution would eventually be to place all the departments in the area where it is now proposed, behind the Høyblocka and towards Møllergata. What the parallel tasks show is that a concentration of the departments so strong that the dimensions are too large in relation to the size of the plot. That's the basic problem here. You have good architectural offices working on the parallel missions -- there's nothing wrong with it -- but there's too large a dimension, looking up at what's in the area, and the square meters that's there. Then it's wrong what the representative Keshvari says, that here you have to build a government quarter for the'main' politicians in Norway. It's not the government. The biggest building is the most important building in Oslo and the most important building in Norway – just like the others you have nearby: The relationship between the Stortinget and the Castle is important, and you have the Supreme Court. In Oslo, the City Hall is the most important, and the government and government quarters have to find their shape in relation to it, and it is essential to include that dimension in the discussion. The council is talking a lot about that you need an interaction, and the solution here is very close; it's that one rebuilds a new government quarter with the qualities it requires, but that one also uses what's today's R5, which is very close. One will have the same interaction with the different departments. There, like around this house, there are many times that can always be used, but there is the obvious solution. Security is about more than just securing construction, and then you should also learn from the Municipality of Oslo. For the Municipality of Oslo, a completely different approach to how to manage security, that is, to look at the whole area, is to look at how to control the entire area of the city. Because we have to remember that no matter how close you build the government quarter, you still have a security around this building, you have to have security around the City Hall, around the Castle and several other institutions in the central parts of the city. So one doesn't escape that thought. And then there's really just one problem, and that's the 37 bus, and you can handle it in Akersgata even if there's departments on both sides. So there's a lot of pointing out, and there's a lot of catchwords in the process: here you have to have an 'open government quarter'. But it is in the nature of the whole thing that the buildings, with the dimensions they now have, which become the most dominant in Oslo – no building with the dimensions will be more visible from large parts of the city than these quarters – break with all the thinking the city has previously had with its high-hue plans, where this is not just an area where you should have a significant high-hue. In all its nature, these buildings will not be available, unlike a Munch museum or as opposed to other buildings made in Oslo. There's going to be bureaucrats here, and there's going to be councillors. There's no general availability, you can drive into these areas. What Oslo has done in recent years – we have built a new Holmenkollbakke, we have a new Astrup Fearnley museum out on Tjuvholmen, we have a new opera, we have to build a new Deichmanska, we have to build a new Munch museum, and here we are building a whole new front in relation to what is the face of the city outside. We already have the City Hall – with the significance it has far beyond the borders of the city and the country, with the peace prize and everything – and then it is not right to build a new, dominant government quarter that overshadows this. I expect that with the dimensions that are now there, these plans will go into history, like the mansions of Karl Johan, or like the highway that was planned around the Castle.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1013	Every morning when I wake up and get up, I look across the city as I iron my shirt. Then the look always looks at the Højblock. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the State Council for its decision to leave the Høykloken. I would also like to thank the interpellant who, through its interpellation, helps to involve the Storting in a way that I think is very positive, that we can have this dialogue with the Council of State. I want to draw out two-three points that I think are extremely important in the further process. One is that it is incredibly important for this process to go further, that the Municipality of Oslo – not just the City Council, but the entire city council and its various deportations – are part of the dialogue with the government in this process. The size I expect will be involved in a real way. But I also think it is crucial, precisely because of what Ola Elvesuen says, that it is such an important part of the centre design and the city's face, what it will look like, that the city's politicians and the city's elected representatives should be involved, not just through the media and debate, but in a proper and good way. It's my appeal to the Council of State, and I'm sure the Council of State has thoughts about how it should be done in the best possible way. The second is that, just like Ola Elvestuen, I'm worried that we're planning a government quarter that's too massive – for reasons of security. I'm too safe. It is no disadvantage to gather different departments close to each other. But I don't think it can be crucial either to bring together all the different departments in one place in the city, as this process is now moving in the direction of. I've been in government myself, the Council of State sits in government itself, and we know that it doesn't matter if things are tight, but if it's not tight, there's no real disadvantage in everyday work either. Then I believe that the consideration of the city's best must be the leading. Then I'm worried about the size and massity of the solution that you add up to now – it gets too big. I think it's getting too massive, just like that. I believe that the city's population deserves a government quarter – a future planning of government departments – with an open, democratic and humane design. It is extremely important, as several of the proposals put forward, to take into account both light, accessibility, park features – everything that is important – to ensure that this becomes part of the city that the city’s population actually uses. Nothing is worse than things that are stone dead at night. It's a good thing to try to integrate and make sure that you have the best possible life – that you ensure that people use the city rooms. I agree with Jan Bøhler – now there is an investigation into the state of future collective solutions, future tunnels and possible coordination of this, possibly for local trains and also for the T-Bahn, and there is no doubt that it is important for both the municipality and the state to look at these things in the context of this process. The last thing I think it is important to stress is this: one of the major limitations on the possibility of planning is the traffic on Ring 1. I would like to ask the State Council to take an extra round both with the Municipality of Oslo and with the State Road Service to see if we really need Call 1, that it is the way it is today, or if it is possible to cope in a different way, which could trigger a much better future solution to the government's situation than what we see today. I'm just saying that you should open that book and look at it, because I think it might turn out to be a good solution for the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1035	I would like to thank all the good speeches and good words of those who have spoken, and also for a positive signal from the Council of State when it came to flexibility in planning ahead, in particular what the Council of State said about one of the alternatives I mentioned to getting less stiffness and greater opportunities to combine building volume and construction area in a good way. He said that it might be that some of the expansion options that were intended to be used later could be phased in at an earlier date, and that it should be taken into account in the state regulation plan that you will be working with for next year. It would be very important and very good to make sure it can really be forward-looking, good solutions. In the debate, we may not have expressed the good elements of these ideas that are now out and presented, great enough justice. It's a very good situation that you can draw out different nice ideas, creative things that are in them, across the board, that it's not an architectural competition, but that you can supply yourself. If I were to comment on one thing, it's this thing with the height of the project. We have two options among the six main ideas that add up to a more horizontal organization, as they call it, that you don't go so much in height, but you put the building mass more horizontally and stay at the height max with the High Block, also to give the High Block the role it should have in the area. I believe that, among other things, one of the ideas that have park on the roof and park between there has interesting concepts. It has been said that it will be very closed, but I also think we should be open to the thoughts that lie there. And in the case of monumental: I agree with Keshvari, we build something important for the nation, a symbol for the nation. But monumental must not be loud. Monumental might also be a combination, which I think lies in a couple of options. So I also think in the future debate we should provide the good elements of the ideas more justice, but they show above all that you get into trouble with the volume of construction and the area, and I hope the Council of State will focus on that input from several of us here in the debate. What I would like to see more clarification around is whether security will trump everything, that is, whether it's true that these fine drawings of cafes, exhibitions, Internet restaurants, etc. which has been drawn up in the concepts, can be realized within the government buildings, or whether the security reasons will indicate that one cannot have it inside the buildings... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1049	Then, unfortunately, speaking time is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1052	Yes, there's a lot to say, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1057	Let me start by saying to the representative Jan Bøhler that there are several opportunities to have both dialogue and discussion and to make recordings of this important project. I would like to stress that it is important for me and for the government that we have openness and good dialogue with all the different actors. That's why we chose this idea phase rather than an architectural competition. Many wanted to go directly to an architectural contest. We said no, we wanted the idea phase, because we wanted to make the perspectives, the possibilities and the constraints visible, and we wanted the debate, as we have now. I will confirm to the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås that both I and my department have good dialogue with the Oslo municipality at different levels, both politically and administratively. It's absolutely crucial in this question, because it's in the heart of Oslo. So that's how we have to take safety into account. We need to ensure that those who work in the departments can have a safe job, that those who visit the departments can have a safe job – and of course the government as well. But there are other perspectives that are also important in this. Good jobs are important. That is why we have a good dialogue with the employees. Good urban spaces are important. I believe that these ideas show that it is possible to get good urban space in the new government quarter. Cooperation between ministerial staff and the government is also important. In addition, by bringing together the departments, you can open other streets in Oslo, which are now partially closed. Let me again stress that the plans we are now working on provide flexibility and space for the final plans that will eventually be put in place. Both in time and in the area, there is flexibility. This means that the discussions that are taking place, the debates that are now taking place, can also be taken into account when drawing up the final regulatory plan. Then the time perspective here is important – as the representative Jan Bøhler had in mind – that we have to think in at least a 50-year perspective. We must give future governments room for action in order to organise the state differently from what we have chosen today – as the size of departments versus directorates. We also have to take into account that you can work in a smarter way, which means that you don't need the growth in the number of bureaucrats in the departments that some of the forecasts have shown. But once again, this was a useful start, and we're going to continue to have good dialogue on this important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1076	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1082	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Although there is only one matter to be voted on and four proposals, I ask the representatives to follow closely. I'll try to guide us through. Should someone find out that they are correct, it must be said from here and now, not in two days.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1090	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Eva Kristin Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, by Odd Henriksen on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament 4, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1106	President! It's not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1111	Are those dark screens? Are there any more who have dark screens? You have to press it once – click on the lock at the top. - It doesn't help to hit!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1118	No, I can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1123	You can't do that? We'll have to fix it technically. If you can sit in the Council place, you'll be fine. Try the State Council place! [[Laughter]] You have to press it, press in. - Here it comes! There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 35 L concerning amendments to the Motor Traffic Act in Lands and Watercourses etc. [[2014-2015]] sent back to the government.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1146	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a sanction regime for municipalities that are violating the law on motor travel in the outland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1198	The Socialist Left, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1211	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new second sentence of Section 4a of the second paragraph is replaced by the following: in the municipalities of Finnmark and Nord-Troms, the authority also includes access to the requirement to allow driving out of the open on ice to fall.’ [[municipalities of Kvænangen, Kåfjord, Lyngen, Nordreisa, Skjervøy and Storfjord]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1228	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on motor travel in fields and watercourses etc., the third paragraph of Section 4a, the first and second subparagraphs, and the new sentence 3 and 4 shall be replaced by the following: As a general rule, the loops shall be placed close to existing road networks, including unbroken snow-covered forest road. Such loops shall, as a general rule, be used for feeding and commercial purposes. In particular, if the municipality does not do so, justification must be given. The loops shall not be placed in protected areas, proposed protected areas or wild areas or in the major converging areas of national or regional importance for winter free air. The loops shall not be harmful or detrimental to reindeer management or to native species or habitat types and shall not require any terrain attack.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1253	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1334	The Socialist Left, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will now support the recommendation subsidiaryly after the parties' primary position under proposal No. 1 was rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1349	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1363	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1396	It's going to add up to V. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1412	It shall be added to II and III. The Socialist Left, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1426	It shall be weighed over I and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1436	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-07.ana.ud267e1448	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
