ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e82	Representatives Ingebjørg Amanda Godskesen, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, Sverre Myrli, Hans Andreas Limi, Morten Wold, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Tor André Johnsen, Ruth Grung, Helge Orten, Pål Farstad, Geir S. Toskedal, Elin Rodum Agdestein, Frank J. Jensen, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Tom E.B. Holthe, Ingerd Schou and Line Henriette Hemdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Tone Damsleth, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Knut Storberget from 3 February onwards and until further notice by the Right-wing Group on the sick leave of the representatives Sylvi Graham and Mette Tønder, both from 3 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Thore Vestby and Kjartan BerlandFor Hedmark County: Lasse Juliusen
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e182	Thore Vestby, Kjartan Berland and Lasse Juliussen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e187	I am delighted to present a proposal on behalf of Oskar J. Grimstad, Odd Henriksen and myself for a change in the law on motor travel in the outland and watercourses. Temporary provision on snowmobile loops in former experimental municipalities. I ask that this be dealt with according to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 39c.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e194	The President shall take note of the request and return to the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e208	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e219	We are now going to deal with the long-term plan, and I want to start by commending the government and the government for providing a long-term research and higher education plan. It's long-awaited, and a lot of researchers and principals are happy that we're now doing what many people have dreamed about. It was Kristin Halvorsen, Minister of Knowledge of the Stoltenberg Government, who introduced this as part of the research report in spring 2013. The size joined such a long-term plan, although the Right in an annotation form was questioning the utility of such a plan. The joy shown by many in the submission of the plan together with the State budget may also be due to the uncertainty associated with whether this government wanted such a plan, as it is also not mentioned in the government’s platform. Building good research environments requires long and systematic investment over time. The environments that we know today do very well in the world context are at least 15-20 years old. Most of them are older. And if you want to get the most out of our resources, it's a good idea to see as much in context as possible. It concerns investment in knowledge building, research infrastructure, the number of scholarship holders and places of study. This predictability must at the same time build up within the areas of activity identified in the Research Communication, which are even more concrete in the long-term plan. Seas, climate and environment, a good and efficient public sector developing better welfare services, technological investment and business research is what we find in this plan, and that is very good. The building of life sciences at the University of Oslo and the construction of the new Ocean Space Center in Trondheim are good examples of interplay between thematic initiatives and infrastructure. This is also good and gives the sector more predictability. Nevertheless: The working party believes that the long-term plan suffers from three major shortcomings. It is not concrete enough, it is deficient in education, and it ignores other important processes in the sector that are taking place and that we can read about daily in the newspapers, which are about structure and funding. The Labour Party is not in disrepute with the sector in its criticism, as expressed by the Council of State in Today's Business Today. Like us, the sector was satisfied with what was coming in the harvest, but demanded more. The University and Higher Education Council, at its hearing, said: ‘Recruitment recruitment plans are good, but we will stress that the need is greater’. Abelia said: ‘We support the two construction projects, but call for a larger plan for which construction projects should be prioritised in the longer term and how they should be completed.’ Researcher’s association expressed its opinion: ‘In order for the proposed plan to become an important tool for the education and research sector, it is necessary to address some important shortcomings.’ That's what came out in the hearing among many other recordings. Let me go into the three points against which the Workers' Party objects. Firstly, the long-term plan is not sufficiently concrete. It lacks mention of study places, despite the fact that a unanimous staging was crystal clear on such an order. It has no list of buildings that should be built in the coming years. Except for the two buildings that I have now mentioned, there is nothing. 500 new recruitment positions and 400 million. Infrastructural kr is announced in the period 2015-2018. But then I would like to remind you of the front page of the plan, where the years 2015-2024 are the plan to apply. What about other buildings in the sector? They are not mentioned. What about the rehabilitating needs of the sector, which the Riksrevision has addressed as a matter of its own in Stortinget? One third of the building stock is in poor condition, especially construction for which the Ministry of Knowledge is responsible. And in order for these buildings to continue to be used, a significant part of the space for action goes to the institutions to maintain these. In the case of recruitment positions: According to information provided by the Nursing Association during the hearing, a total of 500 new jobs are needed during this period to ensure research-based training for the important professional profession of nursing. The government has added up to 500 in total. Then it gets too thin. The working party believes that the plan would have improved if it had included a prioritisation of nationally important research infrastructure, as well as a plan on how to meet future knowledge needs both within and outside the sector. We also ask for more information on the status and further development of the state of higher education and research in Norway, such as Norway. Annual R & D work per 1 000 persons employed, share of the higher education population, R & D effort per capita, R & D effort related to mainland GDP, innovation in business and development in publications and citations. The other thing missing is more in higher education. I would like to remind you that the message is called the Long-term Research and Higher Education Plan. It is possible that the Workers' Party should understand that education is implicit in everything that is mentioned in the plan, as the Council of State has repeatedly insinuated, but in that case more than us have not understood that education is widely mentioned. Then I choose to quote NSO, Norwegian student organisation: ‘The plan provides research, while higher education seems forgotten.’ It is evenly above the feedback we have received. Research and higher education are closely linked. It is precisely a prerequisite for high quality education that these tasks are carried out in parallel. One of the reasons is of course that it is among the students we find tomorrow's researchers, but an equally important reason is that close links between research and education give students an understanding of how research is done and how it can be used. Ensuring that Norway has workers who are able to understand and put new knowledge into practice must be a key element in focusing on research and development. That task has been neglected by the government. This morning the Study Barometer was presented. The results there could have been better. There is little doubt that the quality of education in some institutions, both at universities and higher education institutions, could be better at all, and a broad and systematic approach is required to raise the quality of education. When such analysis and proposals for action are lacking in this plan, the overall plan is weakened. In addition, the Stortinget has decided that we should have a report on quality in higher education — a proposal for which the Right was the driver. Until now, the Council of State has not been willing to respond to such a message or not. At least this message does not satisfy the Stortinget’s request in the previous period. A third weakness in the notification has become even more topical since the Committee's submission. We are facing several mergers in the sector. Last week it became known that NTNU wants to merge with three colleges, and that in a type of model that has been unknown so far – namely, with satellites geographically quite far away from the major university. Many others are in the same situation. North Norway will probably be left without any colleges, only with two universities. How many colleges are left? What does that mean for research, for education? What should be the division of roles between these institutions? It's unclear. To achieve the goals we have in this field, how does this new structure fit in? None of this is affected in the plan. In addition, the Government has notified an assessment of a new financing scheme. The conclusion is to be presented in the spring, but not as important as how universities and colleges are to be financed, is affected here – initially naturally in and separately for a long-term plan, given that everything else is fixed. But there is a danger that this plan will quickly expire when so much happens in parallel. The majority in Stortinget – all except the government parties – believe that the value of the long-term plan is weakened by the fact that both structure and funding are unclear when Stortinget deals with the plan. Research and knowledge development is nothing without important researchers and other professionals. The Norwegian Academy is facing a generation change. It will provide challenges to fill gaps for skilled professionals, but it also provides an opportunity to solve problems that have occurred in the sector over time. I am thinking first and foremost of the high use of temporaryity. There is a struggle to recruit the best among young people in Norway. Good youth is longing for. With a high degree of temporaryity, the academy is not as attractive as you would think, and as we would like. Not least there are some capable women who opt out of the sector, although they are absolutely good enough to be able to make a long career there. But they choose away because the uncertainty and unforeseeability become too incompatible with a stable family life. This is therefore also an opportunity for targeted action on how to recruit more women into academia, not least into top-level research positions, where men are still in an overwhelming majority. Over 60 pst. of the students are women, only 25 pst. by the professors are women. But there are also other challenges to recruitment. The government has talked a lot about world-leading research, and there are some researchers coming to Norway. Good conditions for scholarship holders are one reason, good nature and good family life are perhaps other reasons. But many are retreating — why? What can we do to make more people longer? This plan should be better used to create an overall strategy on this very thing, so that we can build world-leading environments. In a research debate, it should always be remembered that we agree that greater demands must be made on the results of research efforts, but we must be careful that policy becomes too instrumental. Research must never become something that is expected to achieve concrete and short-term policy objectives. Knowledge has a self-esteem and thus the knowledge society has its own justification, and it is particularly important to ensure the freedom of fundamental research in the future. I take up the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e284	Then the representative Marianne Aasen has taken up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e289	By June 2013 at the time of the examination of the previous research report, the red-green parties considered that it was not appropriate to set a target of ambition for investment in research and development. One of the first Workers' Party's contributions to the research policy, which was run by SV for eight years, was to eliminate the timing of the 3 pst. goal. Already in the context of the examination of its first research report, Will for Research, in 2009, this tying was removed without any specific justification. In the long term schedule setting, the beep has now changed. Now the Workers' Party supports the timing of the 3 pst. goal. The Labour Party clearly believes that it is right to have a long-term objective of increasing investment in research to 3 pst. by 2030 as long as they are in opposition, and it is in stark contrast to their lack of ambitions when they themselves were in government. What's made the Workers' Party turn around and realize that 3 pst. of GDP should go to research by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e296	We've always had a long-term goal of 3 pst. to go to research, but we've varied in number fixing of years, that's absolutely right. I think it's much more interesting that there's a lack of a plan for how to do this, because the Right has been ready for this earlier, and the Right now sits with the Council of State. If we are to achieve this, it means far more for Norway, which initially has such a high gross domestic product, where the oil and gas sector is excluded from this target, and where we have an industrial structure that makes it far more demanding than in our neighbouring countries with which we want to compare. So what's interesting for everyone here in the hall must be how we're going to achieve this, instead of discussing whether it's 2020, for which the intermediate parties went into 2030, for which the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed, or an indefinite goal, for which we agreed, but on which we now support the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e303	The Labour Party has criticised this plan for being too thin in terms of the number of pages, and in particular in the field of higher education. The chairperson of the Committee has even set it up perm against the national transport plan in order to arrive at this point, even though there has been a broad consensus that the plan should not be a national transport plan. It is a pity, however, that the representative of the Aasen and the rest of the opposition do not see how closely research and higher education are linked to the plan, and it is interesting to read the committee position when you know what the criticism of the Workers' Party in this field has been. It says very little about what more should have been about higher education. Very few objectives, strategies or visions are drawn from the Labour Party. In their proposals, they simply ask that the government come back with something at some point. Can the representative explain whether this is a sign of an idea-drying, complaint for the sake of complaint or lack of faith in his own policy-making characteristics?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e310	I thank you for the question. It gives me an opportunity to explain why, and it is that in principle the Workers' Party believes that Stortinget should not conduct an investigation. When the message is as thin as it is, I believe that we need to send the ball back to the government and ask it to do the preparatory work that we have not intended to address to the government, namely that they should prepare matters, they should investigate, and they will make concrete proposals that the Stortinget will decide on. That we should sit on the committee and write down pages – we have written a lot of pages, and actually more than what you could expect when you see how thin this message is – and fill in a lot of education, I think, in principle, is something we should stick to for good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e315	When you go from position to opposition, maybe the burden of a department over itself makes you get some new ideas. I hope that the Workers' Party has got some new ideas, and in particular I hope that some new tools have been put in place in relation to what the representative said. Now I, who lives in the Old Town, feel that all the museum buildings on the Tøen are being closed, because the maintenance has been so bad for so many years. We experience a whole sector of temporaryity, and you like to fill the streets here to stop the short temporaryity, while the long temporaryity gets rolling within the two sectors. Now the Workers' Party sat in government for eight years and could have controlled it. I see that you now realize that there are many weaknesses especially in these two fields. But do you have any new ideas about how to solve the challenges? Or is it just to criticize when you're in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e322	There are a lot of things that we're going to address in this message to solve some of the challenges. It's much more concrete, and I can see that the left of my joy is involved, but not everything. They also retreat a little bit, for the sake of government parties, obviously. As far as museum buildings are concerned, it's about economics. It remains unclear how the financial instrument, which we will deal with later in ours, will be. But it is clear that the museum buildings are important for the major universities, which are responsible. As for the temporaryity, our government did a lot on temporaryity in the university and higher education sectors. As a result, the temporary period went down, which the Council of State has also confirmed that it did. Then we get to follow on – because now this is the official law sent out to the hearing – and see if there is a lead to pursue. I think we should use a lot of tools to see if we get the temporary, which is unfortunate, also in that sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e331	I think we have to look at the ways in which we finance universe building. We've lifted it many times in the last few years. But it's obvious that the problems we have today are because they have been neglected for a long time and have not had politicians who have been willing to prioritize them. So my question is really whether you see any new mechanisms. Does the Workers' Party have any new ideas about how to create mechanisms to ensure that the buildings do not have to be fought through construction for construction in this hall? Do you have any new mechanisms? Are you willing to be radical to reduce overtime use in higher education, or do you think you were driving very well when you crashed? - Or a little marine critique, maybe?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e341	The Labour Party does not believe that we can create more money with new mechanisms. You have the money you have, and it's about priorities. I believe that this sector is an important priority. We have to make sure something in the future as well. The target of 1 pst. public funding for research and development is such an instrument which will also improve the performance of the buildings. But in my post I just brought up this with the maintenance of old construction, which is not part of the message at all, but which both the Left and the Workers' Party wanted in the research message. There is nothing about the escalating plan for new buildings either. That, I think, is a long way to go, along with enough money, will be what will solve the construction challenges that Trine Skei Grande addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e351	When I began to engage in policy seriously, it was based on a burning commitment to higher education and research. It was based on the certainty that the basis of our future well-being is that we have a good education system, and that we are able to stimulate researchers to give their utmost in the fight to find answers to unresolved questions – answers to questions of vital importance to our society and business, which will once again benefit new students in education. My commitment also involves my own experiences from my time as a researcher at the University of Oslo, in the United States and at SINTEF and as head of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and at the Education and Research Environment at Simula. Knowledge is the oil of the future for Norway, said Erna Solberg in his first New Year's speech as Prime Minister. In order to ensure jobs and well-being in the future, Norway needs higher education and research of better quality than today. We need to put in place a strategy for investment and structure for tomorrow's knowledge society that responds to our overall national needs – not just today, but many years ahead. We need to ensure that the best skills are available to Norwegian social and work life, and then we need to have educational institutions of international format. We need to ensure that Norway succeeds internationally, not least in the new EU research and innovation programme, Horizon 2020. It will provide Norwegian environments with valuable access to knowledge and competence. Public spending needs to be strengthened in order to keep pace with developments in other countries. We also need to stimulate increased investment in research and innovation in business. More than today, public investment should be directed towards the research environments we know to lead internationally, while maintaining a good academic base. Thus, in response to this, the government has promoted a long-term research and higher education plan drawing on common research and higher education objectives and priorities for the first time in history from a 10-year perspective. The overall objectives of the plan are: strengthening our competitiveness and innovation capacity to address major societal challenges in developing excellence in professional environments We need more top-class professional environments to develop Norway into an innovative nation, which can ensure our welfare society even after the oil adventure is over. The government has the ambition to develop more world-leading professional environments, and then the question is simple: how are we going to get it? The answer is, of course, not as simple, but the Long-term plan provides some overall objectives and priorities, while containing concrete escalation plans and growth in appropriations for both higher education and research. The Government announces concrete actions during the period 2015-2018, such as: to establish many more recruitment positions to step up funding for research infrastructure to strengthen Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation The plan takes into account the government's objective of making research 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. To succeed, however, it is not enough to give more money – we also need clear goals for what we want to achieve and how we will succeed. When we join the government's proposal, that means we can expect a rise of 1.4 billion. equipment, recruitment positions and enhanced European research cooperation. In addition, it implies an obligation to increase research appropriations each year until we reach the objective that public expenditure is equal to 1 pst. GDP. In addition, important construction projects, new life sciences, pharmacy and chemistry are prioritised at the University of Oslo and upgrading the Marine Technology Centre, the Ocean Space Centre in Trondheim. Both of these buildings underline the commitment to higher education, research and development and are fully in line with the government's thematic fields of activity. The new construction in the Gaustadbeck Valley here in Oslo will contain much of what the University of Oslo wants to be world leader in the future. This will allow for a pooling of different research environments in life sciences. Life science is a form of science in which living organisms such as plants, microbes, animals and humans are studied in a broad sense with different scientific approaches derived from subjects such as biology, chemistry, physics, pharmacy, molecular biology, informatics, medicine, nutrition and odontology. According to the President of the University of Oslo, this initiative is an important field for the education of students, and it gathers much of the knowledge we need in society in the future. Such a building will also be important for business in the future, where we are talking about a knowledge-based bioeconomy, which will be much greener than today's Norwegian economy. There's reason to do some reflections. We have plenty of evaluations that point to the challenges of today's education and research system. In 2014, the Swedish Research Council received a report prepared by Swedish professors Mats Benner and Gunnar Öquist, pointing out that Norwegian research is too marked by mediocrity and lack of ambition. A lot of people might object, but I think that's reason to listen. In order to succeed in research policy, the research system consisting of political governance, the research funding part and the performing entities must all work in the same direction. The report by Benner and Öquist underlines the importance of declaring high ambitions on quality at all levels, the importance of open recruitment and career care and the importance of further developing strong institutions with strong academic leadership. The long-term plan responds to this. We have enough sample reports and evaluations to point out that Norwegian higher education is not of sufficient quality. The message is that we are disseminating resources for research and higher education for the thin side. We have too many small and vulnerable professional environments offering the same education. As a result, many small institutions put in place strategies to compete with each other instead of cooperating. In order to improve quality, the government has therefore started to go through the structure of the university and higher education sectors. The objectives and measures set out in the long-term plan provide a good basis for the necessary changes in the higher education sector. In January, the government received proposals for a new funding system for universities and colleges from an expert group. These proposals will play an important role in the government's work on the announced call for proposals on the structure of the university and higher education sectors. Together, the interventions and objectives set out in the Long-term Plan and the Structural Communication will contribute to enhancing the quality of higher education and research in Norway. When the opposition in this Chamber, led by the Workers' Party's Marianne Aasen, expresses disappointment at the government's long-term plan, I believe that she is bombing quite strongly. I believe the Labour Party has more reason to be disappointed by its own efforts under the Red-Green Government, where words seemed to be more important than action. The Workers' Party was allowed to sit at the rudder of the Ministry of Knowledge for eight years — during a period of strong growth in public consumption without a corresponding growth in investment in higher education and research. Rather, there were few concrete steps to improve the quality of higher education and research. I cannot see that this is a claim that the long-term plan does not involve concrete commitments. In fact, it has been a long time since a document on research and higher education has been presented in the United Kingdom that has been as concrete as this. The government determines that the investments will be 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. Such an objective had already been removed by the red-green government in 2008. In addition, concrete obligatory escalation plans are described on key inputs involving 500 new recruitment positions, 400 million. kr in increased appropriations for research infrastructure and an increase of 400 million. kr to incentive schemes to stimulate Norwegian participation in the EU. In the long-term plan, the government sees higher education and research closely linked. Clear common objectives and priorities have been expressed. The plan is a clear shift in the direction of value creation, quality and the major challenges we face. Both the Research Council and the Academics have called the plan a milestone, while Unio has referred to it as both ambitious and concrete. The point is that we should create predictability and stable framework conditions for the sector, while taking into account that the world can look different in ten years' time. Therefore, we cannot lock ourselves to specific instruments for such a long period of time, neither in research nor in higher education. We have such an infinitely good starting point for success in the knowledge policy, but we need to combine the forces and strengthen the quality. In Norway, there are already good conditions for success, but we have to dry down some sharp priorities. The government has high ambitions, and that is why we have also seen a change of pace in policy where a good school, skilled skilled workers and the quality of higher education and research are among the government's most important projects. Since Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister in 2013, we have seen concrete action through strong budgets. Now we see that the government both invests more and makes concrete contributions to enhance the quality of our education and research environments. Faggot words are one thing, concrete action is another. That's what separates the clone from the wheat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e421	There is no doubt that the representative Kristin Vinje has a deep-felt commitment to research, but we must have been at various hearings on this matter, because the image of the reactions of the organizations presented by Kristin Vinje is contrary to what an overall committee heard when we had a hearing on the notification. Among other things, NSO leader Anders Kvernmo Langset said that if this had been an exam, the government would have been defeated. It's a pretty descriptive description, because this is a lost opportunity. Governments and large-scale stockpiles sometimes make long-term plans – we make long-term plans for rail, road and transport, we make long-term plans for defence, we make psychiatry plans and care plans, and we make a cultural promise – from which the government has quite rightly gone. It gives you an opportunity to plan and have an ambition. Why does this right do not use the possibility to create a similar holistic, predictable and strong research and higher education plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e428	Firstly, I would like to say that the general feedback we have received on this plan has been a source of joy, in fact. When there's such hearings, it's obvious that you're going to come forward and want what could be even better, and that's always the way it is. But I have heard a great deal of enthusiasm in all the environments that have been at the hearing, and so they have used the opportunity in the hearing to make proposals that can be even better. When it comes to taking advantage of the occasion, I will almost couple back: Why did the Workers' Party not use the opportunity to raise research and higher education when they themselves were in government for eight years? This long-term plan responds to how we should have an overall strategy, and to what priorities should be based from a 10-year perspective – which provides both higher education and research environments with an opportunity to achieve safe and good framework conditions in a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e435	I also think it is a more natural role-sharing that we are in government, and that Kristin Vinje is asking questions, and I am looking forward to hopefully getting the chance to do so in 2017. But now it is the Right who sits with the Department – and with a State Council that tries to make itself as invisible as possible, instead of leading the sector and setting ambitious goals. When more is said about a road map around Hönefoss in the long-term transport plan than it says about total higher education in the long-term research and higher education plan, it is no wonder that the sector is frustrated. There are no ‘beautiful’ comments – it’s a relief that a plan came at all, as the Right was originally against it, but disappointment that you’re not more concrete. Now, the research budget increased more than the total state budget when we were in government, much stronger than when the Right last time we were in government, so that we can also take that fight, but I repeat my question: why do you make such a complete announcement when this could have lifted the sector, raised the possibilities of the Council of State in budgetary conferences, and promised an overall commitment to research and higher education in a comprehensive and concrete way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e442	Firstly, I would like to say that this document is historical in the sense that it provides completely concrete, measurable measures to strengthen a sector that, as a whole, consists of environments in both higher education and research. It is the first time in history that such a concrete document is presented to the Stortinget as is done in this document. And then it's not that the thicker the document is, the more concrete and good it is – I'd rather say the opposite. When you make such a strategy, it's about being superior and pointing at some direction, and you don't have to control the details. But this document shows a direction. And as far as reception from external actors is concerned, I experience a completely different reality from what the Workers' Party's representative describes, rather a relief since the blue government came to power, where one sees a clear change of pace, both through increased appropriations and through clear actions. We have a process of both structural review, funding system and this long-term plan. A lot is happening in the sector, and investments are being high.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e447	I think the sector is happy to have a ten-year plan, because that's what they wanted. I would also have been very happy to ski, if I had wanted to, but I would appreciate to have ski bindings. I wonder if the representative could explain how she believes that the long-term plan responds to how higher education should improve. ‘High international quality’, the plan says — we want higher education of high international quality. Can the representative define for me what is in the plan that says what the higher quality actually consists of?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e454	The plan we have here, looks at the development of stronger professional environments as one of its tasks, and we have had a lot of evaluations and reports over the last few years that point to the fact that unfortunately we have too many small and vulnerable professional environments in this country, in our various educational institutions. This plan raises the need to strengthen the professional environment, and of course it will apply both to the quality of studies and to research opportunities. So raising professional environments and prioritizing professional environments as a field of action in the future will improve the quality of both education and research, which naturally belong closely together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e459	I believe the representative confuses the ‘suck of relief’ with the cheer of this polite sector. After a government platform in which there was nothing about a long-term research plan, there was a great deal of uncertainty in the sector about one would come with it at all. Then it came, and then the cheer came. Then one began to look at the contents. It's just to look at the listening statements and to be present on the listening rounds, and there's no cheer; it's quite solid criticism from this polite crowd. Special education has been given hard support, which the representative does not at all object to. Just to clarify what the government wants with such a plan – where education is almost not compulsory in the plan: the level of ambition for research is that one should become a world leader, while the level of ambition for education is that there should be good education. How does the representative view the creation of a world-leading, well-educated research?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e467	This long-term plan seeks to strengthen professional environments to become much stronger, and a professional environment consists of both educational and research environments. So I would say, the first thing Torbjørn Røe Isaacen did when he became the Council of State – or at least after getting a little warm in the sweater – was to clarify that a long-term plan for research and higher education should be made. So there's not been any nervous vibrations in the sector for a long time considering that question. Then a message has been delivered that mentions research and higher education in an integrated way. If you read carefully through the plan, it says that professional environments need to be strengthened, as well as research and education. So it seems like there's just a stiff mind in the minds of many people who read, that they can't see the grip that's done: that when you strengthen a professional environment, it's about both higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e479	When Bishop Johan Ernst Gunnerus together with Schøning and Suhm founded the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences in Trondheim in 1760, a new era began in Norway. Before this, largely Norwegian research — or in the smallest research carried out by Norwegian professionals — had been carried out in our neighbouring country, which was a few years ahead of us in this field. The Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences created a revolution in which the academic career path was made known and accessible to more than theologians and a few other selected professional groups. When we got our first university, the University of Oslo, about 50 years later, after the establishment of DKNVS, we got the opportunity to connect academic education and research, as we do today. From the bishop and naturalist Gunnerus via e.g. The mathematician Abel, the chemist Onsager, the archaeologist Heyerdahl and until today there has been some development. Now, 250 years ago, while you've been arguing about Newton's three laws, today you're researching vital medicine, Alzheimer's, whether it's actually possible to print 3D a whole house. The situation is slightly different today, including in Norway. It's been a strength for our environments that we've been together in this room about the overall leadership, the problem description and the diagnosis, even though the medicine sometimes bears the mark of a little different solutions. The long-term plan is a milestone for research and higher education, which we have agreed to have. For the first time, a plan providing predictability and long-termity to education and research communities and businesses is presented. The government has defined three overall objectives for this plan: to strengthen competitiveness and innovation, to meet the major societal challenges and to develop excellent professional environments. In terms of competitiveness and innovativeness, it is a well-known matter that we will never – at least not in the near future – be the cheapest in Norway, but we can be the best. Both industry and the public sector depend on this. In a new economic everyday life without the oil and gas sector being the ultimate valuer, business needs to find new solutions and innovate products to maintain jobs and strengthen value creation. For the public, innovation is essential to meet an increasingly demanding market. Solving the major societal challenges is about being ahead of development. We know there's going to be an older wave. We know that we have – and most likely will – even greater challenges with security and preparedness in the future, and we know that access to food and drink worldwide will be challenging. Common to these is that they can be solved, just as they've been solved before. Research and development and innovation will be crucial for managing this together with the education system. What someone has criticized this plan for is that it is so-called one-sidedly concerned with world-leading environments and excellent quality. Of course, that's not true, but it has a completely deserved place in the plan. As I mentioned at the beginning of the article, we largely agree on the diagnosis of research and higher education across the blocks. Part of this diagnosis is clear that we have too many small and too many fragmented environments that provide research and education at an unsatisfactory level. High quality has to be a continuous measure. If we are to attract the best professionals, including foreign workers, and prevent too many of our own from moving to more exciting environments abroad, this is vital. The government announced that it would step up funding for research and higher education within six long-term priorities. It is also announced that R & D will increase the appropriations for R & D up to 1 pst. of gross domestic product and that, with today’s outlook, it will be reached around 2020. In addition, the objective of 3 pst is introduced. GDP should go to R & D by 2030. It was a goal that the previous large-scale majority removed, and I am happy to record that they are now regretting it. To get to all of this and to make sure that it's not just nice numbers and happy parties, it has to be made concrete. How are we going to achieve these objectives? Yes, by increasing recruitment positions by 500, by increasing the allocation to research infrastructure by 400 million. and by multiplying the appropriations to ensure high and good participation in Horizon 2020. We're on it. The 2015 government budget follows the long-term plan by around 800 million. kr. The real growth rate in research and development appropriations is 4.5 pst. at the top of a good R & D year in 2014. Never before have we been closer to the 1 pst. goal, and even closer we're going to get in the years that come. One of the main actions launched in the plan is a strong and absolutely necessary stepping up of the STIM-EU and other incentives to increase the return share from the world’s largest research competition and cooperation, Horizon 2020. In order to achieve that ambition, we have to increase participation by over 60 pst. compared to the 7th Framework Programme. Then we must have leading environments that compete with the very best, and where the environment must have conditions that enable us to participate in the EU arena. Unfortunately, the last element has not been the case for the research institutes until now. SINTEF and the Norwegian Research Council have estimated that the incentive framework needs to be increased by 350 million. kr to achieve the objective of Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020. Fasit in the plan is 400 million. kr. The plan points to two particularly important buildings in the period that will be prioritised, namely the Life Science Centre in Oslo and the Ocean Space Centre in Trondheim. These are two very important buildings, which many people have talked about, but with which something is finally happening. These buildings are fully in line with the objectives set out in the plan, and will be very important in order for the escalation and long-term sustainability to be realised. The plan has received criticism from the opposition to be too thin. It's a special form of criticism. The red-greens presented a research report in 2013, which was longer than this action plan, but it did not contain a single concrete escalation. We are able to achieve very clear priorities and targets for the sector on just under 50 pages. It's a force, not a weakness. In particular, the criticism has come that higher education is devoted too little space for research. It's a shame that the opposition can't see these more in context than what you're actually doing. Research and higher education are in most respects inextricably linked — including in this plan. When we say we're betting on world-leading environments, it's about both research and higher education. When we focus on enabling technologies, it's about both research and higher education. When we implement a historical effort on the number of recruitment positions, it affects both research and higher education. This is a historic day. It is an ambitious and good plan that will be adopted. Finally, the sector shall have the long-termity and predictability it deserves. Now you can finally start looking forward. The knowledge society is on its way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e513	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e516	In the debate on the 2013 Research Communication, the Progress Party underlined the need for time-consuming promises, and at that time they would have a model according to national transport plans. The Party's representative, Tord Lien, underlined: ‘Having a goal without tying it up is like sending a big Christmas card with a wish for Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.’ There is not a single fixed-term objective or to the extent that the numerical target for higher education is included in this long-term plan. Higher education is almost not mentioned. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are today promoting proposals for government to present its own high-quality report on quality in higher education. This proposal was the Progress Party for 2013. If I am not completely wrong, the Council of State has now also notified a report of educational quality. That is entirely in line with our proposal. Why does the Progress Party vote against our proposal for such a plan, for which they were previously in favour? And why do they vote against our proposals to increase the quality of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e528	The reason why we are voting against this is that we feel that there is more butter in bottle than is necessary when you already know that such a big message will be sent to Stortinget during 2017. We have now been told that such a big message is coming, and I am looking forward to it being processed in Stortinget. But then you can't say that there's no digitization for higher education. If you use the glasses of the Workers' Party, you can see it like this – if you don't see research and higher education together. But research and higher education are inextricably linked – it is also in this plan. Then it's wrong to say it when, for example. is a public research effort target of up to 1 pst. of GDP by 2020. It is an objective – it is an objective both for research and for higher education. They're closely linked, and that's how it's going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e535	The representative, Bjørnstad, said in a reply earlier here that there was a broad consensus that there should not be a national transport plan, and now we have been able to clarify the ‘wide agreement’, for one can ask, ‘Where is it?’ Who is it that has said that we don't want a little more robust plan? I think we kind of talk a little bit past each other when it comes to higher education, which we miss here. Personally, I must say that I had hoped that the government would have gone further into what we want with higher quality in higher education when it comes to, among other things. the professional professions. The representative also says that there is long-termity in this, and mentions two buildings – two buildings being mentioned – but the representative from the Left has pointed out that there are several challenges in the sector. Does the Progress Party wish that there should have been a plan for which building needs to be upgraded and, if necessary, new construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e544	That is precisely the reason why a proposal will be adopted in the vote today, which says that at the next roll-out, in 2018, there will be a list of rehabilitations and new buildings in the sector in the years to come. When I say that there is a difference between a long-term plan for research and higher education and a national transport plan, it's about once that asphalt is hacked more concretely and less dynamic than what higher education and research are. You might say that you want it and it built it ten years in time, but it's really scary to lock it up, because it's a sector that's so dynamic, where changes happen very quickly, and you don't know what's going on in the next ten years. You often know where a road will go, very many years before it is built. It's not like that in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e551	An important criticism of this plan is that he has a too narrow view of science. My question to the representative is: What role does humanistic research play in meeting the man-made climate change in the Progress Party's worth?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e556	Humanities and social sciences are important in many areas, including climate. We have said in this plan that one of the six-seven bet areas is climate-friendly and environmentally friendly energy, climate-friendly and environmentally friendly solutions. If we are to convert into a renewable society, all humanists, socialists, technologists and realists are involved in that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e561	The representative does not seem to answer the question completely. The criticism has been that one, for example. in meeting the man-made climate change, with which the Progress Party has a problematic relationship, has gone too far in science in this plan. So my question is: is the representative in agreement with that criticism, that humanistic research has too little room in this plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e569	No, I don't agree with that. I believe that both in the long-term plan and in what is made clear by the committee in the vote, it is very clear that humanistic research and socio-scientific research are part of the future Research Norway. So it's like when you're going to list something in a plan and you're going to prioritize something, you can't mention all the disciplines. That is not a priority. What we have said is that for the next ten years, the long-term plan period, we will give the most explicit priority to the things that stand in the plan, but we will also make it clear that humanistic research and socio-scientific research are part of the research in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e576	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e579	I'm glad we're now getting the first long-term plan for research and higher education. Long-term efforts and clear priorities are important in raising the quality of Norwegian research and education, and I believe that this plan will help. There has been some debate around the plan after it was presented. Some have pointed out that it is too thin, others have pointed out that it is too weak in the case of higher education, and some, including me, have pointed out that it was a little difficult to see the whole of the sector when we considered this plan in the Committee, and that it might have been appropriate to see the long-term plan more closely in the context of the report of the expert committee on funding in the UH sector and the major communication on structure presented later in spring. Because there is little doubt that long-term efforts, structure and funding are closely linked. Although it is possible to point out any such weaknesses in this plan, it is gratifying to note that there is a broad political consensus on the content and substance. There is a great deal of agreement on the direction and the areas we should give priority to, and I think that is a great strength. The size now commits to escalating research efforts over the years to come. We're fixing a goal of making R & D 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. I am pleased that we now have a time-bound goal for this, which was also addressed by the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties when the Stortinget dealt with the previous research report. I am pleased that we are now setting clear targets to increase the number of recruitment positions, and that we will have a concrete plan for two new buildings. It may be a bit thin to be called a long-term investment plan, and the bulk of the population is now asking the government to establish a chain arrangement for major investments, construction and maintenance, in the context of the roll-out of the plan in 2018. This plan sets out several objectives for Norwegian research and education. It will strengthen our competitiveness and innovation capacity, it will contribute to addressing the major societal challenges that we will face in the decades to come, and it is an objective that we should develop more professional environments of excellent quality. I believe that the bet on the sea is quite natural in a port like Norway. Increased knowledge and competence in the management of marine resources are important, not least with a view to ensuring safe food production. Norway already has a leading role in marine and maritime research, and here we need to do what we can to consolidate this position. The commitment to climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy is essential for us to be able to create a sustainable world. Here, we need to build on what we are already good at in Norway, while at the same time needing more knowledge about what stimulates different transformation processes in society. The need for research that can provide us with better and more efficient welfare services, I think most people see, and the focus on enabling technologies is perhaps one of the most exciting initiatives. None of us know what's going to be the next major technological revolution. In 20 years, iPhone and iPad are going to be some old-fashioned stuff that grandparents tell their grandchildren about. But none of us know what will revolutionize everyday life to people most in 20 years, no one knows what will revolutionize production in industry, no one knows what will revolutionize the production of welfare services, or what medical breakthroughs the world has seen. But what we know is that, for example, biotechnology and nanotechnologies will have enormous potential. I think biotechnology can have a lot of good to do with the world. It offers unparalleled opportunities that can be exploited for the good of mankind, but that will also raise a number of ethical issues. That is why it is essential that all research activities are based on good research ethics, and I am therefore pleased that an overall committee also stresses this and the need for close cooperation between the research and training institutions and the research ethics committees. I would like to repeat that I am pleased that this plan will be put in place, and I think it will mean a lot to the Norwegian research and education sector in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e608	Step Skei Grande was in a previous line here a little bit into it with the position and opposition, and my line is a little relevant to it. In 2013, the red-green government presented the research report. The Christian People's Party then had a note where they were strongly concerned that they would have a stepping-up plan for basic appropriations and scholarship positions in the institute sector. In addition, the numerical targets and instruments for industrial research were sought. I cannot see that the Christian People's Party has called for this in the committee work now. Does this mean that the Christian People’s Party is no longer equally concerned with a binding long - term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e615	No, we're still concerned with a binding long-term plan. We are still concerned with both basic appropriations and scholarships, and we have shown this not least in the budgetary cooperation with the cooperation parties. We're going to keep working for the future. What I want to point out is that I am particularly pleased about is that we now have a time-limited target for stepping up R & D efforts in Norway. It is by no means certain that we would be able to do so if there was a red-green majority on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e620	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e623	The government's long-term research and education plan was presented on the same day the government budget was presented, and I understand quite well that that plan did not get its own day, because it was not so much new to read in it. For me, it seems that there has been more to do for the government to get that plan out than to make it a good and real tool for the sector. Kristin Halvorsen suggested that the sector should have its national ten - year plan when she was the Council of State. In fact, the idea was that there should be a response from the education sector to the national transport level. It should provide predictability as far as possible, depending on the annual budgets if the sector is seagoing — as other sectors do —. We have received a plan that seems more like a summary of the 2013 research report. It describes the areas within which you want to focus, and it's fine. It makes sense with the greatest possible cross-political agreement on and in which areas we believe that the country should take its natural place in the future. This applies to the areas where we believe Norway should be at the forefront of international, even world-class, and to the challenges that it is important to address in a national perspective. It is good that these focus areas are repeated, but it is very disappointing that what should be a plan for research and education, hardly have any ambitions for the field of education. Good professionals are alpha and omega for good research and teaching. We need good researchers, but we also need good teaching. How will the government put forward its own statement that ‘public resources should be used to produce high international quality research and education’? What does the government really mean by ‘high international quality education’? It's just the world's leading areas we're talking about, or it's also true, for example. vocational training, such as teacher and nurse training? There's a big deal about the plan, we think, that there's nothing more about the field of education than what it does. We do not know what the government means by "quality of education". This plan could have been a good opportunity to discuss and clarify how the government will define it. It's a shame it wasn't done. It is difficult to interpret the somewhat thin plan in a way other than that the government parties, which otherwise have been a little high and dark in terms of provoking their ambitions for the field, when it comes to the problem, have difficulty bringing the general and overall objectives down to concrete, binding and not least predictable sizes. But there might not have been anything else to wait for. I would like to remind the hall and those in the sector who are a little disappointed by the result, about the somewhat reserved attitude that the Right showed during the examination of the research report in spring 2013. At the time, right-wing scepticism was expressed into a ten-year plan, and if the sector wants such a plan, the government and the Council of State have been somewhat less enthusiastic. The center party is therefore disappointed, but perhaps not surprised, that the plan did not become the predictable long-term plan we saw for ourselves. I understand that it may be difficult for the government to notify concrete plans for construction and equipment, since it has launched a comprehensive structural reform. A new structure should not cause government to shut down study places, it is said. I think the government does, but it might be a desired consequence over time, when the government moves away from the individual institution. It may change the needs of equipment and build something. Nevertheless, I believe we could at least have expected that there would be an overview or a table in the message that gave us and the sector an overview of the needs for upgrade that exist. That's what we're going to get from rolling," says the representative, Bjørnstad. I think it's four years late. This is about construction, but it's also about equipment, and it's good that it's put up to spend more money on equipment and research infrastructure, but we don't know when, and so we don't know where. Everyone is positive that a ten-year plan has been presented, but it should have been more concise, we think. How it's supposed to be operational beyond what's already in the latest research report is a little mystery to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e647	The government is committed to investing in world-leading trade unions and that we as a nation should be able to claim ourselves in areas in which we are good and where we have the opportunity to succeed internationally. The centre party has joined this in an annotation form and has said that ‘world-class ambitions are right’. Nevertheless, the central party criticises the government for disbursing funds for elite research in the State budget for 2015 and mentions this as a battlepage at the expense of practical research at colleges. How does the Central Party think we should bring forward world-class professional environments if it is not to appear in budget and planning, and if there is no room for prioritisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e652	We agree; we want world-leading research environments. Nevertheless, it was important for us to correct a index finger in view of the fact that we cannot just highlight the world-leading environments. We are also concerned about, for example: research in the professional field – as we said – which is not world-leading but important in a national context. That's why we wanted to say yes, it's good with world-leading research, but we can't just put our funds in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e658	Many would argue that the Center Party is a reactionary party. I usually don't go that far, but I'll call the party conservative and a little bit liberal. On one point, however, I would rather agree with the first group, and that is in the areas of aggregation. It seems like the Center Party thinks you're merging to merge, and there's no professional gain to get out of it. Of course, this is not the goal; the aim is to get better institutions when it comes to mergers in the university and higher education sectors. To this end, the Committee also writes in a note: ‘More than one institution has met in the last year, and the majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Central Party, welcomes the fact that more than one member wants to go along the same path.’ As you know, the Gjøvik College, in the House of Representatives of Tingelstad Wøien, has decided to join NTNU from my county, which has the same decision. Is it so to understand that, in a thoughtful case, if they regain power, the Central Party will repeal the voluntary merger decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e668	No, the Center Party is engaged in volunteering. What has been our main criticism is that the Council of State when he presented the structural reform said we should have quality criteria. We lack the quality criteria. Now it's like all the colleges and all the universities have been asked, who do you want to join? And then it's not launched anything for the purpose. Now I understand that there will be a growth report on education quality in 2017. So it's two years after the institutions have been told to merge. Then it seems rather opposite to me – it's about making it work together, and then you have to look at the quality. We think it's working with foxes first, as we tend to say in Uppland – a slightly backwards way to do it. Start with quality and funding, and then we see who should merge afterwards. Excuse me, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e673	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e676	As many have already experienced, it is a pleasure that we have received the long-term plan for research and higher education for treatment in the United Kingdom. This is an area that has long been important to the Left, and we have been clear in our budgets in priorities in this area. It is also gratifying, we think, that we have a government that puts this area high on the agenda, that talks about it, and that gives money to it. The Council of State has been particularly concerned that we should have more research environments leading the world. This is well and good, and it's completely divided by the left, but we're also a little bit concerned that we need to see a little bit wider. This communication comes at the same time as the government is engaged in major structural changes in the sector. For the Government and Government Parties of Stortinget, which are in charge of controlling both these processes, it may be appropriate to present this message before the Structure Message arrives. For us who are not part of the big changes that are now happening, the picture is probably a little bit different. I'm afraid that the ambiguities that now exist in terms of structure and in terms of funding make us weaken the significance of this plan, and that it can quickly be out-dated and irrelevant, and then it's quite a long time until the next roll. Another thing that has been criticised for this plan is that it is a plan that is primarily about research and, to a lesser extent, about higher education. There were several of the stakeholders at the Committee's hearings who remarked and commented, for education is one of the most important tasks these institutions are doing, and there are challenges related to education that I think should have been given a greater place in the plan. Among other things, NOKUT presented a student survey last year that showed that only half of the students expressed satisfaction with the teaching, while feedback and guidance cut even worse. Serious figures indicate that the main objectives of the quality reform have not been achieved. Today, new numbers have been presented, and I understand that they don't look much better in this area this year, although the council has now run the store a bit longer than last year when the figures were presented. When the Norwegian student organisation was at the hearing in January, it was pointed out that there was not enough about higher education in the plan. A link between research carried out and the training to be provided by each institution was requested. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee has formulated a comment with clear expectations that this issue must be addressed, because, as the Communication states, it must also be stimulated to excellent training. In the questionnaire last Wednesday, less than a week ago, I asked the Council of State what he was going to do with higher education. I also mentioned that someone had called for their own big message about higher education. I now register that he is responding today to a press conference, to a seminar or to what he has been on earlier today, that there will be a major report on the quality of education. It didn't come out in the questionnaire less than a week ago, but it's good that he now sees that it might be necessary. And we can look forward to it, even though it is not notified until 2017. We in the Left are pleased that the government, through this message, commits to stepping up scholarship positions. By 2018 there will be 500 new recruitment positions, and that is very good. However, I would just like to remind you that the report made by the Red-Green Government, ‘Request for and offer of scholarship positions in Norway up to 2020’, estimates a need between approx. 340 and 400 scholarship positions per year. We are thus a little behind it, and the Left has also been involved in this in its alternative budgets and has put 500 new scholarship positions in its 2015 alternative budget. The Communication states that some of the basic assumptions that need to be present in a well-functioning system are that, first of all, we need to have the right people with the right skills, and that's of course. But it's also a prerequisite that you have equipment and construction suitable for research, and that can help attract top researchers from around the world. It has therefore been important for us that this plan should be lifted and that a plan for investment and major construction and maintenance projects should be established in the sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e694	I notice that the representative Nybø is more crazier in the criticism now than she has been in the form of an annotation in the document we are dealing with. When the red-green government launched the plan for a long-term research plan, the Left was very concerned that the plan should be concrete, binding and leading, and that it had to include a stepping-up plan for basic funding, guidance for study places, a stepping-up plan for scholarship positions, a plan for investment in knowledge-building and equipment and stepping-up targets in key nutritional instruments. The plan we are dealing with today is little in line with the requirements promoted by the Left at the time. Nevertheless, the left side of the treatment, in an annotated form, is largely satisfied with the long-term plan. I would therefore like to ask: what is the background for the Left to lower the ambitions for what the long-term plan should actually contain?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e705	First of all, it's important to know that the Left always has a focus on research and higher education, because that's what we have. We have it in our budgets, and we have it in the treatments that happen here on the Storting. I think this plan has a great deal to do. It's time-fixing a goal, and it has ambitions on behalf of the recruitment positions. So there's things about the plan that I think are less good, and as I think there's reason to point out is less good, not least because this is a plan that's going to live on. We are adopting a plan today, but there will be budgets in the future, and we know that the left in the last two budgets has received more funding for research and higher education, both for basic appropriations and for recruitment positions, and there is a job that is not finished with this plan. On the contrary, a job is going to continue in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e714	The representative of Trine Skei Grande was engaged in these museum buildings, among others. on Tøen, and asked the representative of Aasen what action she thought would be taken for the new university buildings. I would like to ask the representative from the Left if she believes that this long-term plan provides answers to the questions that her co-representative raised about the museum buildings, and, if necessary, what action the plan takes to reduce temporaryity and to finance these museum and university buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e719	I think Trine Skei Grande's reply earlier today had the background that the Workers' Party is now very offensive in terms of both research and higher education, but that some of the challenges they are now pointing to are indeed challenges that existed when they themselves put in power – also the representative Tingelstad Wøien – when the previous government had a majority on the Stortinget. We also saw that there was a lot of temporaryity in this sector, and we also saw that there were problems with construction and investment. I think the point of Trine Skei Grande was that you can be big in words when you no longer sit in government, but what would you do if you actually had the power? That's what the Left is concerned about, and that's why we've also been busy in our budgets and in our agreement with the government that we're actually spending money on this sector, that we're actually fighting to get into the things we stand for when we're in opposition, and not least when we're in power to have influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e726	The long-term plan has a ten-year time span. That means that what we're dealing with today is going to have a view right up to 2024. By 2024, Norway should have taken quite a step towards a renewable society. That means that if research and development are decisive for the type of direction this is going to take, and if we're really going to be able to take the big steps, that kind of strategy must also be here. SV has a proposal in the room today that we want to turn the big stakes today on petrobased research, research aimed at extending the oil age, on research aimed at targeting the low-carbon society and basic research. This will not support the left side. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e733	There is a proposal from SV to turn the research effort from petroleum into renewable energy. It is not that we disagree that we need to research more on renewable energy. I think we really disagree with SV here, because I think a lot of the research that is actually going on – a lot of money and effort is spent on research in the petroleum sector – is very important, not just for the sector now, but also for the future. So I'm concerned that we're drilling for oil somewhere today, and we're going to do that, and then it's important that we take up as much oil as we can in the areas where we're actually going to drill, so that we can keep the areas where we're not going to drill for oil. But it is important to think that knowledge is always important, that knowledge in one sector does not preclude us from using it in other sectors in the future. That's why we don't want to lower research efforts in one area, because we think it can have a huge impact on another area later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e743	I think the representative Nybø has a very precise description of this message as almost a long-term research plan and a totally absent long-term education plan, and she shares a lot of our criticism of the plan. Nevertheless, the Left had quite different demands for Kristin Halvorsen than you have for Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. I understand that, because she had greater ambitions, but it is strange that you have gone away from the requirements you had in the previous period to what such a long-term plan would look like. There are especially two things I am surprised that the left is not on. Firstly, they believe that we should have an investment plan for construction in 2018. Why not get this as soon as possible? Why do you have to wait until the next accumulation period? Maybe that's because you hope there's going to be a new government. The second is: why are we not included in the proposal by the Red-Greens on a plan for quality in higher education? Now the Council of State announces that he will make such a big message anyway, so now the Left actually stands as one that the few parties in the Stortinget who do not want such a big message about quality in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e752	If the representative had asked the minister of knowledge if he felt that the Left had low expectations for him, I think the answer would be no. But we can hear about that with him later. With regard to the other things that Giske mentions, it's like I think that the announced news of quality in education is good, and I'm for it. I think it'll also be useful to focus on that part, not just on research. I'm a little presumptuous that it was in 2017. I think that's a long time, and there's got to be something about the quality of education in the meantime. And that's what the left will do. In our budgets, both in terms of construction, in terms of quality, and in terms of development in this sector, it is not that it stops this plan. On the contrary, we should also focus on that in the budgets ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e761	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e764	Prime Minister Erna Solberg tried in the 2014 New Year to give the government his work to realize the knowledge society a slogan. ‘Knowledge is the oil of the future for Norway’, she said. It is possible that the world-leading scientists and engineers have gotten the oil and gas up from far below the seabed, my knowledge has also been like oil to Norway in the past. And it is possible to imagine that knowledge was the driving force behind all the great moments in Norway's history, whether it was the art of the ship, the state organization and the trading system of the 1000s, the hydroelectric electrification of Norway at the end of the 1800s, the development of a welfare state for everyone in postwar times – or all the great moments in whole world history, for that matter. After I have been able to find out, the topic of the ‘knowledge society’ has been widely used — and abused — in this room since the 1980s. Even more so, it is used as a longing for something to come, and this ‘whatever’ knows, in particular, the voice of the ‘knowledge society’, how we as a society are to reach. The ‘Knowledge Society’ is in many ways a leniency, or a cross-border operation, a vision of the kind of ‘socialism’, ‘freedom’, ‘justice’ or ‘solidarity’, which we can never say we have achieved, but something we are all some that we need more of — or at least some of us. When Kristin Halvorsen presented the idea of a long-term plan in 2012, the goal was a comprehensive road map to systematize the combined research and right-wing education work in Norway. The plan would provide long-term leadership for investment – from knowledge building to research infrastructure, study places, recruitment and research. He was going to give the far-sighted and long-term leadership that we know that such a demanding and knowledge-intensive field as the Academy needs. It has been said that it takes 30 years to build a research environment. Just this long-term perspective would provide the national long-term research and right-wing education plan. Government plan is near blank on research buildings and research infrastructures, which form the physical framework for all research activities. This means that once again the sector will have to hold its breath as the October budget approaches, or, if it is, hope that the next building will be launched by a minister or a hopeful candidate for a visit at the end of August. There is not much to worry about when institutions are planning for a future political ballroom for the government party, which will have the most out of the lemon. The government's plan is near blank on the second part of the title, 'higher education'. The aim of the research is to become a ‘world leader’, while the goal of right-wing education is to become a ‘good’. How the government thinks when it comes to creating ‘world-leading’ research with ‘good’ education is difficult to imagine. But the more serious thing is that the government is going to reverse the work that was started by the red-green – to bind research and right-wing education closer together. Just outside the Norwegian living room door, there are opposite developments. In the world's leading research countries, education is becoming more and more closely associated with research, so that anyone who takes a right degree has tasted the research front and tried new ideas. This is how competence for the 21st century is to be built. Many would probably expect that a government consisting of a party that has traditionally been engaged in innovation and business would be interested in just this. But no, the research is most important, the education we get to come back to. The plan also does not specify the width of the research. There is a strong love for certain aspects of research, especially anything that tastes natural science, that can help to strengthen competitiveness, or that can solve short-term challenges for business. The solution to man-made climate change, for example, is: non-exhaustive efforts in scientific research. It seems that the wise, balanced scientific vision has already left the blue-blue shot, where there is the basic research at the breaking point between different subjects and traditions that the great ideas are emerging. It's a sad sight. The goal of the long-term plan is to create world-leading research, but the plan itself is mediocre and based on a syllable of knowledge. We can do better than this! If the knowledge society had been so important to realize, we would today send the plan back to the government and get a new one to the cottage. We would get an ambitious strategy for quality in right-wing education, with a grip that brings research and right-wing education closer together. We would have a stepping-up plan for recruitment settings and other research options for the entire planning period. We would have a plan to turn the research effort from petroleum over to renewables. We would have a plan of priorities for infrastructure. We would have a plan of ambitions for dissemination, cooperation with business and business life, lifelong learning and opportunities for knowledge dissemination using technology. And we would have a plan that ambitiously solved problems like temporaryity, gender balance and that too few students and researchers get into the big world. But this we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e797	The representative will make suggestions, the president believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e800	The President has thought quite correctly. The representative takes up the suggestions we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e805	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e810	The world has an increasing energy demand in the years to come. Today, about one and a half billion people lack access to electricity. Oil and gas will also help to meet a significant share of energy needs in the future, including in the scenarios where climate objectives are met. The International Energy Agency is clear that the world will need all the oil and gas we can find on Norwegian soil, because Norway, with its stringent environmental requirements, has much lower greenhouse gas emissions associated with production than most other oil provinces around the world. The petroleum industry has given us high prosperity, but we still need to have knowledge and technology developments in the sector. The belief in North Norway as an important region of Norwegian oil and gas is strengthened every year. Most in the industry agree that North Norway will be the largest region in the long term, and we already see that the companies have started planning from this point of view. When SV's representative wants to manage the closure of petroleum research, what effect does he think this will have on the possibility of a Northern Norse business and jobs in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e817	That's a very important question, and a good question. Firstly, when it comes to North Norway, there is a region in the north where petroleum will become important in the years to come, if the oil price increases. Today, with the oil prices we have now, the projects started up there will not be realized – it will be with the search. The infrastructure of the petroleum industry is not in the north, and there is little reason why the Minister of Knowledge or others should believe that the environment we already have in Norway, which is world-leading, which is linked to the West, is going to move northwards. That means that North Norway will not see any large growth of jobs as a result. So this isn't a Nordic project, it's the other way around. When it comes to oil, the International Energy Agency has just said that we have to let the oil that we haven't begun yet lie if we're to achieve the global goal of preventing the world's temperature from warming up by 2 degrees. This means that we simply have to be ambitious as it is when it comes to investing in renewable resources, and we have to turn the research from petroleum to renewable resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e824	The representative of the SV in the Committee, the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, has made himself the spokesman for the non-instrumental in the field of research and higher education, that research and higher education should not be for value creation but that it should have a broader mandate for society. I also understand that the representative is sincerely concerned that research and higher education institutions should be autonomous and without too much political governance. The representative also writes about this in his statement, that the institutions must be autonomous and not experience political detailed management that weakens free research and education. But what about the representative’s own proposal to turn the research effort from petroleum into renewable resources? Is it only in theory that Knag County is concerned with autonomous institutions and political detail management, and isn't it when it suits his own policies and ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e832	That's an interesting question. In my value, we're going to give researchers the greatest possible degree of freedom. That's our starting point. 1st@item: inlistbox But then we have some major national and global challenges, where we need some common strategies. The fight against man-made climate change is one of them. The great potential we have to coordinate research, for example. link to the exploitation of the sea, with aquaculture bets, is another. But it shouldn't be that one should control all research from the Research Council or from the Department. The point must be to find a much better balance, where one gives exactly that freedom. Just to take it as a bubble out of the side pockets of the representative - your mobile phone. The microchip, which is decisive for the mobile phone, is based on basic research. The biggest breakthrough in any research we have today comes from basic research. What's just going to give value to our society is to bet on basic research, but it takes a little longer than the simple and careful mission research.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e839	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e842	Ten years ago, Moser, a married couple in Trondheim, was well-informed with her center for excellent research at NTNU. When they received the Nobel Prize in Medicine just before Christmas, it was the result of hard, long-term work and priorities at NTNU. In such a perspective, ten years are short. At the same time, ten years ago it was still two years ago for Steve Jobs on behalf of Apple to launch the first iPhone, and it was one year before the first Northmen were on Facebook. These are inventions that since then have had a huge impact on our everyday lives, on public services and on the economy. In this perspective is ten years long. Today, the Stortinget is dealing with a long-term research and higher education plan for the next ten years, and the two examples I just mentioned show why it is important to have two thoughts in your head at once when discussing research and higher education policy. On the one hand, we need to provide predictability and stable framework conditions for the best ideas, so that they can grow, give us new recognition, create new businesses or contribute to meeting the major societal challenges. At the same time, we have to take into account that the world can look very different in ten years, and that it will therefore be unwise for us politicians to believe that we can plan in detail what instruments and programmes we need in just ten years. It is, as many people have been in today's world, a certain historical slum on the fact that today the Stortinge treats the first long-term plan for research and higher education. It is a plan that increases predictability and is based on the major challenges facing Norway and the world. In the long-term plan, the government sees research and higher education closely linked, and we have objectives and priorities that are common to research and higher education. For example, when the long-term plan says we're going to bet on the ocean, we have to bet on both research and competence if future generations are to be able to reap the values of the ocean. When we say we're going to bet on world-leading trade unions, it means investing in both research and higher education. High-quality research is also crucial for high-quality teaching. Both the long-term plan and the work on structure and quality builds up under it. I have also said – and I say today – that we are going to promote a big message about quality in higher education, specifically about quality of education, and we are aiming to get it into 2017. I note that a majority of the committee is concerned that the importance of the long-term plan may be weakened when the structure and funding model are unclear when the Stortinget is dealing with the plan. I allow myself to have the opposite starting point – the long-term plan is the overall framework. The long-term plan, and the treatment of it by the Stortinge, is the basis for the government later in spring to promote a communication for the Stortinge on the structure of quality in the university and higher education sectors. The initiative presented in the plan is one of the reasons why we need to strengthen universities and colleges, so that we get as much back for the increased investments they have. In the long-term plan, we are promoting innovation in the public sector and an innovative and adaptable business. If we are to succeed in those efforts, we need to mobilise universities and colleges, and I want to stress in particular the importance of strong professional environments, such as teaching, engineering and nursing sciences. These disciplines and study services are mainly found at higher education. They need to be stronger, they need to cooperate even more closely with surrounding businesses and the public sector. Their contribution to regional development and value creation will only become more important in the years to come. That is why I am also pleased that a broad majority of the Committee has expressed a positive opinion in the view that several institutions have agreed that they want to find one another, and that 'there is a positive view that more people want to go the same way'. In the communication on structure and quality, the government will among other things: present criteria on whether the institution is equipped to meet the quality requirements of the future on its own or whether they need to meet with others. One of the clear changes in the pace of Norwegian policy is the commitment of the majority parties to knowledge, the commitment of the majority parties to research and the commitment of the majority parties to higher education. Through budgetary cooperation in the United Kingdom, good budgets have improved and are reflected both in the 2015 government budget and in the long-term plan. It is reflected in the long-term plan, which has been called ‘ambisious’, and it has been called ‘concrete’, precisely because it is concrete and temporal. It's not a problem to put forward a plan of views. What has been a problem is to put forward a plan of concrete ambitions. The government announces a total escalation of 1.4 billion in the long-term plan. for the next four years, in order to strengthen the essential inputs needed to achieve the objectives of the long-term plan. We want to increase the number of recruitment positions by 500, we want more than double the funding for research infrastructure, a growth of 400 million. kr, and we will multiply the appropriations for actions to stimulate good participation in the EU Framework Programme Horizon 2020. And I remind you that these are minimum requirements that the government has set up – not maximum levels. The government has also said that we should reintroduce a time fixing for when we are going to achieve the goal of 3 pst of research and development. GDP. We're going to achieve this goal by 2030. In the past, the majority power in this room has been used to make thick documents on research and higher education less committed by taking the goal of time-keeping. Now the majority parties – the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party – use their majority power to make the commitments clear, even with numbers. To achieve this goal, we need to increase public funding for research. The government announces a stepping up of research appropriations to 1 pst. of GDP, and we aim to achieve this target with today’s outlook for GDP growth by 2019/2020. In 2015, the government and the cooperation parties at Stortinget follow up the long-term plan with about 800 million. kr, e.g. with a focus on world-leading professional environments, nutrient-oriented research and good participation in Horizon 2020. The State budget for 2015 shows that we have never been closer to one percentage point. We don't know what our society will look like in ten years, but what we know is that Norway is facing major transformations. We're going to convert into a society with lower climate emissions, we're going to convert the public sector so that we can provide high-quality services in the future as well, and we're going to transform business – not because the oil and gas industries are going to be gone, it's not going to be; it's still going to be an important driver, but it won't be the same engine in the Norwegian economy in the decades to come, as it's been until now. We know that there is a highly skilled workforce to drive our society through these transformations, and we know that probably new knowledge and new solutions are some of the most important tools. A good example of what technology and research can mean, I saw in Bærum municipality, at Dønski residence and treatment centre, a few weeks ago. There, Bærum municipality has established high-tech elderly care: it's talking medicine boxes, doors that warn about it's day or night, video phones – all with the aim of giving the warm hands more opportunity to do what only humans can, and letting the technology solve other problems. Research, development, the welfare education system and others are not just about what happens in laboratories; it makes a difference for people's lives. Initially, I mentioned two major innovations in the last decades: social media and the smartphone. These are also examples of knowledge of human behaviour and language being closely linked to the development of new technologies. And that again illustrates why it is also important in the long-term plan that we have good professional environments within the humanities and within social sciences – not only to understand ourselves and the world, but also because it is useful. We need, for example: understanding of language and culture to sell the fish in the sea, and we need community suites to understand how Norway can convert to a low-carbon society. Over the last few years, many fine words and formulations have been heard in this room about the long-term and predictability of research and higher education. This long-term plan and this government are doing something about it. The long-term plan that Stortinget is discussing today is certainly not a perfect document, but it is a milestone for Norwegian research and higher education – with long-term priorities, concrete escalation plans and ambitious targets for growth in appropriations. It gives predictability and long-termity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e870	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e873	I would like to commend the Council of State and agree that this gives more predictability than it has been in the past. Nevertheless, the discussion is now about whether it is predictable enough and concrete enough. The reason we're concerned with predictability is because the sector needs it if it's going to be good. That's why we're stressing it in a lot of areas. in order to make a detailed order of future constructions, to give a rough outline of the number of study places – it also affects research resources – investments in research infrastructure over a ten-year period and maintenance plan for construction. Now, what I'm wondering is, what are the advantages for the sector of the fact that concreteization is getting very small at the points that I've now drawn up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e880	Firstly, I believe that this plan is concrete on a number of important points. To repeat something I have said before, the purpose of this plan is two things. Firstly, there are some overall thematic priorities. It's an important signal. This is something you have taken with you from previous research reports. Secondly, it is about strengthening the core framework of research and higher education. These are also the prerequisites for good education. I believe that this must be balanced against – simply – the possibility of detailed planning ten years in advance. I believe that we have found a relatively good balance, but the aim of this long-term plan is not that it should be adopted now, put in a drawer and then resumed in four years' time. This is going to lie, figuratively, on my desk – I hope it is also on the committee’s meeting table – just to see all the decisions we are going to take on higher education and research in the years to come, in the light of what we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e885	I'm glad that we have a long-term plan with some clear priorities, but there will always be a balance between these priorities and other research, which is also needed. A majority of the parties point to social security and preparedness. All the parties – with the exception of the government parties – are involved in a majority comment in the vote where we point to the need to lift this field. We know that the field of justice lacks research. We have knowledge gaps that need to be sealed. In meeting a society where we have both an increased threat of terror against us and several natural disasters, we need to do something – not because this is one of our big efforts, but because it is a aftermath that we have to tackle. My question is: how does the Department manage this necessary balancing process, and how will this comment be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e892	I thought a little – as we worked on the long-term plan – if you wanted to see this as a priority. But then you will see very quickly – as the emerging representative Tyvand has done – that there are very many areas that are not mentioned. That doesn't mean we're going to stop research in, for example. the judicial sector or trade or research which cannot be directly linked to, for example: the climate issue. But this is a plan to say something about what areas we want to prioritise, and how increased resources essentially need to be created. In concrete terms, with regard to the need for research in the field of justice, the government has recently taken initiatives to strengthen research, for example: right-wing extremism and radicalism. It's an important contribution to that. It will not directly fall under the priorities of the long-term plan, but it is equally important and appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e899	We have heard today that the Council of State believes it is important to have a separate report on the quality of education, which will come in two years, as I understand it. At the same time, the Council of State points out that the message coming to spring should be called quality structure. Then I think the government thinks it's actually the size it depends on. I wonder what the rationale is for the Council of State to present a report on quality in education two years after the long-term plan has been presented, and two years after structural changes have been made and there have been changes in funding. Why has the Council of State not notified this in the long-term plan? I tear myself a little in the hair that the quality message did not come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e906	I thank you for the question. Firstly, it is not that because structural changes or institutions are being implemented, the need to think about the quality of education will be gone. But I believe that the structural debate is taking place now, and the long-term plan is one of the important prerequisites for, for example. to address small and fragmented professional environments. What is seen as a continuous thread in many of the sector’s evaluations is that small and fragmented professional environments provide weak research, and weak research is a reason to believe that there will also be poor educational quality. I just want to remind you that reality doesn't start over even if there's a new rise period. Not all evaluations and assessments that have been carried out in previous years are suddenly no longer valid. We have extensive evaluations and a review of Norwegian higher education from the Stjernø Committee – both before and after – of which many point to exactly the same, namely that one quality problem can be small and fragmented disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e915	I want to follow up on the question that the representative of Tingelstad Wøien had, and that we also talked a little about in the Questionnaire on Wednesday. We have recorded that the Council of State has today said that he will present a report on education quality. In the answer he just gave to Tingelstad Wøien, the Council of State attaches great importance to structural changes and the need for larger institutions, but although there may be weaknesses in the training of small institutions, there are, after all, absolute challenges that must be addressed in a way, including by the larger institutions. The cancellation notice that has now been notified has not been notified until 2017. We are going through 2015, with many structural changes and funding changes. We're going to use the same thing for 2016. But what else does the Council of State expect us to do in order to strengthen education in the meantime – that is, before 2017, before the big picture comes – in order to improve the quality of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e923	I can take on board what we are discussing today. I think the representative of Knag Fylkesnes had a very good point, which is completely in line with the long-term announcement, namely that research and higher education are linked. He said correctly that this government does not prioritize it or want to continue that development, but to that I would say: rather, on the contrary. Research and higher education are interrelated. It also means that weak research environments will have problems in providing high-quality education. It also means that good research and good research environments, such as: If students can be more involved in research, they are one of the prerequisites for building higher quality of education. Similarly, scholarship holders are not only part of the education system — they are also an important part of building professional environments, including in order to strengthen education. Scientific equipment, for which there is an obligatory escalation plan in this long-term plan, is also an important prerequisite for the quality of education. We're not done with that, but there are some basic planks that are at least addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e934	There are many questions that are unanswered by the Committee and the Stortinget when we now deal with this long-term plan. These are questions that we did not think we would come up with when this work was started, because the minister has started many other projects that intervened correctly in the long-term plan. He has started work on the structure of higher education and research. He's started a job with funding, and we also know that there's a research message out there. At least in my head – it's possible I have limited abilities – I can't see how all these different threads will finally meet somewhere. Do you want to meet them in this long term plan for higher education and research, or do you want them to meet completely different locations? And where does education go? Is it coming soon? Can the Minister clarify these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e943	I do not think the representative Knag Fylkesnes has limited capacity, and I believe that all this is in fact linked. Let me do just one example: In the wake of the Quality Reform, which has achieved a lot and achieved a lot of good things, among other things. on throughput, it has been criticised that too much emphasis is placed on quantity and too little on quality. One of the reasons is likely to be the funding system. That is also what the committee of experts concludes with. They say they don't see any very clear signs of it, but that the father is obviously there. In other words, one of the key prerequisites for improving the quality of education is also the funding system. I have already addressed small and fragmented professional environments – similar is one of the prerequisites for doing so. There are a number of issues that also concern political demands and what the institutions are doing, and there is one thing we must not forget here, and that is that although we are going to have high ambitions about excellence in education, we must not deprive the institutions of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e954	It is a little difficult to get hold of the Right Policy in this area. As late as last week, when we took the stand, Right was a big message about quality in higher education. When the Council of State was asked in the questionnaire, there were no signs of such a message either. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV propose this in the setting today. Today, the Council of State has come to the conclusion that he is going to make a major report on quality in higher education. It appears to be a policy for research and higher education by the input method. There are two ways to be the Council of State: one is to show the power and the ability to act and make the most of it while sitting in the chair. The other way is to try to be as invisible as possible, so that as little as possible knows who you are, and postpone as much as possible until the next period. The quality announcement will come in spring 2017, teacher training will come in autumn 2017, and a construction plan will come in 2018, probably with another government council. Why does the Council of State itself not want to draw up such a plan for construction and infrastructure in higher education? And why does he believe that the sector is worthy of postponing this until 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e965	It is possible that I talk to people in the sector other than the representative Giske does, but my impression is probably not that the sector's unisony feedback is that there is too little happening, and that there is nothing going on in higher education – rather the opposite. There is a structural process and a quality process. We're going to have a new funding system. We have received a long-term plan for higher education, and we are also alerting future policies. Storing announcements are not only announced because the councils come up with it. It is a result of long and thorough preparation and requires, among other things, government treatment, which is well known to the representative Giske. When it comes to whether I'm invisible, it's possible that there are other education politicians who are more familiar, but it's worth remembering that there's a difference between being famous and being infamous.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e974	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e977	Let me first start where we left off and notice that the Council of State did not answer the question at all, namely why a rolling long-term plan on construction and infrastructure should be postponed to 2018. He did not even try to touch that question, and I hope that during this debate the Council of State or the Right – also Left and Others – can help clarify why this should be postponed for three years. Why should we not now make a fully-fledged plan for higher education and research, including construction and infrastructure? I understand that the Council of State does not have a good answer to that. At least here in the hall – and that is an appeal to the middle parties – we should make sure that this comes as soon as possible. There is no doubt that all parties in the hall unanimously share the assessment of the importance of research and education. There are major macro trends that make this more and more necessary. Researchers estimate that about half of the jobs we have today will disappear in 20 years. Most of the jobs that exist in 20 years, we don't know about today. At the same time, we see that globalisation, climate change, population growth and technological development are increasingly demanding of us. That's why the former research minister, Kristin Halvorsen, and the government put research high on the agenda, it had a real growth of between 30 and 40 p.m. in the research budgets in our government period — a faster growth in research than in the rest of the budget. In the spring of 2013, a comprehensive research report was presented: it was solid, heavy and comprehensive, and was met by the sector with great interest and great debate. One of the decisions taken at the time was the creation of a long-term plan: an opportunity to put concrete, measurable ambitions, an opportunity to think together and see contexts, an opportunity to lift the sector in the fight for resources against other good ends. We know how this is happening, there is a struggle – between departments, between sectors and not least against the Ministry of Finance – to get an impact on their affairs. All of us who have been involved in making large-scale messages know that the concreteisation of numerical targets, ambitions and plans is often filtered through the Ministry of Finance's offices, and sometimes also political management. It is unlikely that a big message has been washed through as thoroughly as the message the Minister of Knowledge has provided. Here, almost all concrete measures are gone. We need a government council that stands up for the sector, which has an impact on its own government, which has the head of government's ear and support. None of these features today's Minister of Knowledge. So there is no overall plan for the development and scope of higher education in the future. This is well in line with the state budget, where there were no new places of study other than what had been phased in by old decisions. There are no concrete objectives for the quality of higher education, there are no measures to increase internationalisation in higher education, there is no plan to strengthen the international cooperation of institutions, and there is no concrete step-up for the 10-year period. You decorate yourself with a goal in 2030, almost none of us who are here, are going to sit in this main hall and be responsible for it in 2030. Why is it not at least a concrete objective of what should happen to the overall research objective over the decade — a concrete escalation year by year? It's nice to see that in 2030 we're going to have an ambition that the private sector will be researching for 2 pst. There is no overall plan for the building stock and infrastructure in the sector. That's not strange, because in the state budget, the Minister of Knowledge was the first in many years who didn't have a single new building in his state budget, and no concrete objectives for quality in research. The message is thin in terms of the number of pages and it is also thin in content. It is striking that the position of the Committee is more extensive than the communication made by the Minister of Knowledge. I think I refer the Council of State correctly when he said in an article here instead: what has been a problem is to put forward a plan with concrete views. The funding and structure of the institutions comes to us now, but all we meet are calling for the goals of the process. This could have been the opportunity — a few months before we get that message for treatment — to set us these goals. Now most of it is postponed until the next majority period. Structure and aggregation are ahead of objectives, and the Left is in favour of a big message of quality in higher education when the Right and Advance Party propose it, but against when the Red-Green propose it. It is also a pleasant observation in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e992	In the long-term plan, we can read that, in addition to the ongoing investment in quality in research and higher education, government prioritises its own investment in world-leading trade unions. ‘Knowledge and competence are among the most important competitive factors we have. ... good people with good skills are the starting point for how we meet major societal challenges. This is also what facilitates value creation, both in the public sector and in business. Research and education affect the economy by increasing the quality of labour and services provided, and by enabling new solutions and products to be developed and put into practice. This contributes to the ability to convert and to increase productivity. A knowledge-based approach is essential for finding solutions that can meet many of the challenges facing society.’ These are benevolent words and difficult for some to disagree with. Now I'm not going to talk about all the shortcomings in the long-term plan, there have been several things that have been done before me, but there's nothing to do with the problem of temporary employees in the sector, and I find that to be alarming. For how are we going to get young people to choose to become researchers, how are we going to get the best, those with the best assumptions, skills and abilities, for the sector? And not least: how are we going to get women to choose the profession when one of the biggest problems for recruitment to research is temporary jobs and that it is so widespread? For many years, many people have been talking about this, and the Research Association – and I stress: the Research Association, not LO! – writes, inter alia, this on its website: ‘There is an abnormally high temporaryity in sectors where the Research Association organises workers. This affects, in particular, scientific staff, but also other groups in the research sector, which are assigned much more temporarily than usual in the labour market. The general rule in Norwegian working life is permanent addition. It improves the safety and predictability of workers and provides a better basis for further professional development. Being temporarily employed can be burdensome in several ways. Most seriously, there is enough uncertainty about the loss of jobs and income, but temporary employees may also feel that they are being neglected in some job contexts, such as pay, job creation, access to resources and strategic work. It may also affect academic freedom and the inadequacy of research when the job situation of researchers is insecure. Furthermore, the bank will often suffer from poorer loan conditions and the loss of some financial benefits to permanent employees.’ Furthermore, they write that the benefits of fixed additions include: is that it ‘— providing the activities and individual opportunities for long-term and comprehensive planning — strengthening the working environment and well-being — providing mutual trust and loyalty — ensuring academic freedom and thus the trust of society in critical and independent research — making the workplace more attractive to the talents that will not be missed — providing the opportunity to recruit the best available competence in an addition process — reducing the number of addition processes and periods of training — preventing brainpower from disappearing and shifting focus from key job search tasks’ The figures for employees in the university and higher education sectors from the Databank on Right-wing Education in December 2013 show that women are assigned far more than men in temporary posts. The team of researchers comments on it in this way: ‘The mid-term of the sector is a significant problem for all involved, but this shows that women are assigned more than men on a temporary basis and indicates an additional challenge for gender equality and working conditions.’ That is why this matter is important for the Research Association. On VG Net right now we can read about Sanna Sarromaa in 35 years, which is now giving up the academy. She has been temporarily employed for ten years, but now she can't do more, and it says well. In the past, I have understood the Council of State that he believes that this problem must be taken seriously, but now I am not so sure what he means anymore. We know that the government wants more temporary work, and they want to change the Working Environment Act to get this done. Neither the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party or the Christian People's Party support our proposal in this matter, where, together with the Centre Party and the Swedish Government, we ask the government to establish a recruitment strategy for better gender balance and to ensure less use of temporaryity in the university and higher education sectors. When they are likely to vote against this proposal later today, it must mean that they are actually opposed to what is in our proposal, as well. I think it is serious that they do not take this seriously. Then it is to be admitted that it could have happened more during the previous government, even though there was a sharp decline from 19.7 p.m. from 2005 to 14.8 pst. in 2012. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the work of the Red-Greens is now continued to ensure that one not only manages to recruit good researchers, but actually manages to keep them in the sector. Finally, it's a paradox that while in this case everyone stresses the importance of research and knowledge for our society, the government chooses to ignore established knowledge when it comes to temporaryity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1057	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1060	For the first time, a government in Norway is presenting a long-term research and higher education plan that provides predictability and long-term prospects for business and research and education environments. The plan, based on the major challenges facing Norway, is well received, and both the Research Council and the academics have called it a milestone. Unio referred to it as ‘both ambitious and concrete’. The Progress Party welcomes the fact that the plan contains concrete fields of action, long-term priorities and objectives, while providing the necessary flexibility to make use of opportunities that we do not know about today. The quality of research and higher education is generally good. At the same time, there is a considerable variation in performance between institutions. That means there's the potential to take out more. Unlike the Workers' Party, the Progress Party is able to see things in context as well as to put things into a whole. We believe that the long-term plan and the government's announced communication on the structure and quality of the UH sector must be viewed in a coherent way, and that this will strengthen and enhance the quality of research and higher education. It is invested in areas where Norway has strategic advantages, such as natural resources or good trade unions. For example, we are world leaders in maritime technology. To be at the forefront of good and effective solutions, there is a need for cooperation between industries, research and education. The Blue Maritime Industry Cluster on the coast of Møre and Maritime CleanTech West, which operates in the Bergens and Haugaland areas, and which has the status of excellence in research, are good examples of how the interaction between business and education and research is driving new and even better technologies. This important interaction helps to secure jobs and ensure development and growth in Norway. The progress party is well pleased that this is being done in a very good way in the plan. Oil extraction on Norwegian soil has been important for our economy, and it will continue for many years to come. Norway has developed world-leading technologies in the petroleum industry. Continued investment in industry research and technology will contribute to the generation of new technologies and equipment that can contribute to even more environmentally friendly production of oil and gas and increase the competitiveness of the sector and businesses, while at the same time providing transfer value to other energy environments. The Progress Party has long-term expectations and that the government's increased investment in higher education and research and in cooperation with industry will increase the quality of the UH sector and enhance value creation in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1079	Having heard parts of this debate, it is almost difficult to believe that there is a unanimous committee that has actually said well that the government has now presented the first action plan for research and higher education, a long-term plan for several parties has long called for, but has not been provided. We have a plan that gives clear signals to trade unions, businesses and the public on government priorities in the field, and a plan that clearly signals the government's commitment to follow up resource use for recruitment positions, funding for research infrastructure, schemes to contribute to good participation in Horizon 2020, and an ambitious target for growth in research and development appropriations. This is in my opinion, with all due respect to report, in stark contrast to the Workers' Party's claim of non-commitment in the article "A half-plan" in Today's Business, Monday, February 2. Several hearing bodies, like the NTL, have said that they are pleased to note that government is now raising its ambitions to build good research and education environments. The University and Higher Education Council says that they are pleased that we have received a long-term plan for higher education, where at several points an investment plan for the government period is signaled. They state that with the Minister’s seven-point plan and the 2015 budget agreement, the government has signalled a more ambitious direction for research and higher education. The Research Association clarifies in its consultation opinion that they are convinced that this is a good approach that will increase predictability and clearer room for action for the institutions. They stress that the long-term plan will help to create a long-term long-term perspective in Norwegian research and higher education with greater transparency around the priority discussions and that it will improve the quality of research and education. The long-term plan we are about to adopt marks a clear shift in line with a stronger commitment to value creation, quality and the major challenges we face. The decision of the Finance Committee is at the hearing, the structural message is expected in a short time, and the Minister of Knowledge has announced a separate notification for quality in higher education. This is not about outsourcing, as the representative Giske claims, but about enforcement power and pace. To say it with Aasmund Olavsson Vinje: ‘Knowledge shall govern the State and the State and the profession shall carry the State’;» This action plan is an important element in the development of Knowledge Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1098	I need to comment a little bit on education, which has shaped the debate. State councils admitted in one of their speeches that there is a need to think about the quality of education. We are calling for action on education quality. I would like to refer to a 2014 NOCUT note, where there is a warning against just carefully strengthening the professional environments in the sector, which is the main argument of the government parties, namely that if we strengthen the trade unions, there is almost a legal link between good trade unions and good educational quality. It's not like that. What we need to do, as the NOCUT is quite clear, is to give clear guidelines on how to exploit this quality promise in the professional community to increase the quality of education as well. It's a little bit about calling a spade a spade, because there are major challenges in many institutions in prioritising educational quality. There is a struggle for resources between education and research. That's what it's all about, and we have to dry it open. I feel that everyone is just talking about educational quality without putting it into practice, and that's the problem with the message. Incentives and the political attention given to research are significantly stronger than those that stimulate quality of education. The consequence is that the room for action of the institutions, on which the Red Isaac calls for greater use, is reduced, because it is the research that is constantly being discussed, it is the research that is constantly being focused on, and research, for example, has. a strong Research Council. Everything about quality of education is fragmented and little to compare. We have to have targeted action at national level to achieve these objectives, and that is something that is very clear. We can always have incentives for research – much there and less on education. If we look at the SFFs – Centres for Excellent Research – they have 287 million. kr in its 2014 budget. What do the SFUs, which we are busy with in our settings? They have 16 million. kr. There's a huge difference in emphasis. Besides, we know too little. The barometer, with which the students themselves contribute, is our guideline. It's too little when we're going to make a policy. We need an evaluation and a mission such as NOKUT and the Research Council, for example. can do together. I simply think that the Council of State should follow up all the points in the NOCUT note, and then he should have it in place long before the notice comes in 2017, for only then does he show that he takes seriously what very many in the sector are talking about, not least the students, and to which we must listen, namely that the quality of education is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1111	I feel the need to say something more, because I think there will be an unnecessary amount of black paint in this debate. I would like to commend the plan that has been drawn up, which has been able to balance being an overall plan with an overall approach, while being both visionary, committed and concrete. It's also exemplaryly short. I don't like having strategies that are on several hundred sides. It is important that you have an overall goal, and then it has to be followed up in other documents afterwards. With respect to reporting, I find it difficult to deal with the endless black paint that the representative Giske is reading by saying that neither one thing nor the other is in this plan. The plan is a milestone for Norwegian research and higher education. For the first time, a plan is presented which gives predictability and long-termity to business and research and education environments. We have also been given a knowledge minister with a say in our own government – also in the Ministry of Finance – to be able to make commitments in the long term. We also have a prime minister who personally engages in research and education. Since Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister, we have seen concrete action through strong budgets. We see that the government both invests more and makes concrete contributions to improve the quality of education and research environments. The long-term plan is an overall, long-term strategy. We get a structural message to look at changes in the university and higher education sectors, with the very starting point for improving quality. The Minister of Knowledge has also announced a separate communication on quality in higher education — not surprisingly; it was a unanimous increase that took place in the previous period. As I understand it, it was also the Right who headed for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1120	I would first like to thank the Committee for a very good debate, and also for a lot of good input into the comments that are available, both from a varying majority and from the minority. I think one of the things that maybe research policy and partly higher education policy are struggling with in Norway is that it's rarely the area that creates headlines. But now we are in a period when, among other things, The Nobel Prize and a tearing technological development make it possible for us to see more headlines on research and higher education. It is also a concern about the quality of studies, and all that seems to me to be reflected in a dedicated debate in the Grand Duchy. I remember the recordings and hear what Marianne Aasen says here, and I've also looked at what organizations and institutions play. Some things about what we do in higher education and in education quality: The representative of Aasen says that the funding system is important. I fully agree with that. Although, overall, the funding system can be said to reward educational quality by rewarding implementation, in my opinion, there is a need for change there. The expert committee provides a starting point for that discussion. We have also proposed an experiment with national delectuaries in some subjects. It is also a contribution to the quality of education, because together with the University and Higher Education Council, we have also asked for a closer look at the characterisation practices of the different institutions. It's a contribution. I also notice that the Committee thinks centres of excellence are a very good system, and would like to see more of it. I'll take note of that behind my ear. We have also commissioned from the Ministry a three-year research-based evaluation of the quality of higher education through the Norwegian Research Council. And to the representative Marianne Aasen: We have also commissioned the NOKUT and the Norwegian Research Council to see research and education better in the context, and the NOKUT and the Research Council will develop during 2015 a methodology for an overall assessment and evaluation of professional environments covering both research and education activities. That's what we're doing. In the case of construction, as the representative Giske mentioned, it is now a formulation from the majority that the need to make the building needs visible — perhaps also the maintenance needs of the sector — in the context of the next rolling. Of course, it is a decision that we have to follow up on, for construction, and not least the maintenance of construction, the importance of which in the sector is considerable, which is also ultimately both about the quality of research – the Life Science Building is a good example of this – and not least about the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1133	When the Right Chief Speaker has to tell the Chamber that then, the Minister is really pretty good, then you realize that the Council of State is on thin ice. We don't do black paint; we just frame up all the things that could have been in a long-term plan for higher education and research, but that's not there. And it's not just us who mean it – it actually means the Right Self. It points out that there has been ‘a clear desire from the sector for a clearer prioritisation of investment in construction beyond what is outlined in the long-term plan’. And about education, you say: ‘The majority indicate that several actors have called for more emphasis on higher education in the long-term plan.’ In parliamentary language – when the government parties in the election refer to their own government position in that way – it is rather harsh words, and when you have to go so far with concretely proposing a Roman number decision here to instruct your own government – or probably another one after 2017 – to create a construction and infrastructure plan, it is also quite alarming. It's part of the units that it happens. This is where the Council of State is completely lacking in effectiveness and implementation. Why in the world should we wait until 2018? The Council of State still does not respond to that. If the State Council cancels the mobile phone for 3 seconds and thinks about the following: Why will he wait until 2018 to create a comprehensive plan for building and infrastructure in higher education? Why is the sector expected to wait until 2018? We carried out the quality reform – I took over as State Council in March 2000, the notification came in February 2001, was adopted in June 2001. As for Kristin Clement, I disagreed with much of what she did, but she had implemented the whole reform by 2003 – transition from cand.mag. to bachelor and from main subject to master, new financing scheme, establishment of NOKUT. This Council of State therefore waits four years to complete five-year teacher training, although there are already five-year teacher training courses. He waits four years with a big message about the quality of higher education, and he's going to wait five years, probably, until another state council creates another construction and infrastructure plan in higher education. Is it implementation? Is that action? No, that's the opposite. It is to sit as still as possible in the boat and hope that this pouring period will pass before you actually have to do something. Then you adorn yourself with walking around threatening the high school in Nesna or the high school in Sogn and the fjords with coercion. Well, it's not actable to merge colleges – there's one decision in a government, and then it's done. We've also merged colleges and universities in our time. Shopping power must be on quality, ambitions, construction, infrastructure, content, tipping, money. And again, I ask the Council of State: why should this construction and infrastructure plan a) be instructed by Stortinget, and b) wait until the next majority period? I think we can get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1147	It has been a lack of debate, and we have not had the most extensive debate that a long-term plan for higher education and research might well have had. To this end, the debate is based on syllables. I've looked at one of the sections that have cared a lot about me in my political life, E18 between Balsfjord and Tromsø. The knowledge base on which the Department has developed for that route is larger and more extensive than the knowledge base on which we build this plan, from the Ministry of Knowledge. That's how many people have thought, that there should be one coming back to. One should come back to the building, one should come back to education. One should come back to how things should be bonded together and how the different strategies should hang together. Then the Stortinget was again like a big question mark: what's the idea here? What's the big congstant? I found it somewhat imaginative throughout the project the long-term plan as he has been realized by this government. Here's a really great possibility to really go on with big, exciting visions. One could try to conceptualize and really expand the course for where we're going to be when it comes to the relationship between research and education, in ten years. There is a really great opportunity to create something exciting that can really show action and point direction to how the sector will become in the future. The whole field of technology – how to use it to spread knowledge to society, both take education and access to research. The research that might have to create values for society is not mentioned either. Should an e.g. have a measure of 100 pst. of all education programmes at universities and higher education institutions should be digitally available by 2020, for example.? It could have been exciting visions for a knowledge society to stretch towards the great leading knowledge nations in the world. There's nothing about it. Dissemination could be one of the things you might be able to do and disseminate meritorious, academic meritorious. The kind of questions to bring what's going on in the institutions into society, nor are the tracks being included in this plan. One only goes very traditional, some kind of research department, to work and provides a very thin knowledge base. I've asked questions about the fact that it can't be that one is so imaginative. What are the reasons for this? Could it be that we have a minority government that doesn't want to commit in a big deal where they have to search for multiples in another way? You do not want to create a plan that takes away the possibilities to control. Therefore, a rather relaxed plan is put forward. It may be there, and it may not be the imaginative thing going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1160	First, a comment on the debate. I think we should be so honest and say that this is a normal discussion in Stortinget – as I see it – between opposition and position. Then we have to bear in mind that you do not agree with everything the other party says. As far as I've been able to follow, in particular, all of the opposition's spokespersons have spoken nicely about the plan being presented, that there are some good things, but that we have to allow ourselves to have an open discussion about what we think is missing. That's what I'm talking about here in the hall. So to a topic that hasn't been so much up and that I think is important to be said in this discussion. It is that these areas of society we focus on, social security and preparedness, have been addressed by Christian People's Party representative Anders Tyvand, while sea, technology, environment, welfare, etc. are areas that we clearly emphasise in the plan. There must also be drivers other than the Ministry of Knowledge. What worries me is that the Minister of Knowledge put forward a good research effort – in and on its own – in the budget of the year. There was an increase in an amount that you can be satisfied with, but the problem is that apart from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there is one department that keeps stable, the other cutters in the research. It's very worrying, because it's those who are going to do health research, it's those who are going to do social security and preparedness research. We need increases in the Ministry of Defence's budget for research, and in the Ministry of Justice's budget, in the Ministry of Transport's budget, etc. There is something we need to know that the committee is involved, both this and the previous committee – we need to have a pressure on the other disciplines that we do not have the opportunity to follow up as well as we will in this committee, and the state councils that we have in our committee will do. In order to succeed in the society we outline in this communication, all the Councils must set up – everyone must give priority to increasing research in their budgets. Then I would like to thank you for the concrete answers about quality of education, which came from the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, and which I saw as positive and good – we are told today that there is to be a separate message. There was something we did not get a response to – it is still hanging in the air, in my opinion. But I still wonder a little how it might be that the Council of State puts its own in the situation that they oppose remarks internally in the setting for which they are now suddenly in favour. It's a big deal message. You might want to avoid that by having a slightly more holistic approach to it. There the representative Knag Fylkesnes has a good point – there will be too many arms and legs, there will be too much confusion as to what is the big plan here, and it is not hanging together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1171	We're in the situation that we can actually fill the words'show, don't count' with some content and some meaning. That is, it's not that long since we could see what the former magnificence used its majority power to do. In 2013, there was a research plan, and so did in 2009. In the long-term plan this year, there are two concrete buildings that are prioritised. In 2009, it was, I knew, zero barley; in 2013 – it wasn't that long ago – it was, I knew, zero barley. Then we're in the situation where the opposition just has to get used to: we have a new large number, and then it's also natural to, for example, a party like the Left is even more ambitious than the government. We can live with that. That being said, there are high - if not high, then at least very high - appropriations for construction: 1.45 billion. SEK for construction, for design 105 million. SEK, for equipment 210 million. kr, an obliging escalating plan in the long-term plan for scientific equipment – all it delivers. Similarly, when it comes to fellows, what did the previous majority use their majority power? They used it to go hard in the first few years -- then it was good -- but in 2010 it was zero, in 2011 zero, in 2012 zero, in 2013 zero. There has been a change of pace with the new large number and with the new government. As far as teacher training is concerned, it is in itself a good thing that the representative Geske would like to have it before, but it is funny to get criticism to do something too slowly, which the Workers' Party has always been against, and which they explicitly affirm in their programme that they are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1180	Trond Giske has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1183	So it took two and a half hours for the Council of State to bring in the last eight years, and what we did in government – well, he can get the list from his own office of all the buildings that were started, to which money was granted, which was completed under the red-green government. Now the Council of State has spoken for the third time, and I repeat the questions – he has unlimited speaking time: why wait until 2018 with a long-term plan for building and infrastructure in higher education? Why does the Council of State not want to do this in the current period of ageing? Why didn't he have a new building in his 2015 state budget? Why do you have to have a Roman number decision in Stortinget to implement this? Should not the sector be better served to get this plan as quickly as possible, that quality was also set before setting a structure, that a report on higher education should be made as quickly as possible instead of sitting as still as possible in the boat and waiting for a government change? Now he can have the opportunity to answer: Why should this plan only come in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1190	I take the word because I think it is a little important that we distinguish between a long-term plan and a research report. State Council Røe Isaksen referred to two research reports, the Research Communication 2009 and the Research Communication 2013, which are general policy documents where it does not state the type of concrete building, the number of appropriations, the number of posts, etc. That's why we've got the long-term plan. It is the person who will fill the strategic document with that type of content. That is why we are also concerned with concreteisation, because a long-term plan is the concreteisation of the research communication – that is the way it is meant to be. Then I think it's a little weird and funny to pull out just that. It is the budgets that have previously been the documents showing the concrete steps to follow up the research notifications. Now we've got a long-term plan, which will follow up on the research report that underlies this. Here I think it's a little important that we're a little tidy. So it is possible, of course, that the Council of State takes the initiative to change this, but the past – what is history – should at least be correct, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1199	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1203	All of a sudden, a force-salve came at the end from the minister, where he among other things. confuse what has been a problem for the Committee to understand: what is the relationship between the research message and the long-term plan? The long-term plan should contain much more. One thing was the long-term perspective. The second was that he was to hold, among other things, construction — things that we otherwise see in the state budget — get them into a long-term perspective. So the minister uses invalid arguments from Stortinget's pulpit, which I think are alarming. The other applies to grant settings. From 2005 to the red-green government went off, there was a real growth before the 32 pst research. 7 B.C.E. kr extra for total research, 1000 direct funded grant settings and post doc. settings – during that period. It's a formidable bet. The increase that this government has made — if only one looks at the percentages — is not much larger than that of the previous government. So here too, the minister must stick to knowledge, as the leader of the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1210	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1224	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1233	I refer to the proposal by the representatives of Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Kjersti Toppe, Jenny Følling and Heidi Greni to lift the requirement of a continuous withdrawal of the right to secondary education. The Committee on Churches, Education and Research has examined the proposal, and I am presenting the Committee's opinion today. I would first of all like to thank an overall committee for good cooperation and refer to the joint comments of the committee. Young people who have completed primary or equivalent training are entitled to three years of secondary education upon application. This right must normally be taken out during a continuous period of five years, or six years when the training is provided in full or in part in an apprenticeship. The right must be exercised by the end of the year when the student reaches the age of 24. Adults who have not completed secondary education are entitled to secondary education as of the year of age 25. In other words, there is a distinction between the right to secondary education under youth law and under adult law. Youth who do not complete secondary education during a continuous period of five or six years has exercised the right of youth. If you are under 25 then you have to wait until your age of 25, before you have a statutory right to further education. An overall committee agrees that today’s system can be a challenge for those who are going between two chairs. There is also reason to stress that, in a joint comment, the Committee refers to the general obligation of the county to offer offers to applicants without the right to secondary education, but that in such cases it will be up to the county council to decide on the application. In addition, young people who have exercised juvenile rights — if there are particular reasons — may apply for secondary education under adult law, such as: because, for health reasons, it is not possible to make use of youth law. Nevertheless, the Committee acknowledges that today’s system is leading to a risk of some being left untrained for a period of time and that there is a risk of losing the motivation to complete secondary education. In view of the close link between the implementation of secondary education and subsequent labour relations, the Committee is united on the intention to facilitate the widest possible implementation of secondary education and on the need for more flexibility than the present system provides. However, the Committee shall submit a split opinion. I leave to the speakers who come after me to explain their views and, in the course of this discussion, will explain the Right's view on the matter and why, in majority, together with the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, we have concluded with a recommendation that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. The majority do not want to take an hasty decision to make a legislative change as set out in the draft representative. It is necessary to carefully investigate any legislative changes. Moreover, it has not been given that the amendment of the Training Act in the manner proposed in this case is neither the only nor the best solution to ensure that those currently serving between two chairs will have the opportunity to complete their training. The whole Committee shares the views of the proposers on the need for greater flexibility in order to ensure that all those who have not completed secondary education are able to implement without prejudice to the system. Because of this, the Government Platform states that the government will introduce a ‘lifelong right to secondary education’, and in its work on the Lifelong Learning and Exclusion Communication, the introduction of a seamless transition between youth law and adult law will be assessed. The notified notification has been decisive for the majority’s conclusion in this case. We do not want to agree to a change in the law until it has been thoroughly investigated, nor is it necessary to ask the government to make such a change in the law because this will be assessed in that notice, and then the Stortinge will have the opportunity to deal with it carefully. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1261	Education gives individuals great opportunities for self-development, stable working conditions and good income — in short, the possibility of a good life. Education is also very important for Norway as a nation, and then it is essential that we have schemes to facilitate higher education than at present. The promotion party is concerned that better and more flexible higher education courses can be offered than is the case today. It will ensure that more people can take part in their daily education, which will ensure that more people complete their secondary education. Today, we distinguish between the right to secondary education under youth law and adult law. In that regard, the case-rapporteur was very clear in his statement, what the meaning of it meant, so I do not have to repeat it. The Progress Party is concerned that we need to have a flexible system that facilitates the completion of further education. Research shows that there is a clear link between the completion of secondary education and a stable link with the labour market, which in turn is essential for self-sustaining. The economy is becoming less and less in need of persons without completion of secondary education. The World Wide Web Analysis Report 2014 concludes that there can be a surplus of labour without completed secondary school of 200000 persons in 2024. In addition, we know that three out of ten do not complete further education. At the same time, the labour market is asking for more good skilled workers. On the one hand, it is positive that businesses are increasingly demanding skills, but also a challenge for those who are not completing secondary education. It is also a challenge for the nation as a whole, because people without completed education, as I said, are more likely to get out of work and thus will not be able to support themselves. The government has set in motion a cross-ministerial effort to develop a comprehensive policy for adults who are at risk of falling out of work and who are out of work. The Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion shall submit a notification to the Stortinget during 2015. In the context of the Lifelong Learning and Exclusion Communication, the Ministry will also consider the introduction of a seamless transition between youth and adult law. A seamless transition will result in the right of all those who have completed primary school, regardless of age, to take up secondary education at the time they themselves wish to take up the training. The Progress Party supports the intention of the draft representative, but we are not ready to support the proposal, including in particular: in view of the fact that the government is already working on this issue. There is a need for a good knowledge base before the Storting can take major and costly decisions like this, and it is not necessarily the solution that the representatives have outlined in their proposal, which is the best. The Progress Party looks forward to the announced notification of lifelong learning and alienation and expects it to contain solutions that ensure good, flexible secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1282	Completion of secondary education is the key to education, it is also the road to higher education and to participation in the labour market. From the forecasts of the Central Statistical Office, we know that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get a job without formal education. In other words, the way from falling out of secondary education to being out of work and having to live on Nav's benefits is much shorter. For every student who does not complete secondary education — it is a major loss for society. If we are to build the country for the future, we are totally dependent on the fact that as much competence as possible to participate in the labour market. As I said, it's a big loss for society, but the loss for the individual is the same. Having an out-of-work port often means that you also end up outside many other arenas in your life. That is why the Workers' Party fully agrees with the rapporteurs' intention behind this proposal, that we need a school system that ensures all good opportunities. The drop-out is one of the school's biggest challenges. At present, too many pupils fall out of secondary education, particularly as regards vocational education programmes. It already means today that we are not training for the skills that the country needs in the future. In just ten years, Norway will lack more than 100 000 skilled workers. In particular, we will lack many hands in the health and care sector. We need to reverse this trend through better vocational training. That is why, in January, the Labour Party presented a proposal for a representative of 33 points on how to strengthen the professions. Not least, we need to make sure that we have enough places to learn. Here, too, we have a series of new proposals, like trying out a foundation for apprenticeships and letting more companies go together to take in apprentices. Absence does not begin in high school. To ensure that more students complete, they should not wait for them to fall out of school or for them to lose their youth rights. You have to do more to prevent the dropout. We know that there is a clear link between poor performance in primary school and later non-response. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to allocate 105 million in its alternative budget. kr for early effort. We would like, among other things: have a reading, writing and calculation lift, where we ensure that all students receive the help they need to learn the basic skills of their childhood. We also know that health, well-being and security through school are important. Motivation and good learning are all about everyday school life. Old wager is key. Nevertheless, we need a better safety net for those students who fall out of school and have to wait for adult law. The working party shares the concerns of the proposers and supports the idea of more flexibility. However, we are not prepared to support a comprehensive and potentially cost-intensive proposal like this without knowing all the consequences and other alternative solutions available for these challenges. The Working Party and the Left shall submit the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to assess the impact by amending the rules on the continuous withdrawal of the right to secondary education and to promote this as its own case for the Stortinge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1300	The representative of Sigmund Steinnes has thus taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1303	We know that the requirement of continuous withdrawal of the right to secondary education within five years and the distinction between so-called youth and adult law can create challenges for individuals. Some people experience, because for different reasons, they either have to finish an initial course or not get started as planned, that they have to wait several years before they can get back to school. First, there may be different motivations, and changes in the life situation may help to make it challenging to go back to completing the training course. I therefore share the rapporteur's view that this is problematic. Then we know that there are also solutions for young adults who are not entitled to secondary education, and that you have an opportunity to apply for admission even if the formal conditions are not met. But it's probably so sad that maybe not everyone has a good enough knowledge of these possibilities, and not everyone is looking either, who gets a place. There are those who are at risk of being unsolicited in school. This is a problem for the individual, and it's a problem for society. It is, as has already been pointed out, even so that those who do not complete secondary education quickly end up on the outside of work, because we know that there are fewer and fewer jobs available for those who have no formal education beyond primary school. This is about quite young people. There may be many reasons why the training course is interrupted. We have to make sure we don't have a system where young people don't get a new chance. Then I fully agree with what was said by the representative, Mr Steinnes, about the need for early action. I'm absolutely sure that's an important key to preventing high school drop-outs. That is why I am pleased that we have made an early effort in primary school in the budget negotiations between the cooperation parties. I also fully agree that we need a professional boost, and that we need to make sure that we get more apprenticeships in place. That's why I'm also pleased that we've started a stepping-up in terms of the apprenticeship grant, so it'll be attractive for more companies to bring in apprentices. This is important. Then I am glad that the Council of State takes this problem seriously, and that measures and a comprehensive policy are now being announced for adults outside school and working life. The idea of a seamless transition between youth rights and adult rights seems very sensible to me, and I look forward to the big news, which is presented during the year, where this is to be assessed. I support the intention of this representative proposal, but I also believe that the Ministry is right to point out that any legislative changes need to be thoroughly investigated and that there are other ways to solve this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1325	The Training Act is a comprehensive law and a strong right law that guarantees students the right to education from the beginning of their first class until they are ready for further studies and jobs after high school. According to the law, everyone has the right and the ability to secure their study skills, diplomas or letters. But if the law gives rights, it's not always that life becomes such that a right is also perceived as a real opportunity – life does not go in straight lines for everyone. This case might actually seem to be a little technicality. In concrete terms, our proposal is to remove the word ‘coherent’ in the Training Act — not strange change, but which can actually give hundreds of students the opportunity to get out of the Nav system and get back into the school system. The proposal is therefore a gift package, really, to the Minister of Knowledge, who – like all of us – is concerned about the drop-out in higher education, and it is a gift package to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Eriksson, who is concerned about all those who are unemployed and who are at risk of falling permanently out of work. This option shows a broad consensus about the meaning of such a rule change. Despite the touching embrace of the proposal, the government parties, etc. shall not, however, vote in favour. I think it's a little incomprehensible and a little disappointing. I understand that it is convenient for the government to push the proposal in front of itself to perhaps propose it seam in a big message, but I still wonder that the government parties and the supporting parties, who were so annoyed in the last period that their proposal was voted down or annexed to the protocol, now do not dare to adopt a single little proposal from the opposition, yet one agrees. One could have at least dared to ask the government to give priority to this and come back with a matter – that is what we are asking for. And I think the representative Thorsen gave good figures on how many people don't complete advanced education. But no then, it seems that the proposal should now lie in a drawer until a sea can promote it and see it in a context. I don't mind drawers, especially if you're good at sorting and clearing them, but it's terrible to know that while the proposal is in a drawer, there will be hundreds of students who get their lives put on hold until they get adult rights. In working on this matter, I have spoken to many teachers in high school who see these young people, and I have met many students who have fallen out of school. I met a girl at Gjøvik University who had started again in a professional field. She said: It is so nice that I have now received this offer. If I waited until I was 25, it might have been nothing. Then maybe I could be married, have kids, etc. This is about young people's lives. While we're talking about apostasy and tearing our hair over why no more are doing high school, time goes by. In this setting, references are made to the possibility for students to be offered to change the way they take out their youth rights. Yeah, we know that, and we're happy about that, but it only applies in special cases: if you get pregnant, if you get sick, etc. They are not the ones for which there are already exceptions in today's legislation, I am concerned. This applies to those who have made a mistake, who have behaved in such a way that they cannot take out the three years they are entitled to – continuously. It's amazing that we, who are system owners, should sit and ride the rules so hard that we push out youth that we could actually have inside, while at the same time tearing ourselves in the hair that so many people don't finish college in five years. I know that there are a lot of county councils that are going a long way to get the students to finish their course, and it is usually county councils that are already working well with training today. We have picked up our proposal from the Uppland County Municipality, which has made this decision, and it has been said by several representatives that it is not certain this is the best proposal. No, but there is one proposal, and it is a proposal that works. In figures, the decision taken by Uppland County Council means that 918 students got a new right in 2014 — about the same as in 2012. And so it's like 101 young people were looking for – one must not take this offer, but of the 918, 101 were young people who were looking to avail themselves of the offer, and of them, 66 were students or apprentices who accepted the offer. We want all county municipalities to do as Uppland does. We want more than 66 in Uppland to be able to complete advanced education and get on with it. This does not prevent other good measures, but one year is long, and we owe the young to hurry. With this I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1344	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1347	I want to start by giving honor to the Center Party because they are raising this matter. There are many reasons why today’s young people are unable to pursue higher education as they had intended, or as society has provided. Then it's our job as politicians to try to fix it, so that people can live their lives the way it suits them. There is a broad consensus that education and knowledge are important. I think this is a very good example of a system that doesn't always work, and it's a very good example of something that we can do with. There is no need for young people who fall off today or who fall out for various reasons to wait until they reach the age of 25 before adulthood. It is therefore positive, I think, that the Minister of Knowledge has announced that new policies will be developed for those outside school and working life. This is about a lot. There are many representatives before me who have said very important things about preventing apostasy. It's also about it, but this is something very concrete and specific that we can do to make it a little bit easier for those who don't have a whole A4 life. We in the Left therefore share the intentions of the proposers with the proposal, but we are not on the stand right now ready to support it. That is why we want a case to the Stortinget that reviews the consequences of changing the rules for the continuous withdrawal of the right to secondary education, and we are therefore in agreement with the Labour Party on the proposal that has already been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1359	My old French teacher at high school said: Torgeir, it's human to fall, but it's inhuman to lie down. This is a proposal that in many ways intervenes in the big discussion about school for who and when. Although everyone is allowed to go to school and has the right to go to school, it's not always school for everyone. You may have made different choices, you may have made mistakes, you may have done different types of things that make a person not fit in. As mentioned by the Workers' Party's representative, there is a great deal of work against school dropout that actually intervenes in the foundation of the whole school and the system. School policy needs to be more diverse, more practical and aesthetical than it does today. One must do things before one has done. Among other things, high school electives are just one thing to offer those who are otherwise tired of school, in the normal disciplines of school, to find other arenas to get motivation, and to connect to places, for example. Kautokeino, where one can take the hunting test in the mole. So we know that on going forward the common denominator is very decisive. It's the most important single reason people fall from there. Maybe we have to go all the way through the common denominator, maybe we have to think about it completely, maybe get away from it. When it comes to apprenticeship places, which is a recurring challenge, it is very good that the government has now put in place purchasing schemes requiring me to offer apprenticeship places, which I fully support. So to the right to further training. Today, disqualification is calculated only on the basis of what you are right inside. When someone falls outside and then comes back through the vaccination course or through other schemes that some county municipalities have, it is not included in non-response statistics. So I have a really great sense of the proposal from the Center Party. The representative from the Center Party has a point that we're a little bit sluggish about not just going for it. When SV now lands on the Labour Party and the Left's proposal, it's simply because we want to see the proposals in context. If there are major issues that are going on, where there is reason to believe that these issues are really being addressed, and they are not far ahead, they are on the way, we want to see this in general. In previous cases, especially when it comes to things from the Left, where one has come before major treatments, we have gone against the proposals even though in principle we have been a few. But we've wanted to wait for one to take the big grips. This is not a matter that I thought it was easy not to be with the Center Party. I want to commend the representative for taking it up, and I take the criticism of slackness ad notam!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1376	Youth who have completed primary or equivalent training is entitled to 3 years of secondary education. The Court must be removed during a continuous period of 5 years, or 6 years when the training is provided in full or in part in an apprenticeship and by the end of the year in which he reaches the age of 24. Adults, for their part, are entitled to secondary education under certain conditions from the year they reach the age of 25. So we're distinguishing between the right to secondary education under youth law and the right to adult education. The reason for this is that the two groups have different needs. Adults over 25 years of age are a more complex and heterogeneous group than young people, and training should therefore be adapted to the individual's assumptions and circumstances more closely than in the case of young people. For example, an adult can take all or part of a subject, be offered evening lessons, distance learning and the possibility to take training in a shorter or longer time. Secondary education under juvenile law is mainly provided as a common day-to-day education. With today’s legislation, it may be a challenge for young adults who do not start or complete secondary education in the context of youth law that adult law does not take place until they reach the age of 25 years – as the representative proposal poses a problem. We know that some people who, for various reasons, have failed to complete the course of juvenile education, but who are also not 25 years old, are going to go and wait for a new opportunity in adult law. Such waiting is unfortunate and unnecessary. In practice, however, there are solutions for this group, and there is reason to believe that many of those who fall between youth and adult law actually receive an offer of secondary education. Firstly, it is possible to apply for secondary education even if the formal conditions are not met, but it is then up to the county to decide whether the application is granted. Secondly, young people who are initially entitled to secondary education under the law of their youth but who have problems taking up the full court in time may apply for secondary education under adult law. A condition for this is that there are particular reasons. This could be done, for example, by: are health reasons for which the person concerned has not taken up the full court within the age of 24 years. Although there are practical solutions for many in this group, I agree with the proposers that today’s system may lead to some people being at risk of being without a training offer while waiting to apply for training under adult law. There is a risk that they will lose the motivation to complete secondary education. I also agree with the proposers that higher education is the key to higher education and participation in the labour market. Research shows that the implementation of secondary education is a key to participation in the labour market. Labour skills requirements are also increasing. The labour projections of the Central Statistical Office up to 2030 show that the demand for labour with only primary or only partially completed secondary education is likely to decline. That is why I believe it is important that the law facilitates as much as possible completion and completion of secondary education. The government is developing a new and comprehensive policy for adults who are at risk of falling out of work and who are out of work. This work will be presented in a Communication to the EEA on Lifelong Learning and Exclusion during 2015. The notification shall be drawn up jointly with the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion. In the government platform, we have determined that the government will give lifelong entitlement to higher education. As part of this, we consider in the context of the communication to the Stortinget to introduce a seamless transition between youth law and adult law. It will ensure that everyone who has completed primary school, regardless of age, is entitled to secondary education at the time they themselves wish to take the training. I would like to stress that it is important to carefully assess possible legislative changes. There are also other ways to address the challenge of young people who do not reach the age of 24 years through the exercise of full juvenile rights, than to lift the requirement of a 5-year continuous withdrawal of juvenile law. One possibility is, for example: making it easier to choose to take out the right to secondary education under adult law even if you have not reached the age of 25. I share the views of the proposers on the need for greater flexibility, but I would advise against an accelerated legislative change now – precisely because of the ongoing work on the communication to the Stortningen on lifelong learning and exclusion. In this work, the most appropriate mechanism for a good relationship between youth law and adult law will be assessed, and the proposal for a representative will also be considered in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1398	I want to thank the Council of State for being so generous that he says that the proposal for a representative will be assessed in the Storing Message. It would have really surprised me if it didn't. Very well known, Uppland County has implemented this, and they have the best figures for it. They also have this on their Vilbli page. I also know that South-Trundellag County has done something similar to Uppland. I must be allowed to say that I am disappointed – that is what the Council of State understands, I believe – that we could not get this treated now, have done a legal work on it and perhaps even since the fall of could get these young people into school. I just want to ask the Council of State: why does the Council of State want to wait with it, and what kind of gain does he want to achieve by that hundreds of students still have to put their lives on hold and wait for adult law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1405	Firstly, I agree with the representative that it would be very strange if the representative proposal were not evaluated in that context, but it was still good to say so. I don't think there's any reason to wait in the sense that we're going to wait awfully long to address the issue. That is exactly why the work on a big message is in progress. It's been known for a long time that we're working on it, and it's going to come in 2015. But what I think that's a good argument for is to consider this proposal into a larger context and see it as part of a whole. That, I think, makes sense, because, as several other representatives have pointed out, it can also be other ways of achieving the same thing, which, perhaps after more thorough assessments, would seem more sensible – or just as sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1412	Thank you, I think it's great, and when the council says there might be other ways to do this, I think absolutely so. The Councils of State referred to the seas in their posts the exceptions already taken into account by the Ministry — whether you get pregnant, sick, etc. There may be other reasons why adult rights have to be used when you are young. There's a lot of ways to do it. The Central Party's wish here is that we are system owners. We have to have a system that is so flexible that we don't stand here arguing and tearing our hair over that the students haven't completed high school within 5 years. That's the system we have to look at, because it's not just that the students come with poor qualifications – we know that they do. There might also be things in the system, and when we discover that there are things in the system that are wrong, we want to take it up, so we can change it. I get to ask the Council of State: are there things in the system the Council of State will consider further?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1421	Firstly, I must say that this proposal is not being put to the vote, but it will be annexed to the Minutes. It's precisely because the Storting wants you to look at it, or at least not actively want to vote the proposal. I mean, there's a lot in the system that's worth looking at. I think it's worth not only looking at, but also doing something about what the relationship is between what falls under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and what is related to labour market measures, for example, and the formal education system. I think a lot of people could have benefited from getting more education and a chance to take their education instead of being part of the different labour market measures. I think it's important to look at that. I believe that when 400,000 grown-up Nordics lack basic skills, there has been a tendency that they have been pushed around the system without anyone taking responsibility for them. I think it's worth looking at. I also think it is worth looking at apostasy and the possibility of taking secondary education. And we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1428	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1444	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1451	I refer to Document 8:15 S from the representatives Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Janne Sjelmo Nordås. The document presents a total of four proposals that I would like to present. However, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter and the representatives for raising an important topic, although the conclusions are somewhat different between the parties. The main points of disagreement within the Committee were the proposal to convert the national samples into sample samples. I would therefore like to use most of my contribution to explain the views of the majority of the committee in this matter, not least because I believe that the proposers and the minority will explain their views well later in the debate. The national tests were introduced as part of the Knowledge Commitment in 2004 and in response to the fact that at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s international studies both revealed that Norwegian school was not good enough to learn away and that we had far too little knowledge of how the schools were doing. We also knew too little about the differences between the performance of municipalities and how each school delivered. That's why you needed a tool -- something that could show you how to better map your knowledge. We simply needed knowledge about the school in order to get more knowledge of the schools. So these tests have been altered several times along the way, and a large majority have defended the tests. Last autumn, national tests were carried out on 360,000 students. The 5th and the 8th steps had them in English, reading and billing, and the 9th steps had them in reading and billing. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that the Centre Party and SV will now remove this tool and replace it with sample samples. This is a tool like 65 pst. The Norwegian schoolleaders say that it is important for teachers to be able to develop school and education, and that it is 85 pst. The school owners, i.e. the municipalities and the counties, report that an important and good tool for developing the school locally. Then I have to say, with all due respect for the proposers and the minority supporting the proposals, that I have problems understanding what makes education policymakers propose to deprive the school of such a tool as it itself states is important in order to gain more knowledge into classrooms. Samples will be quite different from national samples and a much lower tool for schools. It may be typically socialist to think that you can help each student by calculating the average, but it doesn't believe the majority. If you're going to help each one, we're going to have to help each one. The national samples have been renewed and improved. Proposal No. 2 from the representatives are that you have to get a better way of presenting the samples. Here I believe that the Ministry of Knowledge has been in front of the representatives and has already done so. With four very simple grips you have now got a new and more precise scale. The development of schools and municipalities is now being measured, not just annual results. Teachers are given a new digital tool that is easier to use and less bureaucratic to use, and there is no provision for ranking between schools. This means that the National Samples tool is something that we have constantly renewed and improved. But there is a big difference between that and doing as the proposers suggest, namely removing the tests. A third proposal from the proposers is to reduce overall school reporting requirements. Here I experience a broad – yes, in fact unanimous – agreement in Norwegian policy that it is an important part of school policy. But in this context, I just have to say that a time thief is not everything that takes time. We do things in school that take time, and it's important that we do because it monitors and provides us with documentation about the students' learning. The students are entitled to that. We should keep doing that. A fourth proposal in the draft document by the representatives is to deprive the municipalities of the possibility of setting local requirements for monitoring and documentation. This is seen by the majority as a very clear violation of the school policy we have pursued in Norway every year, namely that local school owners, municipalities and counties are responsible for developing knowledge policies in their community. I have to say that the sum of first to deprive the school owners of it as 85 pst. of the municipalities that is an important tool for providing more learning in the classroom, and then refusing to introduce other tools to monitor knowledge, provides a proposal that is, to put it mildly, surprising. That it comes from the Center Party, a party that normally fights for local self-government, is even more surprising. With that, I want a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1474	The mapping of skills is important in order to be able to target training so that learning actually takes place, and educators and teachers have been surveyed every year in order to adapt education to the best of students. It is a method that is widely agreed to have an effect, and fortunately, the proposal for a representative we are discussing today does not intend to do so. But although there is a broad consensus on mapping as a method, it is timely to discuss which mapping has the best effect. We have to ask ourselves, what is the goal of the mapping? I believe that assessment for learning should be a general principle for testing students in Norwegian school. Monitoring should therefore have a purpose in addition to being only a report and control of school systems. As the Advocate General pointed out, the national tests have been amended several times during their lifetime for the better. These include: develop guidance materials to ensure that the results are not only a system-wide reporting but are used for educational development at school and student level. But it's probably also right to say that in many places this aspect gets a little bit in the shadow. It is confirmed by the evaluation of national samples carried out in 2013. In this evaluation, the teachers say that the desired effect of the tests disappears because they do not have time to enter the results of each individual student in a way that promotes learning in the classroom. This finding underlines the need to see the time use and monitoring system in the context. I often feel that the frustration surrounding local monitoring is greater than the frustration surrounding the national level. In the Training Act, we have said that municipalities must have a sound system to assess whether the requirements of the Training Act are being complied with and that a quality report is to be provided for discussion on an annual basis in the Municipal Council. There's a tendency for this to boil down to numbers, graphs and get the best possible results on the table. I do not believe that local monitoring should be banned, but it may be necessary to discuss stronger leadership in the scope of local monitoring. Is it perhaps the case that with PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS, national samples, mandatory screening tests and local screening we carry out some unnecessary double screening? With this as a hindrance, the Labour Party has proposed in the vote on the proposal for a representative that the government will come back with a case in which the overall monitoring system in the school is reviewed. The case shall include an assessment of whether today’s system is structured in a way that ensures effective time use and reduces bureaucracy, while ensuring national and local school development for the benefit of students’ learning. We're the ones who are the leaders in how the test systems are perceived and used in school. Changes in samples from 2014, such as: making it easier to measure changes over time is initially positive, but I am highly sceptical about the changes related to publication. This leads to a ranking focus at system level and not primarily in classroom learning. The focus is shifted from Petter in 10 years and his reading skills to a graph and just an average. That is not a good assessment practice. The time spent by teachers and the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy are the starting point of the proposal for a representative. Here we share the concerns of the proposers. We therefore want to vote in favour of points 2 and 3 of the proposal, which aim to make the tests more effective and targeted, and that there is a high pressure to reduce the total school bureaucracy. And just to underline it, the last thing is about a lot, a lot more than just mapping. With this, I am promoting the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1489	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1492	The school is one of the greatest and most important welfare goods in our society. Here, children and young people lay the foundation for their future. The main purpose of the school is to contribute to the learning of children and young people and to facilitate students to acquire knowledge and skills and become independent individuals. National screening tests are one of the tools for teachers, school leaders, school owners and parents to obtain information on the success of the school in developing their skills. Norwegian students perform roughly on average in the OECD area, and one third of the students do not complete secondary education. We're simply not good enough to catch up and follow up students who have learning difficulties or who need extra challenges. National tests provide information on the student, school, municipality or county council needs additional follow-up in order to achieve the desired results. 86 pst. In the NCI evaluation of national tests for 2014, the school owners say that the results are important for the development of schools in municipalities. School owners and principals have an important responsibility, and that they have knowledge of the results of the schools is a prerequisite for further development of the school. Representatives ask the government to ensure that the overall reporting and documentation requirements in schools are reduced. The Progress Party supports the intention to reduce bureaucracy in school, and believes it is important that teachers spend as much of their time as possible on students. It is therefore gratifying that the Right Party Government is already reducing red tape in school. The Minister of Knowledge received just before Christmas last year’s report ‘Reporting and documentation requirements in the school sector’. It has been developed in cooperation between the KS and the Ministry of Knowledge. The government has been clear that the work on reducing red tape in school will be a priority. The KS and the Ministry will follow up the main objective of the project, which is to reduce the overall level of documentation and reporting requirements in School-Norway. This shall apply to both national and municipal requirements. However, it is particularly true that the Centre Party proposes that no local monitoring requirements can be imposed. In practice, the proposal involves prohibiting active school ownership at local level and will weaken local authorities’ capacity to act. The proposal implies a new model for the national samples, where the samples are carried out as sample samples. The party is concerned that school owners and school leaders should use the test results to improve the performance of students at school. The primary purpose of the national tests is that the results are used to further develop the students. With this in mind, the Progress Party believes that the model proposed by the representatives here has some significant weaknesses. Samples will only produce results at national level, which we already receive information about through international studies. If only a sample of the students carry out the tests, teachers will not be informed of individual liver outcomes. Thus, the proposal undermines some of the purpose of the national tests. With the model proposed here, teachers will not be able to use national tests for follow-up and pedagogical development, and school owners will not have the necessary management information about the students’ competence in reading, Norwegian and English. Furthermore, it will be more difficult to identify municipalities with particularly strong or weak results, making it difficult to identify municipalities that need extra follow-up or that have a good school that they can share with others. The representatives ask the government to provide a presentation of the results, because the national tests provide more precise and correct information than as of October 2014, when this proposal for a representative was promoted. Recent changes in the presentation of the national samples have been made by the right-hand Party Government and, from December 2014, the results of the tests were presented on a new scale allowing for the measurement of change over time. This means that national tests are now an even more important and better management tool for school leaders and school owners. The party to the progress is satisfied that the presentation of the results of the national tests has improved and changed and that the government is already reducing the overall level of school reporting and documentation requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1518	Testing in school is something that takes a lot of people. Some consider tests to be important management tools that are essential for the development of good school provision, while others consider the testing of students as unnecessary bureaucratic time thieves who steal attention away from learning and who weaken education rather than strengthen it. So it might be possible to have a certain understanding of both views. If there are too many demands for testing, measuring and reporting in school, it can be felt as a burden, both for teachers and students, and there may be a risk that when you first start testing one thing, you get very concerned about exactly what you've decided to test. The father knows that we're getting a little too narrow a perspective on what's going on in school. The danger is that you get so concerned about getting the best results from the different tests that you lose sight of other important aspects of learning. We are at risk of going into the trap that Arve Tellefsen warned against earlier this week, that we are making the students «calculates». We don't have to go into the trap, because what our society needs is no more calculators, but whole people. But at the same time, we know that mapping and testing also have value. National tests are an important tool for teachers, school leaders and school owners. It is important to have information about results in order to develop the school further. It makes it possible to find out what works, what does not work, at school, and it makes it possible to share ‘best practice’ and it makes it possible to deploy resources and measures where necessary. And I think that if these samples are converted into samples, we will lose a lot of value at local level. So at least we should not do this without a thorough analysis of the consequences and possibly a survey of the need for supplementary tests, adapted to school and municipality levels. So it's important that the tests are designed and conducted in a way that doesn't require too much time from teachers and students, and that both the design and presentation of the results are done in such a way that they provide the best possible benefits for teachers, school leaders and school owners. So I think it's important that these tests and surveys do not contribute too much to creating a competitive society, where the students are constantly participants in a competition to make it the best possible. It won't be a good thing for learning, it won't be a good thing for social development, and it won't be a good thing for the community, which you have to establish in order for the students to have a good learning environment. Then I have a certain understanding that the proposers will prevent local monitoring and documentation requirements from being imposed. I assume that the background to this proposal is some cases where the testing and reporting regime has taken a little off, and we know more examples of that. But I still think it is unreasonable to introduce such a provision, because it will prevent municipalities from carrying out surveys that may be appropriate to address local issues. I think we need the national tests. They are an important tool for the development of the school, but at the same time we need to make sure that the test regime does not grow too large, that the tests do not narrow our field of vision, and that school bureaucracy does not become too overwhelming. I therefore hope that cooperation between the Department and the KS to reduce reporting and documentation in school will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1535	So in our proposal, the Centre Party is focusing on the so-called quality assessment system in general and the scope and arrangement of the national tests in particular. What has made me work on this matter is how both the media, school leaders, parents and sometimes some teachers overestimate what can be read from the results. National tests were not introduced because we wanted to help each student learn better. National tests were introduced to measure the individual student and class position in relation to other pupils and classes and what the authorities had set as benchmarks of competence for the steps. That was also why there was a lot of trouble, a lot of trouble, when the samples were introduced. The results of the tests were published and the results were ranked in the media. Let me take it right away, especially to the representative of Asheim: the centre party does not want to conduct national tests. So the purpose of the proposal for a representative is not to abolish the tests, but to clarify the purpose and improve the system. We believe that national tests provide important information to school authorities by checking out their status. We also record that the Education Association and the school leaders support us in this. But there has to be a match between the time and resources spent by teachers and students on these tests and the gain it brings. If the aim is to give feedback to all pupils and teachers in order to adapt their teaching and to adjust their course, national tests are not the right tool, for all students do not participate in them. Then I think it would have been much more reasonable if one had given the Education Directorate the task of making screening tests that the teachers could use. When it's warned against calculating an average of samples, I have to remind you that that's actually what's being done now. The national samples rank below and above average – lower attainment, medium and above average. All research and experience shows that there is a formative and learning-supporting feedback that is important to ensure that students progress. National samples can be used to a very limited extent to compare from year to year, sea level if changes are made this year. There are different student groups, the questions are different, and sail if there are now anchor issues that need to legitimize the tests better, that's the way it is. In particular, we believe that there are three reasons why samples should be taken as sample samples. First, sample samples will reduce the pressure to set aside time in normal hours to practice the tests. So there's going to be more time for the teacher to do real teaching for all the students. Secondly, it would make it less interesting to rank schools in the media, and thirdly, it would save resources, both for those who are going to be tested in the bureaucracy, and for teachers. Now we've just had an example of how many samples this was together. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the test hysteria is spreading to an extent that we are not served. We are positive about information and transparency, we are followers of learning-support tests, character-support tests, screening tests and user studies, but we believe it is time to limit the number of tests that students will be subjected to. In our opinion, it is about to go into a parody, and that is why we believe that the municipalities should not be able to introduce even more tests than what the authorities are already offering today. It impresses us when parents and teachers tell us how target management and test regimens affect teaching, and not least affect students. One of these testimonies comes from a mother who sails is a teacher, named Gunhild Nohre-Walldén, in a chronicle for a while back. There she writes how as a mother she experiences what she describes like this: ‘The manic use of testing and monitoring by the Oslo School reflects a sad and tragic view of learning and assessment.’ When her then fifth grade was assessed according to a total of 127 concrete learning goals throughout the school year and during the 1st to 7th year. class shall pass through approx. 350 tests, it gives us a clear picture that education policy-makers have to take seriously. Making national samples as samples is not exactly a revolution, but it is a step in one direction. Today I know that the classes practice national tests in advance to be good at solving the problems when they get them. Does it give credibility to a test that students actually can – ‘teach for test’? Not in our eyes. The question of national tests is only one element of a test regime in the process of running. Not only does it steal time from teaching and snuggle the teaching, it seduces both politicians, school leaders and parents, and most seriously: it causes some students to lose motivation and ‘door’ a little every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1559	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1562	Yes. With that, I take up the proposals No. 2 to 5 on behalf of the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1567	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1571	I have great sympathy for the intention behind the proposal from the Center Party, because one of the most important tasks we are facing at school today is to reduce bureaucracy so that teachers get more time for the teacher's business, get more time to follow up on the individual student. But it is nevertheless necessary to have some measurements in school, and then it is important that the measurements we have are useful tools in the teacher's working life. National tests are also important for the school owner, who can use them to secure knowledge of what things are like now, how developments have been, and what developments you want. However, evidence suggests that the majority of red tape occurs when the counties and municipalities are required to demonstrate that the various results are being followed up. It is therefore important that the time spent reporting and documentation in school can be kept to a minimum. A report on school reporting and documentation requirements was recently submitted. We in the Left expect that the knowledge gained there will be used to reduce the time spent by teachers for this type of work, so that more time can be spent on the students. Then there is also the fact that the Left now has a Document 8 proposal on reducing red tape for consideration in the Committee, in which we actually express a desire to reduce red tape as a whole by 25 pst. I think the bureaucracy in school isn't just about tests, it's about the total bureaucracy. Therefore, I believe that this is the case here, it may be a bit unwise if we only attack the bureaucracy that is about national tests – or testing – when bureaucracy is about so much more. But I see that the Senterpartiet and SV have promoted a proposal, proposal No. 4, which addresses the totality of documentation requirements and bureaucracy. It is a proposal that the Left wants to support, i.e. proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1580	The school was the theme when President Barack Obama gave his annual State of the Union speech three years ago. Obama was concerned about developments in American school, where a huge focus on standardized tests, ranking and competition threatened the quality of the entire school system. And to quote Obama: «... grant schools flexibility: To teach with creativity and passion; to stop teaching to the test». Developments in Norway towards a test regime are not as strong, but we go in the same direction. That's why I want to commend the centre party for the proposal to reduce the amount of tests in school and make the national samples selection samples. This is completely in line with SV's program over many years. If we want to improve the quality of Norwegian school, put individual life needs in the centre and give teachers greater professional freedom and autonomy, this is one of the most important proposals we in the Education Committee are dealing with this year. SV asked the department at Stortinget to provide an overview of tests and surveys in primary schools in the 10 largest Norwegian municipalities. This list does not exist publicly today. It shows that, in addition to the national tests, the international studies participated in by Norway, PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS, ICCS and ICILS, the mandatory screening tests and the voluntary screening tests, a number of municipalities have introduced their own screening tests and systems, which are in addition to those imposed nationally. Let me take reading as an example. The drama stands out clearly with most mandatory tools in Norwegian reading with testing at all stages. Kristiansand and Tromsø have also introduced mandatory tests at several stages, in addition to the voluntary screening tests that are made mandatory. Fredrikstad has the ‘Kartleggerer’ in Norwegian, Kristiansand has the ‘letter test’, Oslo has the ‘Osloprobe’, Stavanger has the ‘Carlsten reading test’, Tromsø has the ‘Kartlegger in reading’. Similar own tests and mappings are introduced in mathematics and English. Teachers need tests to see how their students are doing. Teachers should therefore be free to design the tests they need to follow up their elephants. But the national tests do not provide such information. National tests are not designed to provide supportive feedback to individual students and to strengthen them in their learning work. They can't be used for it. And many of the municipal samples imposed are of exactly the same character. Teachers have not asked for them. The national tests also do not say anything about which schools do good learning work. They may at best say something about which schools have the best students, but they don't say anything about where the best teachers are. First of all, the national tests confirm the nature of the school's parental background. In a study carried out by the Education Association in January of this year, 71 pst respond. members of the management are associated with their opposition to the publication of national test results at school level. Also a clear multiple, 69 pst. of the school leaders asked, they agree in whole or in part that such publication will not increase the quality of school education. When the results of the national tests have become the currency of a school market in which schools compete against each other and are measured against each other, where the principals have principal contracts where better grades lead to higher pay, and where teachers tell that weak elephants are kept away from the tests, then national tests have become a barrier to good school development, not a tool. This test culture does something about the way we look at school. Let me take Oslo School as an example, the Right Exhibition Window. There is one that sees schools as knowledge companies producing results. Schools are performance units with measurable and unambiguous measurements. The City Council has 48 targets for Oslo School. The principal is responsible for achieving these goals, and the individual teacher is responsible for achieving the goals of their students. There are strong links between the results achieved, the set-aside and the sanctions. The control parameters are directed towards the student results, e.g. national tests. The rector's contracts, which are secret, have 86 performance targets. Good results are high, bad results are not. For SV, the school is not a factory to produce results. It's a community institution, based on a broad societal mandate and a broad knowledge view. The school shall be based on the needs and curiosity of each individual student. What teachers need is no longer overarching, but greater professional freedom. If we're going to close it down, the test press in the Norwegian school must be reduced. The test press is a driver of surface learning, the learning that helps you try tomorrow – not the learning that goes deep, that the whole community screams for, and that all the elephants need. I could imagine that state councillor Røe Isaksen once said the same thing as Obama: we give the schools and the teachers the freedom to learn away with creativity and commitment, to avoid spending valuable teaching time on ever-new tests. Learning should not be about the test, but about the student.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1613	I would like to thank the representatives Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Janne Sjelmo Nordås for the draft representative for the national tests. The national tests are a central tool to ensure the quality of Norwegian initial training, so although I appreciate the debate being addressed, I disagree with the proposal. I'm busy using the national tests as the important tool they are. This means that we need to constantly work on improving them and having an open and continuous debate on their use, not least how to get the results to lay the foundation for a better school, where students learn more. The proposers wish to change the system of national samples to sample samples. The proposal involves taking away from teachers a useful educational tool that is used in classrooms around the country. The quality of the tests is reason to believe that now is very good, and the feedback we get from researchers, teachers, school leaders and school owners also suggests that. As of 2014, there have also been interventions that have led to an even better quality. Point 1: The results are presented on a new scale that provides more precise and detailed information on the test results. From 2014, it will also be possible to measure the development of schools and municipalities over time and see trends. And point 3: The teachers have also got a new digital tool that makes it faster and easier for the teacher to get in and use the results. This gives the teacher better opportunity to use the national tests as a basis for further learning for all students, both for the individual teacher and for the teachers in charge. In addition to being a good tool for teachers in classrooms, national tests provide school leaders and national authorities with a good knowledge base for further quality work in schools and municipalities. The knowledge base of the tests gives us a good starting point for identifying challenges and targeting measures to ensure improvements at school, not least in those municipalities that need them the most. There's an opportunity that I don't think we should give up, and I don't think we should take it from the local school authorities either. At national level, national samples provide useful information. Information from the samples is used, inter alia: as a basis for quality development at national level. In the future, the new system of national tests will also be able to see developments over time. In addition, national samples provide researchers with the opportunity to carry out further analyses, such as: to look at the relationship between students’ background and school outcomes. Connected with register data, you can see whether there are systematic biases in learning outcomes, for example: by sex, place of residence or social background of pupils. It's knowledge that we all have good at having, and that one should think not least the left-hand side was interested in getting. The representatives of Tingelstad Wøien and Sjelmo Nordås ask the government to propose that no local requirements for monitoring and documentation can be imposed in addition to those required by the regulations of the Training Act. That proposal involves in practice prohibiting active school ownership at local level. The Education and Training Act lays down minimum requirements for schools and school owners. A restriction on the municipalities that prohibits active school ownership beyond this, I'm critical to. It will be formally contrary to the principles of framework management, but I also have to say politically that it is a breach of the idea of local democracy – that local politicians who meet the people in the store, at school and in the school leisure system are able to make sensible decisions, and that it should have consequences for who you vote for, including in local elections. At the same time, I believe it is important to separate this discussion from the overall discussion on time use in school. It is a goal of this government to reduce the overall burden of documentation and reporting in schools. This could also mean that we have to look at some of the samples critically. Throughout 2014, the Ministry of Knowledge has therefore cooperated with the KS on a specific project that has reviewed the overall scope of documentation and reporting and has also made recommendations on what can be prioritised. There are many good proposals, and we hope to get more good proposals from the sector as well. But the conclusion of that project is that the benefits of implementing the national tests defend costs and should be retained, and that is a conclusion I agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1632	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1635	As I also pointed out in my article, I often feel that schoolchildren are more critical of local monitoring than of the national level. Both the previous time-use survey and the processes around the time-theft report, which were delivered before Christmas, problematize this. The head of the Education Association, Ragnhild Lied, said after handing over the report to what was referred to in the local survey: the Minister of Knowledge must act and give clearer national leadership. My question to the Minister of Knowledge will therefore be: Will the Minister give clearer national leadership to the municipalities and county councils at the level and extent of the local monitoring?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1642	The answer to that is no, if that means that we're going to set some kind of maximum ceiling or an upper national limit for what kind of test you can have locally. Having said that, I think it makes sense to listen to the teachers, also locally in the municipalities. And it's clear that you can imagine getting a range of samples or a device on the reporting that is more ‘nice to know’ than ‘need to know’ to use a poor Norwegian expression. But I am not aware of the situation in any of the municipalities in Norway today. If you look at e.g. Oslo and how many tests they have in addition to those that are either mandatory from the government or offered to school owners from the government, there are not many. Whether it's five, six or seven in ten years of primary school, I don't remember, but that's not an overwhelming number. Either way, I think it's a good idea for us here, nationally, to set a minimum, and then I think we should have active local school owners and local democracy to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1651	In this case, the Council of State and I disagree very much. The Council of State said in its speech that this was a useful educational tool. He also said on the radio today early that it is one of the most important tools that teachers have. I wonder how the Council of State can say this when, indeed, not all the students are involved, and the teachers are of the opinion that this does not give the optimal knowledge – i.e. the national tests. I also wonder whether the Council of State is at all concerned about whether the overall testing and monitoring regime in the school can be too large, and whether it is not the case that we, as national authorities, have to withdraw, so remove something so that the municipalities might have their tests. I wonder how the Council of State can say that this is the pedagogically most useful tool all that time not all students even participate in the national tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1660	I think it's a very important educational tool. This is due, inter alia, to: the conversion of the national tests carried out this year, making it easier for both the teacher and the school to use the national tests as a starting point for better education — adapting education with targeted training. So it's important to say that it's not that the national tests replace a good teacher. National tests can only work if they are a tool for good school management and good teachers. There are differences in the extent to which schools take advantage of the opportunities offered by national tests, but looking at the figures and trends over time, it will be seen that for national tests, their acceptance and use in the teacher’s corps are likely to increase and are more acceptable than in the past. There's more people who use them too. Then we have other important tools that I think are at least equally important, for example. The screening test at the first steps – just to discover the students who need the school all, most of all. I am also in favour of maintaining them as compulsory tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1671	SV asked the Stortinget division to carry out a survey of the extent of monitoring, testing and testing in the 10 largest municipalities in Norway. Then it turns out there's no such national overview. When the Minister says that there is a defensive level and extent of the local samples around the municipalities – without the Minister having an overview of their scope – how can they be?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1676	I said ‘my acquaintance’, but if it is the case that the representative asks me as a State Council, for example. through a written question or in the ordinary questionnaire, about the situation in the ten largest municipalities, I am absolutely sure that it will be quite unproblematic to get an answer to it, for all the municipalities that may have additional tests in addition to the mandatory and voluntary national tests have a good overview of it. I think it's important not to make this discussion very abstract. It's an interesting and important and a little abstract discussion about goals and performance management that is important to take and that can be problematic, but that doesn't mean that all the tools we have in school are automatically bad or should be undermined. The SV and the Central Party now propose to undermine one of the best-developed arrangements over time, have accepted well in the sector, provide useful information and provide an opportunity for school owners to do their school better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1683	This is not an abstract discussion, is it? It's a question of how many concrete tests and surveys are in school, in the concrete school, which the minister here proves he doesn't have an overview of the scope of. The review of the distribution section shows that there is a much larger problem than even the fear of the SV in this situation. It actually shows that even Oslo is not worst in class. There are other municipalities that have even more samples and mappings than them. Now it is clear the lack of knowledge that the Minister of Knowledge has. When it comes to freedom of method: When local government imposes on schools and teachers to use specific screening tests that they themselves do not want, does the Minister think this could be contrary to the teacher's freedom of method?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1691	There is nothing to suggest that having extra samples alongside the national tests, some of which are mandatory, some volunteers – most of which we have today, came under the red-green government, at least several of them, reasonable tests too, for example. screening tests — are against the law or breach of the training law in any way. Then there's a difference in how detailed you intervene in the teacher's working day. But that we're going to have some overall tools that make us both say something about the school's outcomes over time, and that, as a bonus, can also be beneficial for those schools that choose to use it as a tool to get targeted education even better, to figure out which students need extra follow-up, I think is an advantage, and that's an advantage we should keep. Then we're going to work to reduce the total red tape and the total reporting requirement in Norwegian school, but we're not going to start with the most important tests we have, first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1698	I would urge the Minister to go back to the ministry and get involved in the scope of screening tests in Norwegian school today, before concluding that there is a satisfactory level of it today. Freedom of method is what was behind the Sandefjord uprising. Teachers refused to carry out tests that they thought were highly opposed to the training they were going to do in the class. It disciplined them to carry out teaching in certain ways. My final question to the Minister is: Will the Minister continue to give the municipalities the right to force the teachers to carry out specific screening tests?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1705	Now I'm a little uncertain about what the representative is really asking about. If he asked about the assessment forms that were drawn up in the municipality of Sandefjord, they did not know anything about any screening test or assessment test. Then I fully agree that there are examples of developing target management tools that are so detailed and so extensive that they provide so much information that it is almost not good to know what to use them for, which can also be difficult for the teacher to relate to. So the question from the representative must be: do I want a national ban on more tests than is mandatory today? The answer to that is no. I think that's a responsibility that local school owners have. It has also happened once in a while that SV has stood up for the local self-government. This is obviously not done in this case, and the worst part of this case is that you do not stand up for the system that has helped us to check the results in Norwegian school, which has been at our best.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1712	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1717	As the rapporteur, I must thank you for the debate. It may be a little extended, but I want to thank you anyway for the debate so far. The story is very clear: at the beginning of the 2000s we got what was then called a PISA shock, but which was actually a shock to Norwegian school performance, that every five students could not read and write well enough to understand all the content of a newspaper or write a job application, and that 20 pst. by students scored at or below critical level in mathematics. There was nothing that was hot or social about that school. There's nothing that's hot or social about keeping the results secret, either. For this reason, national tests were carried out — a survey to show how this was done. It gave a tool to the school owners, to the local government all over the country, who could then deploy the extra resources in those schools that had problems. If you have two high schools in your municipality and one performs better than the other, it's very important that you know that, because then you can solve that problem instead of just keeping it as a secret in the municipality. When these national tests were introduced, some teachers said to the then Minister of Knowledge Kristin Clemet: I almost don't need them, because I can tell you what the results are in the different schools, because I receive them at my high school, and I know what the difference is. Now there's transparency about those results, and then you can do something with them. Concerns have been expressed about time use, and I agree with that. Time use should not be too extensive, so these changes have now also been made, which means that teachers spend less time getting the same information. But I just have to repeat that if there's something you're going to spend time in Norwegian school as well as teaching kids to read, write and calculate properly, then it's to know where we deliver, and where we have an improvement potential. Then it's quite right, as the representative Tingelstad Wøien says, that there was some trouble when the national tests were introduced. There may be trouble when you introduce something new in Norwegian school. But even those who demonstrated strongly at the time are now followers of national tests, because it turned out that this was absolutely necessary, something that was done to get information. I thought it was almost nice that the representative Knag Fylkesnes told me that he had asked for a mapping to find out about the mapping. Why did the representative Knag Fylkesnes do that? Well, sometimes you have to ask for a mapping to figure out what the score is. It is actually a good recognition of the importance of surveying results in school. SV and the Center Party say that they will now deprive the municipalities that school owners have the right to introduce their own tests. The most widely used example, especially on the SV side, is Oslo. Well, in September there will be elections in this country. Then there are elections in all local governments and counties in Norway, and then SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party – the red-green parties – can go to the elections to turn down at Oslo School. They've tried to do that before, the time the voters rejected it, but they're welcome to try it again. That is what local democracy is – that voters decide who should rule in the municipality, not that we should override them in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1734	Since the SV's representative was very sure to comment on the Oslo school, I have to make some comments about that. SV shoots to the right and they are busy reducing red tape. Yes then, SV, that's also Right, of course, and it's working on, but do we really have a one-sided test regime in Oslo school? That the State requires the municipality to carry out 14 mandatory screening tests and national tests during the 13-year initial training does not make us a test regime? That the municipality of Oslo has seven separate Oslo tests in addition, does it not qualify to refer to the Oslo school as a test regime? And when it is said: SV has been running national school policy itself for the last eight years — in a period of 94 pst. by the teachers of a 2011 Education Association study, the claim that the teacher’s job is becoming increasingly bureaucratic was fully or partly agreed. That's what SV did a little bit in government. Although much is good in Norwegian school, it is obvious that we have many challenges, and one of them is that we are unable to motivate our children enough to exploit their own potential. We just don't teach them well enough what they should learn. The Oslo School achieves the best results on national samples in the country, regardless of whether the students are measured in bill, English or reading. In Oslo, we've put a lot of effort into monitoring, and we've got full transparency about how the schools perform. And what's best is that we manage to lift the students who struggle the most, and at the same time challenge the best, which is important in a city with such a complex student group as ours, where four out of ten students have a minority background. Researchers who have followed developments in Norwegian school closely believe that the nation has much to learn from the Oslo school. In Oslo, there is a clearly lower proportion of students who belong to them at the least professionally than on a national basis. In addition, we know that children with low-skilled parents do better in Oslo than in the rest of the country. It shows that the Higher Education Policy, as practiced in Oslo, not only creates the best results, but also contributes to creating social mobility, and that is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1745	It's a little funny that here we have a debate about mapping, and then SV is the only party that has surveyed the mapping, while the one after the other right-wing representative comes up on the speaker's chair and says he's sure about the situation around the whole realm – and then they have no idea at all about how it's going around the municipalities. It's fascinating. Thank you for that point, Asheim! We have a lot to learn from Oslo school, but not necessarily positive. The good, the great work that is done in Oslo School is supposedly despite the efforts of local politicians to map and map and map. When we get the right of parents that their children go through over 300 tests, or prep tests, or screening, in one year, someone should wake up! What I'm asking you is, where is the loyalty in this case? Should it lie with the student, or should it be with the representatives of the local government to impose the type of method, mapping, tester to be carried out around the classes? I'm shocked that we have a number in this case that only sees the local government's needs. Here, there is simply the need for the student to be in charge of the entire scheme. We know – from research, from teaching, from parenting – that extensive use of testing affects the way you teach, which affects the ability to conduct custom training, to adapt each child’s needs. And if you don't have an overview of the size of it in Norwegian school today, there's nothing in a case like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1754	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1768	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1775	This is a Document 8 proposed by representatives of the Workers' Party to allow the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting paths. The committee has spent a long time on this matter, and we should probably spend even more time, so that we got the final recommendation from the Council of State. This would give us a better basis for making a decision in this case. On 22 October we had a hearing, and the media has also shown great interest in this matter. Norway has had a total ban on lead hail since 2005. It has been prohibited to produce, import, export, market and use lead hail. The Committee has received various reports, including: by the Directorate for the Environment and the Veterinary Institute. In its report, the Environment Directorate points out that new research into the damage effects of lead confirms previous knowledge and reveals new concerns about health consequences. Reducing the regulatory burden would increase the risk of harm to health, according to the Directorate-General for the Environment's report of 3 June 2014. The World Health Organization states that there is no safe lower limit where one can say that lead in the blood is not harmful. Lead contamination can lead to high blood pressure, concentration and memory loss, mental disorders and cancer. Recent studies show that predators such as hawks, eagles and owls are exposed to poisoning through consumption of prey animals containing lead hail. Both the Institute of Public Health and the Veterinary Institute warn against lifting the ban on lead hail. Other organisations, such as the Norwegian Hunters’ and Fishers’ Associations, point out that lead hail is the most effective ammunition, and that steel ammunition, which is the most recent option, increases the risk of damage shooting and thus increases the potential for suffering in the prey animals. Blyhagl ensures a more animal-ethical hunt, says Norway's Hunter and Fisher Federation. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research concludes with the Committee that we do not know enough to lift the lead hail ban and that we need more research in Norway. As rapporteur, I would like to thank you for your input and for your cooperation with the proposers and others in this matter. There are a number of comments in this setting, and I expect that the different parties will explain their views in a good way. I will therefore concentrate on the Christian People's Party's vision in the rest of the article. In the light of the technical advice given in reports, letters and consultations and the need for more time from the Council of State in this matter, it is clear to the Christian People's Party that we will not now open up the use of lead hail in Norwegian nature. We do not want to waste people’s health – postponing children, pregnant women and women of childbearing potential for lead exposure, where low exposures can have effects. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential to clarify further the consequences of more lead entering the food chain, that we gain reassuring knowledge about the danger of potential adverse health effects for animals and humans. It is a paradox when lead is included in the national list of substances harmful to health and the environment to be reduced and stopped by 2020 that we are now going to reintroduce and allow lead hail outside wetlands and shooting areas. An embellishment of the prohibition will, of course, help to make this goal more difficult to achieve. We're going in the opposite direction, so we're going backwards into the future, and it's only five years until 2020. I end by promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1794	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1797	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good management through the committee procedure in a very difficult matter for the Committee, as the rapporteur also stressed. It hasn't been easy. The Committee has spent a great deal of time balancing the different considerations that have been addressed to the Committee. Let me start by saying that since a total ban on the use of lead hail was introduced in 2005, it has been a controversial matter and a lot of discussion. Much of the reason is, of course, that in Norway we have a tradition and a culture to reap from what nature gives us. Many are engaged in hunting, and there is no doubt that there is a positive quality and a positive commitment to the Norwegian community around that very possibility. The fact that hunting is available to the many is also something that makes the exposure become extra big, and the hunters at the time thought that a total ban was imposed, that it was an unreasonable requirement to make the total prohibition of the use of hail. The hunters' commitment is linked to the fact that the use of lead in hail is a sovereign means of hunting. Then there is no doubt that lead has certain complications, and it has tried through the examination to clarify it in the best possible way. The main assessment of the Workers' Party is that there has not been much new knowledge in recent years in view of the issue of the consequences of lead hail. When we see that there has not been so much new knowledge, we believe that it was a good basis to stand on what we originally thought when we promoted the proposal, where we wanted to resolve the total ban. We have registered that many other parties also have the same approach to the matter. But we also wanted to follow the proposal and to open up a differentiated use of lead hail for hunting to acquire more knowledge, so it has been important for us in this process. Based on how we evaluate the matter, and with the knowledge that is on the table, with all the different points of view that have emerged, we believe that at least now there is reason to conclude that the total ban is not sufficiently professionally documented. We have also recorded, through the Committee's examination, that the Minister for Climate and Environment is unable to respond to the Committee's conclusions in the light of current knowledge on the matter. We have repeatedly tried to clarify what the Minister for Climate and Environment will recommend to the Committee, but we have failed. It may be related to the fact that it is a difficult question to solve, but it may also be related to the fact that the total ban may not have the justification it actually has. The answer has always been that we need to spend more time assessing the question, and in this respect one must be uncertain about following the professional advice that, among other things. come from the Environment Directorate. When the case was finally concluded, I believe that we now have an attitude from the committee that it is reasonable to follow and properly follow, and it will end up again, and that is that we are opening up to facilitate the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting paths, i.e. a differentiated opening, while asking the government to follow the development of lead hail and gain more knowledge of the health consequences of the use of lead hail in hunting. I think that is a sensible approach to a matter that has been debated for a long time, where there are points of view that are broken, and where it is undoubtedly right that the professional assessments that are behind are difficult and not clear when the matter is to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1810	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for the way in which this matter has been dealt with. There has been extensive treatment, and there has been a need for knowledge related to the issues raised. I agree with the last speeches related to much of what was said. A total ban was introduced in Norway in 2005 and, following the introduction of the total ban, there has been a very large public debate on health effects associated with the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting areas over time. This debate has not been just a Norwegian debate. Sweden also had a ban in its time related to lead hail, but they softened it up, and it might make sense that we tick that road when we're going to make our decisions. Nevertheless, that is the information we have today, which will form the basis for the decision that we are going to make. We've got a lot of input into this case. Since 2005, there has been considerable uncertainty about the harm caused by the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting areas, and the hunters’ organisation has expressed a desire to soften the ban. On the other hand, we have received warnings that lead can be harmful. There is no doubt that lead hail is the most effective ammunition available when hunting, in view of effective hunting. The most significant of the alternatives that could be used is likely to be steel ammunition, with which there is a tendency to become a little extra damage shooting. In addition, it can also not be dangerous, but it can ricochet more if you go hunting – especially outside the tree line, where a large part of the hunt is of course – and ricochet risk is something you have to take with you. At least we have made a thorough assessment, and we agree with Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Association, which believes that using lead hail in small game hunting ensures a more animal-ethical hunt and – I kept saying – a safer hunt. After an overall assessment of both benefits and disadvantages, we have found that it makes sense to soften the ban on lead hail at this stage. Then it is also that when we say that we are going to do it, we recognize that this is a demanding matter, and therefore we think it makes sense that, after the ban is softened, we also look at developments in the future, so that we take it with us in the future when this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1825	For the Advance Party, it is a joyous day when Stortinget today wants to facilitate the use of lead hail for hunting outside wetlands and shooting paths. The Progress Party, no later than 2013, promoted a proposal identical to what we are dealing with today, but it was then voted down with the previous government. In this case, with a minority government, we see that the real majority on the Storting becomes the opposite of what happened to a majority government in 2013. That's a good news for hundreds of thousands of hunters in Norway, but it's not least a strength for the democratic majority in this house. It'll always be a good thing to have more thoughts in your head in most cases. Purchasing lead hail poses environmental challenges, especially in wetlands, where the ban will continue. But there is no doubt that lead hail is the most effective ammunition available today to kill the prey and perform a humane hunting exercise and the most effective killing of the game. Government parties support Norway's Hunters' and Fisheries' Associations in their view of the use of lead hail in small game hunting, which ensures a more expensive hunt, and that lead hail is safer for hunters, as there is a greater risk of ricochet using alternative ammunition. Another side of this case is that it is obvious that there is a background between research and science. It seems that many researchers have concluded with phase before research projects have been started, and that belief comes before science. I mean, I mean, the I.A. has picked up the tests that have been done on lead found in predatory birds. They have demonstrated clear weaknesses in the studies and believe that leadammunition is most likely to be a very small source of uptake of lead in predatory birds. At the same time, we see that there is a huge gap between Swedish and Norwegian studies. The Swedish report from the Swedish Food Agency «Bly in Game Meat» has a rather different and much more nuanced picture than what was claimed in the debate in Norway. This points to the Norwegian Association for Forestry, which organizes about 70 p.m. of the privately owned hunting area in Norway. This debate, with many input from many organisations, of which most natural and environmental organisations are very disadvantaged, is also about democratic decision-making. Is it all users of nature across the whole country through healthy interests, which are, in fact, hunts, who should be able to decide little more about their own lives, or is it urban organisations that are not at all interested in hunting, who will decide over those who want to cultivate their hunting and nature experiences and interests? Finally, I would like to thank the parties who voted to allow the use of lead hail for hunting outside wetlands. I know that for someone there has been no easy case. But it is good for the case that at the end of the treatment it became a broad majority, and as we all know – a broad majority stands far better than a dirty majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1843	The centre party is part of the majority of the Stortinget that will today decide to lift the ban on lead hail. We believe that the decision taken today is going to be a sensible decision. There has been a very controversial issue since the ban came in 2005, and there has been a major public debate. The discussion we have had in the committee has also involved a great many people. That in itself is good, but it also means that a number of nuances have emerged in relation to the issues of both the environmental and health aspects of the case. We also believe that the availability and possibility of hunting and harvesting nature through the type of activity that hunting is sensible, and it should be possible to make good use of it. The ban we have had since 2005 has had a number of negative aspects related to small game hunting. In addition, the Centre Party considers that one should avoid maintaining prohibitions that lack excessive justification and evidence. The adverse effects of lead hail in small game have simply not been documented in the way one has tried by environmental authorities. Sweden has also chosen to soften its ban. The centre party maintains that lead hail should not be used in wetlands or on shooting tracks. We believe that this is a reasonable distinction. Contamination has not been detected on land, but with wetlands and shooting paths, it differs both from the concentration which one may have associated with specific shooting paths and that wetlands may be a major problem because birds grazing in these areas may have lead hail. Former speakers have argued that there are advantages related to lead-haul as ammunition compared to steel. It is such that light hail loses faster speed and energy necessary to penetrate the wild, and since lead is a soft substance, it does not give rise to the same danger for the ricochet that steel ammunition can give. So a little bit more about the environmental impact, because it must be allowed to ask questions about some of the studies that have been done, and some of what has emerged from environmental authorities during the committee's examination. Many of the objections are about lead in general, not lead hail in particular. It is simply not professionally documented concrete damage due to lead hail. For example, the Environment Directorate has re-assessed and writes in its report that new health impacts are being identified. But it relates to deer game, and deer game is killed by rifle munitions, which are today lead munitions. It is not about small wild shots with hail, and therefore about lead hail. Thus, when the Veterinary Institute now submits a study through a letter to the Committee on Lead in Norwegian Birds, it is that of 268 birds registered for a 40-year period, there are three cases that may be related to ammunition. But neither is there one able to say if there is lead hail or riffle munitions it relates to. Some of the arguments that emerge on the question of lead hail as such or lead on a more general basis are somewhat amazemented. None of us disagree that lead loading from different sources can be a problem, but if you want to maintain a ban that has been discussed as much as this, you must also be able to have some kind of documentation that goes on lead hail especially as ammunition. I think the documentation that has now come has not been overwhelming. It is also the case that the Naturvårdsverket and the Chemical Inspectorate in Sweden conducted a survey and found that the incidence of hail was one hail per 25 m2 in the forest and one hail per 100 m2 in the mountain of 100 years that was documented. Then there is no reason to say that lead hail used for ammunition and shooting small game is a major pollution hazard in itself, if – as we are doing today – one chooses to keep wetlands and shooting lanes apart. All in all, it's a sensible decision that's being made here in Stortingen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1872	I would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur-general for the work he has done on this proposal. Then I have to say that I am quite surprised that this came up at all – to remove a ban on lead hail in a situation where lead is one of the 30 pollutants we want to phase out by 2020. When it comes to reintroducing the use of lead hail, I am amazed at how one has intended to phase this out completely by 2020. Or are you going away from the goals you've set before? The reason for being against the spread of lead in nature has been the case rapporteur, that there is no lower limit where you can say that lead in the blood is not harmful to health – so there is no lower limit. Ammunition is one of the — if not the — main sources of lead distribution in Europe today. The professional environments are unique, both the Institute of Public Health and the Veterinary Institute oppose the lifting of the ban. The Environment Directorate has carried out various risk assessments. Lead is a dangerous environmental poison and a serious problem if it spreads in nature. Then I think the previous speakers who are in favour of this change are asking a little wrong, because they are asking for a professional assessment of why we are going to maintain the ban. But given the damage to lead, the burden of proof must lie in the benefits and reasons for reintroducing lead hail, and what makes it so much better than the alternative ammunition. Because the consultation with the Committee of the Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Associations agreed that lead hail may have marginal advantages. The alternative ammunition has the full quality needed to carry out good hunting. What everyone agrees on, which is crucial, is the distance to the animal, it's velocity, and it's the spread of hail. Instead of going for the lifting of the ban, the ban should be allowed to last, so that the alternative ammunition is developed, which is clearly competitive and has the same quality as lead hail. This is a field where Norway is in the front, we were early out with a ban, but there are also bans elsewhere. It is in California, and Baden-Württemberg is looking at the same prohibitions. I have no doubt that this is something you will see in the future also elsewhere. On the left, we believe that this is regrettable. I think that those who are now in favour of this suspension have an explanation problem considering how they intend to phase out lead in Norway by 2020. I do not believe that there are any professionally sustainable arguments for lifting the ban on the grounds that lead hail has significant qualities that are better than the alternatives we now have. But a little optimistic in the end: even if you lift the ban, there is no requirement to use lead hail, so for my own part, I hope that most hunters still take environmental considerations, still add to basic health issues, are not willing to take risks, and use alternative hail in the years to come, even though the majority of the Stortinges are doing what they are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1887	I can assure the representative Fredriksen that I have with me both the urban values and my district values in this matter today. When I bought a dwelling in Oslo more than ten years ago, we were lucky enough to take over an old housekeeper's seat up in Groruddalen. It says in the shadows that we have hunting rights in East Marka. But when we checked this with the plan and building kit, it turned out that there was more to it than that – that it was in this skate. I am more used to making good food from good game that I buy at Coop Alnabru than I am to hunting. It is also often the case that the elected representatives have to decide on matters on which we ourselves do not practice. For me, it's a good rule to talk to a lot of people to get advice. I am happy that I know hunters – I know hunters who are also cooks – and we have listened to recordings from various professional bodies in the hearing that we had in the committee, among others. The Swedish Veterinary Institute, the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research and the Institute for Public Health. I feel that those who have worked thoroughly and scientifically with the problems are saying that the less lead exposure, the better. Yes, they say there is no safe level of exposure. Furthermore, both Norwegian and foreign students show that meat from wild shots with leaded ammunition is a significant source of lead in those like this, even if recommended procedures for slaughter and cutting are followed. Because many of us are happy in the game, the number of people in danger is not negligent, and we find about 30 pst. higher lead content of people like even a wild. This found Helle Margrete Meltzer out in 2013. Lead is also a heavy load in nature and must be limited as much as possible. I'm, like Aasland, busy that hunting should be available. I asked the hunters in the committee if it was such that with this ban we made hunting less available, because it was terribly expensive to buy ammunition. But I did not get a good answer that overestimated that we have made hunting less available with the ban. Yesterday, on the other hand, I received a letter from Atle Siljørd: "I myself am a hunter and am really provoked by the fact that it seems that the use of lead in shotguns is legal again. As a hunter, I would like to have a good management of our wild resources and avoid the spread of poison metals in nature. I think there are very many of the NJFF's members who agree with me." Otherwise, I thought that the case spokesperson, Andersen Eide, has done well for the case. SV has no suggestions but to allow them to be banned. For SV, it is incomprehensible that on the same day that we are going to decide that we need an action plan on the road towards a non-toxic everyday life, the bulk of the population goes in to ease the ban on lead hail we have had since 2005. We vote against it, and for us it is a day of sorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1906	This is a embarrassing moment for the Workers' Party, people in the Right who take the term 'knowledge-based policy' seriously and perhaps for some in the Center Party and the Advance Party. It is also a embarrassing moment for Norway's Hunter and Fisher Federation. I quote from the setting of an environmental action plan, which will be debated in a moment, where it says that the Committee ‘shows that it is very expensive to clean up when environmental pollutants are first spread in nature’. The ban on lead hail was introduced in 2005, precisely to prevent the spread of lead in nature. And I quote from the majority vote in the case we are now debating, where the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party say that they «recognizes that lead-haul hunting poses environmental challenges and can cause health damage. Lead is a heavy metal that does not break down into nature and accumulates in the food chain». And also that lead hail is dangerous to animals and birds etc. So right, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party know what they're doing, with the Center Party, it's more unclear. Everyone in the Committee on Energy and the Environment who has cared about reading the pile of professional warnings knows what it means to lift the ban on lead hail. Anyone who did not sleep during the committee hearing on the matter knows that an overall professional community strongly advises against lifting the lead-haul ban. However, the parties who wish to lift the ban make hardly enough attempts to explain in a factual manner why they ignore all professional advice and warnings from the Swedish Institute of Public Health, the Swedish Veterinary Institute, the Environment Directorate and others. We hear here in the hall that the adverse effect of lead has not been detected, has been refused, etc. This does not match what Norwegian trade unions have told you and tell you. The seemingly most burdensome argument is that the majority ‘supports Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Associations, which consider that the use of lead hail ensures a more animal-ethical pursuit and is safer for hunters’. [[NJFF]] [[...]] But did not the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Center Party at all hear after when the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishermen's Federation were asked about this in the hearing? On direct questions about the fact that for the last ten years of hunting without lead hail, more damage protection has been recorded, the Norwegian Hunter and Fisher Federation responded clearly and clearly no. On direct questions about alternative types of hail are worse than lead, Norway’s Hunters and Fishermen’s Associations replied equally clearly no, but added: within a secure range of shots. I assume that the majority's intention to lift the lead-haul ban is not that more people should shoot at unwarranted lengths. As is well known, Norway’s Hunter and Fisher Associations in their own brochures on alternative halam munitions from 2008 and new shotguns from 2010 make it clear that alternative hail is as good as, or better than, lead hail. New tests confirm this further. At least this has made an impression on someone in the right. After having failed to get the Environment Directorate to go along with its own professional integrity – good Environment Directorate! – the Environment Minister Sundtoft has been responsible enough to ask for more time, but even that has not found it worth listening to. Back it says what is an unquestionably huge population figure that has no interest whatsoever in the fact that the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre are being abused by a tiny minority of leadhaglen enthusiasts to increase the new lead load in Norwegian nature. There is an overall professional environment that wonders what all these games add to the concept of ‘knowledge-based’. I am pretty sure many members of the Norwegian Hunter and Fisherman Association are also bluffing about their organization today. Another respectable association has shown that one is willing to ignore both professionalism, the environment and public health when some particular group in the context requires it. This ‘seier’ is going to cost Norway’s Hunter and Fisher Federation a lot of credibility. The lifting of the lead-hail ban is therefore taking place at the same time as the Right, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre show their great concern for the environmental problems by adopting an action plan for a non-toxic Norway. Should you laugh or cry? I am smiling, because the only logical consequence of an action plan on environmental toxins is that the lead hail ban is being reintroduced. That's what the Green Party is going to work for, and the rematch is about to begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1938	The effort to reduce emissions of pollutants is an important part of the chemical policy, with the aim of continuously reducing emissions and the use of pollutants in order to stop emissions in 2020. Today, the Stortinge also examines two representatives' proposals in Innst. 146 S. The proposals address the need for more offensive efforts to achieve the environmental objectives and to protect people and the environment. Lead is such an environmental poison. The new report of the Environment Directorate provides, as is well known, professional grounds for strict regulation of lead hail. I notice that an overall committee, like myself, is concerned about the health and environmental effects of lead hail. Furthermore, I note the proposal for a decision, where the government is asked to follow the development of the use of lead hail, and to acquire more knowledge of the health consequences of the use of lead hail. I want to make sure that the Environment Directorate closely follows the development of this field nationally and internationally. The health and environmental impact of lead hail discharges must be balanced against other considerations. The preservation of animal welfare and effective killing are important considerations to be taken into account. It was in this balance that I obtained further advice from the Environment Directorate. The councils of the Directorate are made available to the Storting. The majority of the Committee would point out that they are concerned with the welfare of animals, including game, and would like to add to the humane practice of hunting and the most effective killing of game. By means of the proposal for a decision, the Stortinget takes a direct view on how the prohibition of lead hail is to be implemented. I take note of the proposal for a decision and, as a result of the Storting decision, I will entrust the Environment Directorate with the task of drawing up regulatory proposals in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1953	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1956	I refer to my post, where I said that lead is on the national list of substances harmful to health and the environment, with the aim of reducing and stopping use and emissions by 2020. The question is then: how does the Council of State expect us to achieve these objectives, which are only five years away, when the majority today will allow the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting paths?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1963	The size has joined the national target of halting the use and release of lead by 2020, and an embellishment of the prohibition on the use of lead hail will lead to increased emissions of lead. So increased emissions will make it more difficult to achieve the goal, but I notice the majority's position and will, of course, take care to follow up the Storting decision, with a view to differentiating the lead-haul ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1968	My question is going to be a continuation of the same thing. If we are to phase out lead by 2020, it will not be possible to do so with the decision that the majority is now making. Then my question is: When that action plan is presented, will the Council of State, in the context of the action plan, reconsider a ban on lead hail?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1975	Now we are working on the action plan, which I come back to in a later case today. I want to say that this is natural for me to notice the position of the majority of the committee, and I want to follow up the decision of the Storting, with a view to differentiating the lead-hail ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1980	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her balanced response to some of the issues raised by the Committee in dealing with this matter. And I assume that the Minister for Climate and Environment also has a clear idea of how to meet the time up to 2020 and stop the use and release of priority pollutants. But I want to stress and confirm also in the Stortinget that the Council of State in the exchange that has been between the Committee and the Council of State, not in one area, in one sentence, has recommended the Committee to maintain the total ban. I want the Minister for Climate and Environment to confirm that very observation – i.e. that the Committee has not been recommended with one sentence to maintain the total ban on the use of lead hail.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1987	I have received several enquiries from the Energy and Environment Committee on this, and I have replied to the committee that the assessment is complex and contains several alternatives. I have also said that I needed more time to assess further follow-up. It is true that I have not answered that in concrete terms, because I have asked for more time to balance the various issues that I perceive the Committee itself has been concerned about. But the professional assessments are made available to the Storting, and then I base the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1994	Yes, something that is also a little important for the Storting's handling of this matter is what the Minister for Climate and Environment chooses to give advice to the Stortinget, and with today's total ban on the use of lead hail, it is essential to be clearly confirmed that the Council of State has not responded to the committee in such a way that one advises the Committee and the Stortinget to lift the total ban, in the light of the reports from the Environment Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e1999	There have been different recommendations, which are quite complex, and what I asked for more time is to assess the complexity of this. I have also noticed that the Committee has said that it should acquire more knowledge of the health consequences of the use of lead hail. And I want to make sure that the Environment Directorate closely follows the development of lead emissions, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2005	I understand that all the Ecotoxic Councils received by the State Councils have clearly gone towards discouraging the reopening of the permit to use lead hail in Norway. So it's referred to as another important argument, as the Council of State also mentions, that animal welfare considerations count. As I mentioned in my post, the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishermen's Association itself confirmed in the hearing that in the ten years of very extensive use of alternatives to lead hail at all, there has not been any record of increased damage to lead hail. So the question is, does the Council have any other information, which suggests that there are actually animal welfare differences between the use of lead hail and the use of alternative hail?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2012	The Council of State has no information other than that given to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I have received various assessments of it and said that there have been complex assessments, which I have asked for more time to go into. But all of these assessments are made available to Stortinget, and now Stortinget has presented its position in this case, which I am following up, and I am not sitting on any other information that I have not allowed to flow to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2017	I am aware that the Council of State does not have any information other than the information on which she is sitting. The question was: does the Council have information to suggest that there are animal welfare differences between hunting with lead hail and hunting with alternative hail? Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association obviously does not have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2024	I have asked for professional assessments from the Environment Directorate, and that is what I have allowed to flow to the Stortinget. I have not actively asked for anything else in this, so I have received different information, and it was doing these different considerations I asked for some more time. It chose Stortinget not to give the Council of State, so I refer to the decision of Stortingen and follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2029	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2034	The removal of the ban on lead hail is a struggle that has been waged by a close collection of hunters' and fishermen's federations around the country. ‘It will be a joyous news to get if the decision goes through’, says the leader of the Alta hunter and fisherman association Knut Kjeldsberg. We in the Progress Party are also some of them, who have been active participants for many years to solve this problem. But strong forces also point to the problem and the environmental challenges that lead pose in nature, which we put ourselves behind. The removal of lead in fuel to the fleet is a positive measure in that context. At the same time, it is important to stress that there are even more sources of lead that need to be focused, and through knowledge, there is a possibility to generally reduce health-threatening emissions in Norwegian nature. When it comes to the use of lead hail, there are several factors that speak for and against. But for the Progress Party, it is superior to the perspective that one is concerned with preserving animal welfare, even for game, and wants to add up to a humane practice with the most effective killing of the game, but also in terms of the security of the hunter. At the same time, it is recognised, as mentioned earlier, that hunting with lead hail poses environmental challenges and can cause health damage. To this end, we propose the following proposals for decisions: ‘The government is asking for follow-up on the development of lead hail and to gain more knowledge of the health consequences of the use of lead hail in hunting.’ I have full confidence that the Minister for the Environment will carry out such work in a good and appropriate manner. Similarly, a ban on wetlands and shooting tracks is retained. All in all, we believe that one through such a system has maintained a balanced and sensible use of lead hail, where one takes care of the need for a humane practice and the environmental challenges that lead poses in nature and the food chains. The party of progress has worked through a series of years to remove the ban, and for the same time the Labour Party has voted against it. Today's decision is in many ways a milestone and a brand day for everyone who is engaged in a humane practice, so I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate everyone with a good decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2056	It is a matter that has created a lot of debate, which is to be decided here today. That might be the background for the answer the different parties gave when they were asked before the election about their position in the lead hail case. It was the Labour Party that had the most unclear answer, precisely because we would go into the matter thoroughly before we drew a conclusion. I record that the Left and Christian People's Party, which was early out with clear answers – they wanted to lift the ban – now does not stand for it, and that there was also discussion at SV's national meeting. But just as difficult this matter has been. I refer in this context to the good introduction that was from the representative of Terje Aasland. The professional discussion has to some extent also been marked by strong words. In terms of the nature protection page, I think that the representative Arnstad was in a good way the documentation you received when you have asked for it in relation to the bird. It is particularly pointed to some examples of seabird, on duck, that they may have found hail in duck, not because of shots. But it is not now proposed to open up the search with lead ammunition in wetlands. The two countries in Europe which have a ban on the use of lead hail are the Netherlands and Denmark, which are mainly hunting in wetlands. Norwegian nature is something different from Danish. Another discussion is linked to the health perspective, which one should also take seriously. I have also gone into the hearings that have been held, and recorded the fact that what has been commented on food and uncertainty is related to riffleammunition, and that it is difficult to get answers to the question: Has hunting with hail any significance for human or animal uptake of hail into the organism? There is no doubt that the general opinion among those who are actually hunting is that lead is the most appropriate to carry out an ethical hunt – I would otherwise suggest using bismuth rather than steel, which some have compared to here. However, it is not without reason that Sweden, which assessed the ban, chose not to introduce it. So I would say that when it's said that it's now going to spread 260 tons of hail, it's going to undermine the credibility of the counter-arguments. Because if a count of the more than 80,000 hunters who last year used to hunt small game, it had to mean that each of them shot over 100 shots of lead hail in pursuit, that is, outside the shooting range. That, of course, is totally unrealistic. It weakens the argument, unlike that of amanuensis Segalstad, which shows us an alternative way to think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2067	If not, we will be discussing a proposal for a representative on a knowledge-based natural management, how much of the point is the importance of creating what is called objective and valueless professional knowledge as the basis for natural management in Norway. We have now gone through a procedure where there is still a vocabulary around the issue of Norwegian professional environments has understood the difference between the effect of a rifle and the effect of lead hail. Don't do that. What is quite doubtful is that all heavy Norwegian professional environments – the Environment Directorate, the Swedish Institute of Public Health, the Swedish Institute for Natural Research – are completely unanimous that lead hail should not be allowed in Norwegian nature. I have twice now asked the Minister for the Environment if she has evidence of the claim that it is more expensive to use lead hail than alternative types of hail. The Hunters and Fishermen's Association did not have it. The Minister for the Environment twice chose not to answer the question, and it is difficult to interpret it as something other than that the answer is no. Nor does she have evidence that it is more expensive to use lead hail than alternative types of hail. So we end up with a decision in Stortinget later today that is the opposite of being based on the objective and heavy expertise available. Fortunately, however, we have a way out: the environmental action plan that is coming, and this representative looks forward to the fact that the action plan – to which we are coming back – will be managed in a way that is more knowledge-based than the one we are receiving today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2074	The representative Hansson calls for knowledge-based evidence in this area, and there is just a little bit of the problem: there is no knowledge-based evidence that lead hail itself is the source of the kind of pollution that some of the representatives here today say it is. We in the Center Party have reviewed the reports that have come. The report of the Environment Directorate on lead exposure via food refers to the consumption of deer game. The Scientific Committee on Food Safety took this into account in 2013. Deer game in common with rifle munitions and has very little to do with lead hail. Similarly, the same report states that the consumption of lead hail is 260 tonnes per year. This must be proven to be wrong, because it must mean that in small game hunting in Norway, there are between six and eight million shotguns. You don't normally do that. About 220,000 small game were killed in 2013. What we know is that probably 80 pst. of the shots this is about, were fired on shooting tracks, and the use of lead hail will still be prohibited. In the case of the veterinary institute’s survey on predatory birds, carried out for a 40-year period from 1973 to today: Of the 268 predatory birds they have examined, three – three birds of 40 years of age – may be compatible with lead from ammunition. But they can't say if there's lead from rifle munitions or hail munitions. It must sometimes be allowed to also review the reports that are sent to us, and actually look at the facts that are presented to us, and what is knowledge-based and not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2083	I think it is quite striking with what enthusiasm you go into the professional assessments of the adverse effects of lead hail to find weaknesses in them. You really go after every piece, and you find one, you think it undermines the entire professional board. But it's now that there's a broad consensus that lead is environmentally harmful. Lead is harmful to health, and what those who now want to lift the ban do not respond to is precisely the professional basis for why lead is a better ammunition – animal welfare better and better ammunition than alternatives. Because there's nothing there, and that's exactly the reason that has to be the basis for making a change. Otherwise, there's no reason to make a change. In that case, the precautionary principle should be the basis. We have a ban that works well. There are alternatives that work well, just as well as lead hail, and then that's what we should still stick to. Even more serious is the fact that, on the basis of this Document 8, we are abandoning the objective of phasing out lead towards 2020 – unless I understood the Council of State error. Because if she bases this decision on the Environmental Action Plan, we have in reality gone beyond the objective of phasing out lead by 2020. I hope it's wrong -- the left will at least take it up again. Lead is one of the most dangerous pollutants we have. It's important to phase it out. There is good alternative ammunition today, and it could develop in the future as well. This cancellation is no reason to go into it. Here there are a few, but strong, lobbyists who have wisely managed to win at some parties, and I will at least work to make this turn around and reverse as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2092	I stand here to defend the former position of the Left and had come to the example with the claimed spread of lead of 260 tons. That was about. 80,000 small game hunters who had solved the opportunity to hunt small game last year, and they must each shoot more than 100 shots of hunting – except wetlands and outside the shooting range. When I bring this up, it's because I'm incredibly concerned that we're going to have a research and knowledge-based, rigorous environmental legislation in Norway. But then it must also be credible. I have also read – in addition to the other hearing opinions I have read – an article from First-Amanuensis in Resource and Environmental Geology at the University of Oslo, Tom V. Segalstad, which thus says that there are no environmental and health problems associated with the use of lead hail for hunting, especially in the areas for which it is now open. As I said, I am strongly attached to strict environmental regulation. I am in favour of it being knowledge-based and research-based, but I also record that when a serious nature protection organisation such as the Hunters' and Fishers' Association tries to approach the issues they are concerned with, by asking questions about documentation, they do not get a good answer. I think that is a challenge, because I believe that effective and strict environmental regulation – as we need – must also have legitimacy. If not, we will undermine respect for strict environmental legislation. That is the problem of today's ban: that one does not have that legitimacy. That is why I think the Committee has come to a balanced conclusion on a matter that has been discussed for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2102	I react a little to how representatives use what they claim to be objective research, and that objective research requires a ban on the use of lead hail. Then I almost have to ask: what objective research? Because there is so much difference between what stakeholder organisations reveal in the research that has been carried out, there are so many differences in what Norwegian research has come up to, and what research has been done in our neighbouring countries, that I have to simply ask: what objective research is there to be shown, if there is no wish to use this research – or this belief – politically? Because at the end of the day, that's the policy we're talking about. So to the ethical -- what is the most effective killing of small game, and the use of lead hail. I've been a hunter for years. I've been hunting a lot, and I think I dare say one thing: That's 100 pst. Of the hunters prefer lead hail, is perhaps taking something too hard in, but that 80–85 pst. by those who hunt, prefer lead hail because of effective killing, is not very far from the truth. Because there is no doubt that it will kill much more effectively than the alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2109	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2127	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2134	The case concerns both Document 8:87 S for 2013–2014 on an action plan for a non-toxic day-to-day life and Document 8:104 S for 2013–2014, which is a proposal from SV to ban environmental pollutants. I would like to thank the Committee for a good job. There has also been a good hearing just before Christmas, 16 December, where very many organisations and stakeholders gave us important moments in dealing with these Document 8 proposals. It is also very nice to note that the Committee reached an agreement on an action plan for a non-toxic day of life, and that it will be adopted here today in the United Kingdom. A number of the products consumed daily by Norwegian consumers have a high level of pollutants that have both health and environmental effects, and there is a broad consensus that the use of pollutants should be reduced. Toxic and endocrine disrupting substances can cause harmful effects separately, but they may be particularly harmful when combined with each other. Norway has committed itself to limiting the spread of environmental pollutants through the generation target and has stated that emissions and use of substances posing a serious threat to health and the environment shall be continuously reduced with the aim of halting emissions by 2020. It is very positive that the Committee has agreed to ask the government to draw up an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. It is also important that the action plan should include action against environmental pollutants both nationally and internationally, measures for increased supervision and control, consumer information and, in particular, industrial dialogue. It is an important step forward for Norway that we can now have such an action plan that both Sweden and Denmark already have, and this should lead to a long-term effort towards the goal of reducing the use of pollutants. The need for more control and supervision was raised several times during the hearing held by the Committee in this case. Many of the banned pollutants are still in constant use, and the illegal use of such pollutants has to be detected to a greater extent than at present. The Committee also agrees to call on the government to ensure that international regulation and prohibition of the most dangerous non-regulated toxins in products available in Norway are implemented as quickly as possible. In addition, the government is asked to work internationally to ensure that all products containing harmful chemicals have a content declaration showing which substances and the amount of substances contained in the products. Opinions are shared within the Committee on individual proposals and also on the extent to which an international process can relate to national measures. I'm assuming that the different fractions will explain that separately. From the centre party we are concerned that the international processes take a very long time. Seven years ago, substances with particular concern were included in the EU candidate list, and over these seven years, 22 substances have been finalised. At the same time, the list and candidate list now cover a total of 155 substances. If you don't get any progress in this work, the list will grow further, and there will be an unsustainable situation. For this reason, it is also the case that several individual countries have introduced their own regulations. Denmark has, for example: a ban on parabens in products for children under three years of age. It is often used in impregnated textiles, typical park suits and raincoats. And Sweden has for the first time appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union for the absence of restrictions on endocrine disrupting substances within the time limit set. It is precisely one of the main problems of international work, that the insidiousness seen in the EU leads to the cessation of the phase-out of dangerous substances. Both the Danish Government and the European Parliament's Committee on Justice support Sweden in this matter, and it is also important to look at what Norway is doing in this way. International regulation provides good protection against pollutants, but we cannot sit still and wait for EU regulations to come into place. The central party believes that when several countries are in charge of their own legislation and dare to go ahead, Norway must also have the courage to do so. In sum, it will also be able to press forward stronger and faster international regulation of pollutants. Voluntary labelling schemes also play a central role in reducing the amount of environmental toxins, and the discussion of the space for action of national regulation does not least lead to the very importance of labelling schemes. In this context, the Swan Label is an important issue. We look forward to adopting the issue of an action plan here today, and I will also be allowed to address the proposals No. 3 and 4 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2157	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2160	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur, who I think made a very good contribution, and who has brought forward a matter we in the Labour Party seem to be very happy. Today, we are getting an impact on what was our aim when we promoted this proposal, namely an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. We know that around us there is too much poison -- in the packaging in our food, in our clothes. Not least, we also find a lot in toys for children – drugs that we know are not good for us, and that even to a small extent can affect us. Special child is exposed, and then there is a paradox that there are also children who are at risk of getting the most married. As Marit Arnstad said — the toxins can be bad even in small amounts individually, and in combination they can be terribly harmful. We need to know more about this. There is a need for heavy cleaning in order to get toxins out. The other Scandinavian countries have already adopted an action plan against poison, and it is high time that we did so in Norway as well. After the decision we make tonight, we expect, of course, that this will be a high priority for the Minister, that work will begin immediately, and that the plan will have to be both concrete and binding and deliver actual results. It must therefore also contain a follow-up to the work. Because we know that we already have some toxins that are banned, but that are still used a lot. In Sweden, the supervisory authorities have found illicit toxins in more than every 10 products they have examined. The monitoring of toxic substances in Sweden doubled fivefold following Sweden’s action plan. This has meant that the Swedes have become very active on the international track as well. We expect, when we get our own action plan against poison, that it will be at least as ambitious as that of the other Nordic countries. Of course, the best thing we get to international with other countries is that we get strict international rules. That is why we support all initiatives that the Norwegian Government will take towards the EU and towards international efforts to get the most married. However, international work should not be a resting place for what we do here at home in Norway. If we want to, we can do a lot more ourselves. It is easier to change Norwegian practice and to give safer goods to our own consumers than it is to put in place international legislation. So for the Workers' Party, this is by no means either – or, it's a both – and. We're going to work internationally while getting married to Norwegian consumers. We hope that the Minister will take an initiative towards business. Because it's clear – business can do a lot more than they do today. They have a great social responsibility, and if the information comes out well, I'm sure there will also be something that will pay off for them. Norwegian consumers do not want to be married. I think those who go in front have a lot to do with it. We already have some tools, and we know that they work very well. The Swan brand scheme is one example – an important measure that gives us consumers the opportunity to avoid poison, and we are told which toxins we are at risk of getting in. That is why the Workers' Party, together with the Green Party and the other red-green parties, has made a proposal here to strengthen schemes that we know to work, such as the Swan brand scheme and the Consumer Council. The background to the proposal was a health perspective, but it was also to take care of nature. Married is not good for nature. We need to get toxins out of nature, and this, of course, must be an important part of the action plan that the government is now going to undertake. As an opposition party, it is not so often that the Workers' Party gets an impact on its Document 8 proposals. That is why it is particularly gratifying that we now seem to adopt our proposal unanimously that we should finally put in place an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. But a plan can be so much different, and it won't help unless the plan is both good enough and sufficiently followed up. That is why we in the Workers' Party will continue to follow this case to ensure that the action plan gives us what we want: a non-toxic everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2177	Wants the representative to address the proposals No. 1 and 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2180	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2185	The representative of Aukust then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2188	Environmental toxins are increasingly used in products we use and surround ourselves with every single day. It is demanding for consumers to deal with, not least because we rarely know what the products we buy contain. Even I had a visit to the Norwegian Institute of Air Research in my own daughter's bedroom. For one day, the air was tested. The result was discouraging. More than 300 different chemical compounds were discovered, many of which were carcinogenic, endocrine disrupting and fertility reducing. How all these drugs work together, we don't know too much about. Many people talk about a cocktail effect of the different pollutants we're surrounding. At my house there was probably plastic toys, wall paint and electronics that went out, but you can't be sure. We also know that clothing and packaging can contain large amounts of environmental toxins. It's a cross of thought that we're encouraged to wash new clothes twice before we put them into service. However, although environmental exposure to the body is reduced by this, environmental pollutants end up in nature. Once they're introduced into a product, it's almost impossible to avoid human beings and nature being exposed somehow. Also the air of the staging representative Helga Pedersen and in a nursery on Tøen was tested by the Norwegian Institute for Air Research. Although there were variations in which drugs were found, the extent was the same as in my home. Something has to be done, and I am very pleased that the government has announced that it will draw up an action plan for a non-toxic day of work, and that the Stortinge agrees today on just such an invitation to the government by decision-making. The action plan must be concrete and committed and contribute to better consumer information, more knowledge and stronger supervision and control than at present. Voluntary labelling schemes are an important tool that helps us as consumers to make good choices in everyday life. The Swan label is for example: well incorporated. I believe that the government in its new strategy needs to assess how labelling schemes can be used to stimulate more – both businesses, the public sector and consumers – to opt out of products containing pollutants. First of all, however, we have to work internationally. The few products we buy in Norway are produced in Norway. If we are to succeed in reducing the number of environmental toxins in products, we must therefore work internationally, especially against the EU. Norway is an integral part of the EU internal market. It is therefore limited in our ability to adopt national bans on pollutants. For example, ESA has: notified that they consider bringing an action against Norway in the EFTA Court, as a result of the introduction in 2013 of a national prohibition on the content of perfluorooctanoic acid, PFOA. We will address the same issue if we try to introduce strange rules on content declarations. It is therefore essential that the government give very high priority to international work in the announced strategy. Fortunately, we see that the EU is working a lot on this issue. A list of harmful pollutants was drawn up by the Environment Directorate in 2007. Most of these substances are currently either regulated in the EU/EEA or there are proposals for such regulation. Today, only two to three of the 21 substances identified by the Environment Directorate in 2007 are not regulated, proposed or assessed as not posing a significant problem. This is mainly due to the introduction of the EU Chemicals Directive REACH in Norway in 2008 and demonstrates the value of having a common regulatory framework in this area. Once the EU has decided, a market of 500 million inhabitants will have a significant impact, not only on domestic production in the EU, but on output in countries that want to sell their goods to the EU. While we must work for international regulations and bans to limit the number of new pollutants in the products we surround, we must help clean up old sins. Many fjords and ports in Norway are heavily contaminated by former industrial activities. An example of a cleared port area is Oslo Havn. The results are good. The fjord is cleaner than in decades, and the city's inhabitants can again swim and fish in the fjord without worrying about health. Several such projects are under way, including: in Bodø, but there are still many who have not developed good plans and put in place cooperation between the owners of the ports, municipalities and the state, on cleaning up. The government has increased the allocation to 72 million. kr – for the work on clearing up fjords and ports in 2015, which provides a starting point for launching projects in several places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2209	In our everyday lives, we are exposed to products with complex compositions of an organic and inorganic nature, whether food, clothing or play. In this context, it is important to have good branding arrangements for goods, so that as consumers we may be able to retain the freedom of choice to choose from products that we do not want or that may have harmful effects on us. As consumers, it's not always that we view something as harmful when we're exposed to it in small quantities. Unfortunately, this can contribute to the creation of a skin of safety, as it depends entirely on the properties of the different substances, and not least on the composition of substances, which have an impact on our health. I find out that the work on this important matter is taking too long when it comes to international rules. I totally agree with that. The progress batch will point out that much good has been done in the Nordic information work linked to eco-labelling. As many people have said, Svanemarkt is a good brand and is the official Nordic eco-label. The topic was also debated in the last Nordic Council meeting at the end of January – in Åland. A lot of people are concerned about this problem. Furthermore, the Sundvolden Declaration states that the government will work to ‘restrict the spread of pollutants’. The government has, among other things, signaled that it aims to develop its own strategy for the work on the pollutants. Then it is important to stress that for the Progress Party, consumer concerns are highest on the agenda. The Progress Party believes that the most effective regulation and reduction of substances harmful to the environment are achieved through international agreements, since the release and dissemination of pollutants is also a global challenge. In this context, it is important that we have a common understanding of what one considers to be pollutants. The Progress Party argued that this work should be knowledge-based, so we look forward to getting the government's strategy for the management of environmental pollutants and a strategy for dealing with environmental and regulatory issues. A joint committee agrees that today's legislation is inadequate. There is a need for revision and renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2224	Plays that damage the ability to have children, food papers that leave fluorine on the brown cheese, and clothes that can cause cancer, disrupt hormones and cause diabetes and behavioral disorders – that is what we are talking about today. This is not the first time the theme has been put on the agenda. In the past, the Consumer Council has provided research pointing to the risk of use of endocrine disrupting substances in cosmetics. At that time, the Consumer Council launched an iPhone programme to help consumers choose products without endocrine disrupting substances. The Christian People's Party called for an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. In this context, there has been particular concern about parabens, which have been used for years to prevent fungi and bacteria in jars and tubes. Researchers have suspected that parabens can lead to poor sperm quality and testicular cancer in men. They also put parabens in conjunction with the increase in breast cancer. Today we have guidelines on the concentration of these substances in the products, but no information that the combination of several products with these substances can produce a endocrine disrupting effect, a so-called cocktail effect. The cocktail effect means that substances that are harmless in small amounts may nevertheless have endocrine disrupting effects when combined with other substances. There is a need to spend more resources on control and supervision. We also know too little about the damage the poisons can cause. Therefore, more documentation and research is also needed. In a survey carried out by the Consumer Council before Christmas, nine out of ten replied that they wanted stricter regulation of harmful chemicals in toys and other products. According to Our Country, both Sweden and Denmark have action plans for a more toxic everyday life. This has led – as several have mentioned earlier – to the fact that the Swedish authorities have fivefold the supervision. Swedish authorities have found an illegal number of dangerous chemicals in 10 pst. of the products examined. Toys and electronics are those product groups where dangerous chemicals are most often present. In its annual evaluation, the Swedish authorities note that many companies are too poorly aware of the rules applicable to toxic substances. I am pleased that the Storting is today gathering to ask ‘the government to draw up an action plan for a non-toxic day-to-day life’, a plan that includes ‘measures against environmental pollutants both nationally and internationally, measures for increased supervision and control, consumer information and industry dialogue’. A strong international pressure is very important to approach the goal of a non-toxic everyday life. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinget ‘is asking the government to work for the fastest possible international regulation and prohibition of the most dangerous non-regulated toxins in products available in Norway, based on updated technical recommendations from the Environment Directorate’. In addition, the government is asking ‘to work internationally for all products containing harmful chemicals to have a content declaration that shows which substances and quantities of these products contain’ is also very good. Finally, I must say that it is a pity that we do not get a majority to include the collection of unused medicines as part of the action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. Pharmacies are currently receiving unused medicinal products. To what extent drugs are delivered back there, we do not really know anything about it. Trials carried out in some municipalities, where one has included medicines in the municipal waste system, have been a success. I'm afraid the reality today is that very much is being washed down at home. In general, I believe that in order to succeed in the collection of environmentally hostile waste, the systems must be as easily accessible as possible. That should also be the case here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2246	I think it is a bit special to have this case right after the decision – or at least it has been set – that you should reintroduce the use of lead hail. And then we ask for an action plan to combat pollution! Now it's positive, this is a very positive case, we need such an action plan. I would also like to commend the government, which has already announced that it wants a strategy against pollutants, and we have a total increase that is agreed that here we need to put in a much stronger effort than what has been done so far. We are exposed to a wide range of chemicals and endocrine disrupting substances every day. It's in toys, it's in cosmetics, and it's in electronic goods – the list is long. It is both an important health issue and an important environmental issue, because it is spreading and accumulates in nature. It has to be worked in two parts. We need an action plan that is specific to what we need to do in Norway. It has been shown in the past that both Sweden and Denmark have good action plans. It is important that the plans are concrete and that there are proposals on how to – and willingness to – follow this up in the years to come. At the same time, active international work is needed. It is clear that EU legislation is important, we are part of it, and we must have an active policy to ban and limit substances that are dangerous to the environment, even within the systems of which we are part. In terms of whether Norway can go further, the Left considers this to be an important part of the action plan to be presented and an important assessment. If that is possible, we are willing to introduce our own bans, but it is clear that we need to be careful not to go beyond a regulatory framework that is comprehensive within the EEA. It's a borderline rise that we're assuming will be a central part of the action plan. We have to use the tools that we have. Public procurement requires awareness, at both state, regional and local level. It is important to have access to the necessary knowledge and to make use of the opportunities offered by conscious purchases, in order to ensure that they are not unnecessarily exposed to health risks, including to influence development and to limit the spread of environmental pollutants in nature. Then we fully agree that eco-labelling schemes are important. The Swan label has an important task; it is a way to show the population how to make easily environmentally friendly choices and how to easily avoid harmful substances that are harmful to the environment and to health. There is a mechanism that should definitely be developed to exploit its potential, and the Left will come back in natural forms in the context of the future budgets, where this is a central part of the discussion. To the proposals for decisions: we support the first two. One is that we are asking for an action plan from both a national and an international perspective. Then there is an order for the government to go actively into international work to be a driving force to limit the use of pollutants and to get amended legislation that could also include Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2263	Every day, people in Norway are exposed to chemicals from many different sources. Small amounts of different chemicals are found in everyday products such as games, cosmetics, electronic equipment, construction products, food and medicine. Today, we don't know what we get when we shop, because lists of ingredients are not legal – when you ignore food and cosmetics. Even in-store toys contain chemicals, which can cause diabetes, ADHD and cancer, says the Consumer Council. The thing is that neither those who sell, nor those who buy, know whether the contents of the goods are harmful, and it is frightening to think about. We can't have it that way. So I'm glad we're getting a deal on an action plan today. I hope that the government will make the action plan powerful and give him the seriousness of his venom. The action plan must include a sectoral programme for training in the commercial sector, strengthening the knowledge of the school and the training of the HMS and the working environment in the workplace. Here you can build on the good work of the Swan brand. It's really sad that there won't be multiples to introduce national bans on the most dangerous environmental pollutants around us, when the EU resorts to bans. I am sorry when the lot in this room writes in the note that ‘Norway should be careful to introduce specific national bans on pollutants’. The Minister for Climate and Environment wrote in his letter: ‘I cannot see that there is an action room [[...]] SV would like to be banned at international and European level. At the same time, we have to see that the EU's work is going very slowly, and it is wrong if the government sacrifices the security of Norwegian consumers in order to maintain a good relationship with the EU. There is a national space for action. It's unlikely what you're doing if you just want to do. Norway has more options than jobless waiting for the EU to penetrate and listen to other than the powerful European chemicals and business lobby – the same lobby that opposed the introduction of REACH. Denmark has gone beyond EU legislation and adopted national bans on certain environmental toxins in the product directed at children. When individual countries take the lead, it will help to advance international processes for stricter regulation. Requirements for content lists and effective information campaigns are actions that can be implemented quickly, as is too much. tobacco salt. The EU has created an extra problem, which we should not leave at home. Negotiations are now under way on the TTIP Free Trade and Investment Agreement, between the European Commission and the United States. Here is the EU chemicals legislation on the negotiating table. The US and US businesses believe that European chemicals legislation is at home in trade. The US pesticide and biotechnology lobby CropLife might say more clearly what the United States thinks is the problem of REACH in their recordings. In my translation they write that the EU's regulatory practice on chemicals is in contrast to its US approach, and they write that scientific-based risk assessment as a basis for regulatory regulation should not be overrun by the incorrect and politically driven use of the precautionary principle, as it happens in the EU – I have here the reference, which I provide to the referee, which can find it afterwards. The EU is on the defensive and has promised not to reduce its chemicals regulation. It doesn't promise so well for fast international legislation. A negotiated outcome between these two major acts is most likely to lie between the EU REACH and the USA’s desire to remove the precautionary principle. If that's the situation, we in Norway have even better grounds for strengthening our own legislation. Strong regulation is important, but it is also important to ensure that current legislation is maintained. That is why we need stronger supervision and control than we do today. Swedish supervision revealed illegal substances in more than every 10 products they control, and their new action plan gave them more than five times the frequency of supervision, and I hope that our budgetary processes will lead to a strengthening of the capacity of both the Food Authority and the Environment Directorate for sampling and supervision here. In the same way, I would like to stress that the Consumer Council is doing an important job to increase the level of knowledge about pollutants, and the Consumer Council should also be strengthened, in addition to the Eco-label Swan. For a good reason to go to the front in Norway, our special geographic conditions are, and we'll have to talk about that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2292	Thanks to the rapporteurs from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, who are now raising an important environmental and health problem on the political agenda, and thank you to the rapporteur for good work and for a good result. As early as 2006, the Storing Communication «Together for a toxic-free environment» stated that all significant sources of environmental exposure should be eliminated and environmental environmental concentrations reduced to pre-industrial levels. Why pre-industrial level? Well, because we humans are designed for environmental exposure at pre-industrial level, and we get sick with higher environmental exposure than that. The environmental challenge is at the seventh and, last but not least, far more than chemicals and legislation. It's about having an extreme material consumption that creates exploitation of resources and creates short-sighted use of products. In its opinion, the Consumer Council states that the major change in chemical exposure over the past 50 years has been closely related to a radical change in consumption patterns. Children have a lot more clothes, shoes and toys. We replace clothes and equipment much faster. Children are exposed to chemicals on a completely different scale than before. And, as the representative Astrup pointed out, new products produce much more chemicals than they used. In order to really bring the environmental problem to life, we need to change our attitude towards consumption, and we need to realise that consumption at Norwegian level 2015 alone creates problems for both quality of life, health and the environment. An overall increase agrees that toxic products pose dangerous challenges and suffering to the population. We already know – it is well documented – that pollutants accumulate in nature. We know the striking results where polar monks die on Bear Island and polar bears are born dubious on Hope, and we know that these are just the visible results of a profound poisoning of the entire environment. This type of problem obviously requires coordinated State action, addressing both the production, use, dissemination and results of environmental pollutants. For this reason, it is good and long overtime that the start-up shot is now being made for an action plan to reduce this problem in Norway. However, in order to deliver results, such an action plan needs to be implemented in at least four areas. Firstly, as the representative of Astrup also pointed out, there is international work to prevent the production and placing on the market of dangerous substances, not least through the EU Chemicals Directive, which was also mentioned by the SV. Substantial efforts are also required in the sampling and mapping of environmental pollutants in products that are in any case traded in Norway. Of course, those substances that pose the greatest health and environmental hazards must be banned in Norway — even if this means that we end up in the tens of thousands of EEA bodies. And more information is needed for consumers, so that they can make informed and safe choices in the store shelves. That is why this proposal would have been even better if we had received a majority in favour of the proposals that the Green Party and several other parties have promoted for one of the most effective measures we already have to protect adults and children from environmental poisons, namely consumer information through the Consumer Ombudsman and the Swan brand – it is being downgraded today. These are good instruments, and they can be far more effective if they get resources to increase their efforts. Today, government parties will not commit themselves to so much more than to produce a document that can contain much, or little, in the case of commitments. Nevertheless, it is a major step forward that planning is now being launched that professional environments and stakeholder organisations in turn can influence for the better in the road. An environmental poison plan only produces results if we are willing to implement the concrete measures. Today, while the good idea of an environmental poison plan is being adopted, the Right Party, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre demonstrate how we do not solve environmental problems in Norway. They decide to increase the environmental impact in Norwegian nature by resuming the spread of the aggressive pollutant lead. This is a way to get off the slope of the jump, which should be done to imitate. But we want ourselves better luck with the continuation. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2313	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2316	I'm glad that the Storting, like myself, is concerned with reducing emissions and spreading environmental pollutants. This is an important part of chemical policy, and the Sundvolden platform states that the government will limit the spread of pollutants. Environmental toxins, together with climate and nature diversity, are the three main environmental challenges we face. In Norway, we have an ambitious national target for the pollutants – the environmental target – which says: ‘Emissions and use of chemicals which pose a serious threat to health and the environment shall be continuously reduced with a view to halting emissions within: [[...]] The government will present an action plan on environmental pollutants. It's going to show us what we're going to do in the future to achieve our goal. A priority list of 30 substances and groups of substances has been established, and these are the objectives and our action plan. The action plan will include, inter alia: say something about the need for knowledge, how we handle environmental toxins in products, in industry and in waste. It will look at trade issues and what requirements consumers can impose, and, last but not least, whether there is a need to strengthen supervision and control. Here it's also important to remember that we're on the right track. Emissions of most of the substances on the priority list have been substantially reduced since 1995. We suggest that the action plan be completed before Easter. I note that the Government in the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment is asked to draw up an action plan for a non-toxic day-to-day life, and that this action plan will include international and national measures, increased supervision and control, consumer information and sectoral dialogue. This is in line with what the government has intended to mention. Environmental pollutants are spread most through long-range emissions and through emissions from products we import into the country. International regulations, globally and through EEA cooperation, are therefore the main means of stopping the use and release of environmental pollutants. Norway has been among the most active countries in working to optimise international chemicals legislation. The EU has the leading chemicals legislation in the world today, and Norway is working to improve it. Among other things, we are part of the REACH-up group of countries that affect the EU for a continued ambitious chemicals policy. In addition, we work closely with our Nordic colleagues. We also work systematically to reduce emissions and spread here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2337	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2340	At the end of January we received the news from ESA that Norway is going to lift the ban on the use of PFOA – I refer to these letters – in textiles. This is acid which, according to the Environment Directorate, can damage reproduction and be carcinogenic. The Council of State said a little about it in its statement, but the Council of State could say something more about what Norway is doing internationally to exert pressure, so that toxins such as PFOA and others. are removed from products sold in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2345	It is true that the special Norwegian ban on PFOA is under pressure from the EFTA Surveillance Authority (ESA) and from the EU. It has now been formally notified that ESA considers that action against Norway is being taken in the EFTA Court on this prohibition, which illustrates the difficulty of accepting national prohibitions. It is much better that we work internationally to make EU chemicals legislation even more ambitious than it is today, although this is the most ambitious in the world. I think the most important thing we do is through Nordic cooperation. Every time we meet environmental ministers in the Nordic region, this is on the agenda. We know that we, together with Sweden and Denmark, can do more here, and we have also contributed to the new Commissioner in the European Union that this remains on the agenda in the European Union. We believe that we are reaching the target at the earliest speed through the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2352	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good contribution and for being so clear and clear about the coming of the action plan, and it will also come relatively quickly. In addition to setting clear rules, we as politicians can be involved in influencing both consumers and the market. I think it is a pity that there will not be a majority today for our proposal to give better consumer rights and more consumer information. But what I want to challenge the Council of State is what you can do to the market and business. We've seen in other contexts that it's worked well, we've done it, for example. almost got rid of palm oil in a lot of products because business has gone ahead. We know that the Council member Bent Höie has taken the initiative to get rid of salt in food. My question to the Council of State is: What responsibility does she have for business, and what initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure that businesses take this responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2361	I think it is natural to include these kinds of issues in the action plan that we are now working on. But that the business community has a great responsibility, and that we as consumers also have a responsibility when we get more information, I fully agree with the representative Auversut in. This is precisely what this is all about – getting more attention to the challenges that environmental concerns are facing: that we are getting information about what consumers can ask more about when we are out shopping, what we are looking for, that there is labelling of products that we can look for, and that business knows what they are going to do, including through international legislation. It is the type of problem it is natural to address in the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2369	I fully agree that consumers need to be given sufficient information. That's why I think it's a little strange that we couldn't have already adopted what is suggested by almost all the opposition parties, to give consumers better information by strengthening the mechanisms that we know to work well. My other question is about one of the other issues that is not adopted: what do we do with medicines that are not being used? I think it is a bit alarming that the majority writes in their remarks that they do not know whether this works well enough today, while at the same time not being part of a proposal that this should be included in the action plan that the Council of State is about to make. What is the reason given by the Council of State that the majority parties cannot vote in favour of this proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2376	There is already a return system for unused medicinal products via pharmacies. I am not aware that this scheme does not work as intended. If so, it is natural to view this as part of the action plan, but I believe that this is a return scheme that works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2381	It is very positive that we are receiving a signal about an action plan before Easter. I think that's a good signal. On the issue of the market and business, I would like to stress the need for an industry dialogue with selected industries, perhaps especially the clothing industry and the toy industry, with which I know they have good experience in Sweden. I am also credited with the ban on perfluorooctanoic acid imposed by Norway. It's a very harmful substance, and I think Norway, despite being charged by ESA, will look at it with boldness. The Norwegian prohibition is justified. I just as much believe that the end of the show can be that Norway and Germany together are able to push through a ban across the EU. Then Sweden has sued the European Commission of the European Court of Justice for not adopting any criteria in terms of hormone inhibitors or endocrine disrupting substances. My question to the Council of State is simply: how will the Norwegian Government support Sweden in its fight against the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2390	I have given political support to my colleague in Sweden for the efforts Sweden is making in this area. As I mentioned in one of my other answers, we have a very close cooperation with Sweden and Denmark in this area, where we also exchange information, so that some countries can take more responsibility for one substance, and we are careful to inform each other. Here is really one of the areas where Nordic cooperation works well. We were also invited with some EU countries to join the new Commissioner and work on it. So here I think it's important that we continue the good Nordic cooperation to overcome that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2395	First, I must thank the Council of State for the answer she gave in connection with medicines. For the Left, it is important that we now have a decision that we should have an action plan. We have not addressed all the additional proposals, precisely because we want the action plan and should deal with it and not do anything that could delay its progress. Then it's about the priority pollutants that are to be phased out. It is a 2010 NOU where it is believed that this could be phased out by 2020. There are only five more years, and my question to the Council of State is: Is it possible to achieve an action plan for the objectives set by the Stortinget in the past, or are we already too late?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2402	We're working on the goal of achieving this, and then it's also an advantage that the Storting ends up saying that this is an important work. When I say that the action plan will be Easter, it is because the government has already started that work – it is in our government platform, we are concerned about this. Now that the Storting is also involved, we get an action plan that includes what is important to address, and together we do what we can to get this in place by 2020. We now know a lot more about what these toxic substances are doing to us, so I hope we can agree on this by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2407	Environmental toxins have, maybe because of them. the name, has had a strong tendency to remain within the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, despite the fact that this debate has always been about, that this is a very serious health problem. Many attempts have been made, from many organisations and also from the undersigned, to arouse the health sector's interest and sense of responsibility for this problem. The question is whether this problem has been addressed by the government, and whether we are going to see a much stronger commitment from the health minister and the health sector to the environmental poison work that the government is now putting up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2412	I hope you will, because as the representative Hansson says, this is very important in health. We saw it in PFOA, where we've gone in and tried a national ban, but we see that the EU has different rules for PFOA in food and other products. We are now working to get a total ban on this in all products. Here it's important to look across what you've seen so far -- it's a shame for the issue not to include food in this, because it's so important to our health. This is also a new example that when we get new knowledge and know more, we also have to act in a different way, and we're going to work together as governments with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2420	Science and technology have given us many opportunities, including substances and chemicals that simplify everyday life for us, that are used in industry and also in medicine. It is not possible to imagine that in Norway we will stop using non-toxic substances and chemicals, but it is important to ensure that people are not exposed to them in their everyday lives. And there we are not today, as many have said here in the hall before me. The representative Rasmus Hansson referred to pre-industrial times, and at this point I agree with those who say it was better in the old days. The representative Nikolai Astrup referred to the study carried out by the Consumer Council and NILU in two children's rooms – at Nikolai Astrups and in mine – and in a kindergarten in 2013. It detected many carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting chemicals. In fact, this study revealed hundreds of chemicals in children’s rooms, many of which were harmful. There are no parents who want to expose their kids to this, and we have to protect people from the environmental poisons. When we buy food at the store, we know that there are very strict requirements for how food is produced and how it should be noticed. There is also a comprehensive supervision of food, but on a number of other everyday products that we use, we consumers are much more entrusted to ourselves when we stand there at the store shelf, whether we are going to buy toys or sunscreens. That is why it is very good that there is such a broad cross-political consensus that this action plan should be drawn up and that there is also agreement on many of the measures. However, I would like to stress the importance of proposal No. 1, which is about strengthening the Consumer Council. They have put this issue on the agenda in a very effective way in the media and have made apps that help many producers now, for example. label their products with parabens, such as: has made my hairdresser cut out shampoos containing parabens. Therefore, I believe it would be very important to strengthen the Consumer Council in the further work. When it comes to the collection of medicines, I might not be going to do it to the big case today, I hope we get back to it. Where I live, it is 12 miles to the nearest pharmacy, and then the system we have today does not appear to be very accessible. The change of reply also shows the importance of Norway being a driving force internationally, and then perhaps the slogan could be: Consumers in all countries, unite!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2437	This is a good day for the children and for the future, because when we now get an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life, I am very pleased. As a co-sponsor, I have been excited if this was possible. There is reason to be concerned about the large amount of environmental toxins present in products that we surround ourselves with, toxins that affect health and the environment – in clothing, toys and cosmetics, yes, almost everything we have around us. It is difficult for us consumers to know what to choose or choose, without imposing stricter requirements on the manufacturer. As long as manufacturers are not required, they continue to produce dangerous goods. Both Sweden and Denmark have their action plans, and it is good that Norway follows suit. The plan must be concrete, it must be compulsory and it must be of benefit to consumers. The action plan will affect the manufacturers I am talking about, to remove the dangerous substances. Today, we have voluntary labelling of products, as the Swan brand is in Nordic cooperation. That's good. It's a built-in brand that people trust, and it should be further developed and processed. The requirements of the Swan Label are more stringent than those of the authorities and the environmental requirements should also apply to public procurement. I hope that several votes to include the collection of unused medicines, because that is important. These are toxins that are dangerous, and this may also be a response to antibiotic resistance. Unfortunately, we know that a lot of medicines are in the sink or in the trash. Even with good arrangements, plans are good. As consumers, we are dependent on solutions that are simple to use, and I want to praise the hormone check-app from the Consumer Council, which provides answers on the content that affects our hormones. That's very good. The Danish Consumer Council has its app – «Tjek Chemien». It helps consumers to identify the content of products, such as: toys for children. If the product is not present in the base, a request for information may press the manufacturers. More and more products are in the base, and that's something we can do with common Nordic efforts even more of. Consumer organisations in the Nordic region must cooperate, as the Council of State says, and I know that Danish thinking already has its projects on which they want to cooperate to influence both national parliamentarians and the European Parliament, and to form networks of researchers and civil servants. If our ambitions to phase out poisons and endocrine disruptors are to succeed, a common European effort is required. Through an action plan, available modern tools, requirements for more non-toxic products and more attention, consumers will be able to get a more toxic everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2475	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2482	I will present the vote on behalf of the President-in-Office. In this case, there is a shared committee with a large majority and a minority. At first I thought of going through what we agreed on, and then promoting the majority's view on the matter. I expect that the minority will thoroughly review their views on the matter. The Committee wishes to refer to the two-part objective resulting from the robberies agreement. The management of predators is based on a policy whereby the objective of ensuring the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature must be combined with an administration which, in total, helps to mitigate conflicts and counter insecurity within the two-part objective. The agreement also states that all predator management should be based on scientific and experience-based knowledge, and emphasis should be placed on regional governance, respect for property rights and the quality of life of individuals and communities. The Committee is of the opinion that private ownership is important in order to ensure good management of natural resources and that private owners of land have a particular interest in operating their property in a long-term perspective. Then we get to where we separate layers. The majority of the Committee refers to the reply letter from Tine Sundtoft, Minister for Climate and Environment. The compensation, compensation and subsidy schemes to which the grazing industry has access are set out here. This is compensation for grazing animals taken from predatory game subsidies for preventive measures against predatory game damage grants for operational conversion due to predatory game compensation for grazing restrictions The majority of the Committee considers that there are currently good financial arrangements for owners of grazing animals affected by predatory game. Good arrangements are important to ensure a viable grazing industry. The majority in the Committee refers to proposal 8:1 S for 2014-2015, where one promotes a proposal to amend the provision of compensation in Section 19 of the Natural Diversity Act, so that it is equivalent to Section 50 of the Act, which deals with compensation in protected areas. The majority would point out that § 50 is a derogation from the rules otherwise applicable to the liability of the State and that there are a number of financial arrangements for animal owners within and outside predatory areas. The majority will therefore not recommend the proposal set out in Document 8:1 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2514	I have to admit that when this proposal came to the table, I thought that this is a proposal that I have to go a little bit deeper into with regard to the problem, because it is clear that the areas that we are talking about here have a particular challenge. However, the fact that I wanted to get involved in the matter also made me think about what the government has done since it joined. We see that the number of claims for damages in the case of predator damage, only from 2013 to 2014, was reduced by approx. 25 pst. There is today a very good dialogue between the department and regional predators, it is far better today than it was. We see that in almost all cases of the harvesting of predators that the predators have appealed, all the anchors, except one, have gone through the department, and the predators have got their will. There is a very important reason why the number of claims requested has decreased by 25 pst. It is then that this government has been responsible for a job and has had a substantial reduction in the compensation with a background in predators. In addition, when you want to have special arrangements, it has become, in sum, to me personally that you really want too much. You could say it so that today's government has reached through where the previous error has been made. So if we go in and we look at what we actually pay out, it's 150 million for 2015. kr to replace grazing animals taken from predators. That's 75 million. kr related to tamrein, which is approximately 75 million. kr related to livestock. So you can go in and see that it's paid $44 million. In addition, the government has stepped in and increased the means of conversion. Then I have to say that my conclusion is equal to the conclusion of the rapporteur. We've actually done a very good job in the area, and this is really asking to get in both bag and bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2521	The principle of the two-part objective is fundamental in the management of wild game. It implies that the objective of ensuring the survival of all the major predatory game species in Norwegian nature must be combined with an administration which, in total, helps to mitigate conflicts and counter insecurity. It is not difficult to admit that the two-part objective underpinning the conciliation is demanding. I understand the despair of both agriculture and the reindeer industry over attacks on grazing animals from predators. We have to take it seriously. Therefore, it is essential for the Christian People's Party to strengthen confidence in predator management, among other things. by effective removal of harmful animals and by ensuring that the populations do not grow beyond the established stock targets. That is why good compensation arrangements are also important. We believe today that we have good financial arrangements for owners of grazing animals that are affected by predators, and we do not support this proposal. At the same time, I would like to add that we need to be flexible and ready to adjust these arrangements if they do not capture what they are supposed to do. The management of predators is essentially about the management responsibility and safeguarding of viable populations on the one hand and the safety of individuals and the agricultural and reindeer industries on the other. Managing responsibility is the basic idea of Christian-Democratic environmental policy, and the aim of all policies shall be to solve current challenges without jeopardising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. That is why we need to manage the soil in the best possible way and ensure sustainable development. This includes, inter alia: taking responsibility for biodiversity. Therefore, it is absolutely vital for the Christian People's Party that the four great predators, bears, wolves, yews and gloats, be managed in such a way that we take our share of the responsibility to secure viable populations of these. The management of predators must be knowledge-based. At the same time, it shall ensure the quality of life of individuals and local communities. The feeling of insecurity in some areas needs to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2538	The proposal asks that the government amends the provision of compensation in Section 19 of the Nature Diversity Act, so that it becomes equivalent to Section 50 of the same law. It would have fully compensated livestock keepers in the breeding area of predators for their economic losses in grazing, loss of feeding grounds if the livestock population had to be reported or when extensive preventive measures are required. It may be carried out by replacing the economic loss of the keeper of the livestock by having to indicate the holding, or alternatively, that any additional costs incurred by continuing the holding will be borne. It is now the case that, in order to create acceptance and understanding of the establishment of predatory wildlife populations and at the same time to reduce the level of conflict, it will be essential for a person to continue the principle that the individual citizen should not suffer financial loss and have to give up its nutritional basis without replacing it. In the judgment of the Supreme Court, cited in Norsk Retstidende 2006, page 1105, the Rendals judgment, Section 34 states: ‘Our predatory policy is based on the belief that the individual citizen shall not be charged with the cost of damage suffered or harm prevention measures.’ In other words, it is the big community that must bear the economic consequences of the country's predatory policy, not the individual livestock keeper. However, today’s situation is that in the breeding area of predators, keepers are only allowed to replace the loss of the animal’s value with direct consequential damage. That is what is contained in Section 19 of the Nature Diversity Act and its related regulations. It contrasts with livestock farmers with grazing rights in areas reserved for national parks, landscape areas, nature reserves or other. There's another replacement regime. Section 50 of the Nature Diversity Act operates and that provision states that livestock keepers are compensated for their financial loss «when a protection entails a difficulty in the current use». Farmers with grazing rights in protected areas thus enjoy a stronger protection of replacement law than similar keepers with grazing rights in the breeding area for predators. It is not suitable to arouse confidence. The desire of the centre party is that the two groups should be equated in principle and in law. There is no need to distinguish between the replacement protection of grazing or ownership keepers in the breeding area for predators and herds keepers with grazing and ownership rights in nature conservation areas. In many cases, the problem of predators has a greater economic impact on landowners and rightholders in the breeding area of predators than on landowners with protection under the Nature Diversity Act § 50. Farmers with rights of gravitation and ownership in the breeding area of predators must withstand the limitations of availability due to the requirements and needs of the large community, and they can withstand restrictions which are at least similar to those of the keepers affected by the protection provided for in Section 50. The parties therefore consider that the compensation regime is incompatible with the principles of protection of private property and with the principles of compensation that were used to provide comparable restrictions on the availability of those restricted by nature protection and protected areas. We also believe that the replacement regime is not compatible with the principles laid down in the Rendals judgment. We're all going to show you to and use the rough game deal. In the prey agreement, grazing is also a positive thing: «Animals on the estuary have many positive qualities and it is important to ensure the viability of agricultural activities in areas of wild game.» But what's about to happen is you can no longer do it in the breeding grounds for predators. The parties to the settlement continue to point to the firmness of the two-part objective, but it is soon only as a mouthhole to count in terms of grazing and grazing rights. Then we also determine in the robberies agreement: ‘It is assumed that predator management is carried out in such a way that no grazing is required under the Animal Welfare Act [[...]] We're not meeting the two-part goal today. We don't meet the two-part objective when we actually see that a number of areas become inaccessible for grazing. Therefore, it is sad that some are not willing to enter into the discussion and neither deal with nor acknowledge the issue contained in the proposal from the Centre Party. With that, I take up proposal No. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2567	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2570	The large predators have a natural place in Norwegian nature. As late as Sunday, I had the pleasure of being in the East and for the first time seeing wolf tracks. The three who are in the East are still there. There's one that you don't know where to find, but there's three that's still there. It was a great experience. It is important that predator management is scientifically based in Norway. At the same time, we have a predatory settlement, which in many ways is a political work of art. It's important for the Left that we stick to the predatory settlement and the two-part goal that is also there, and that we ensure the survival of all the major predatory species. It is also important that we are able to maintain the stock targets contained in the predatory agreement. There's no maximum, there's probably a minimum of where you have to be in a kind of balance between the goals that are there. The agreement on predators is a political document and decision, but nevertheless: that is what we have, and it is important that we continue and stick to the consensus that lies there. Then it is important to mitigate the conflicts with agricultural interests and also mitigate the insecurity that may be due to the presence of large predators. The Council of State has now done its best to the Committee for the compensation, compensation and subsidy schemes applicable to the industry. We agree with the Council of States that there are really quite good economic arrangements, but we would also like to add that the Left is willing to see if it is right to have more preventive support schemes, just to mitigate the conflict further, and we should look at whether a few more measures can be taken, but we believe that this must be seen in a larger whole covering more than just the compensation provisions. It's a fact that there are about 125 000 sheep dying on pasture during a season. About a quarter of these people are compensated for by predators. I believe that it is absolutely animal protection considerations, both for those who die on pasture, and for those who are taken off predators, to see if we can create support schemes that take more preventive action to address what is more risk-based compensation schemes, in order to achieve a better result than we can do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2583	Nature-using industries will have costs associated with their use. It is no more perceptive than the fact that other industries have costs associated with other framework conditions. It is not initially the responsibility of the state to cover such costs, and the state does so only to a limited extent. Ovine land use is a valuable Norwegian industry because it exploits the bedding that other forms of farming cannot exploit, and helps to maintain a wider agricultural structure and a more widespread settlement than we would otherwise have. Therefore, the sheep industry should continue to receive substantial public support. When sheep are released on the outback, we know that many animals will die. There's a fight about the numbers, but there's little doubt that at least half the die of eating poisonous plants, get stuck, break your leg, and much more. No compensation is paid for this loss because it is considered the responsibility of sheep owners to release their animals into areas of natural danger. The exception is the large claims paid because of the part of Norwegian nature called predators. Predators have always been part of Norwegian nature and will remain so in the future. In principle, there is no greater reason to pay compensation for the death of a sheep because of the nature of the wolf than that it dies because of the nature of the roe, raft or red fox. However, there is a broad consensus to maintain the compensation of predators for the sheep industry, for many good reasons. But it is important to be clear that such a large and so special compensation scheme requires legitimacy and support in the opinion. It is therefore important to ensure that this aid exists and to be critical of proposals that could undermine the aid. In the view of the Greens, the proposal of the Centre for a new protection of food professionals in the breeding area for predators would help to undermine the public support of the opinion on the replacement of predators. The proposal, if adopted, would, in our opinion, be to do the sheep industry literally a bear service. That is why we do not support this proposal. The proposal seeks to replace ovine farmers in predatory areas if they cease to operate on the basis of predatory problems. This will simply not be understood in 2015, and even less in 2030, when Norway has moved further towards a sustainable society. Support for the actual feeding of nature with the problems it poses is understandable. Aid to choose not to operate in areas that simply consist of Norwegian nature is not reasonable and will not be understood. Today, 10 years have passed since the Stortinget adopted a partial conversion to a risk-based compensation scheme in the 2004 Robbery Agreement. The agreement concluded, inter alia: that a significant proportion of the claims are to be passed through prior payment as an incentive for the implementation of preventive measures. Unfortunately, however, this plan was scrapped in the first Soria Moria declaration. Therefore, the Greens have today proposed a conversion of the substitutes from replacing livestock after killing predators to pay aid of the same size as fixed ‘risk-based’ subsidies based on predatory density and loss risk — i.e. the same payment to users, but based on both live sheep and live predators. Such a scheme will base the fact that predators in nature are one of the framework conditions for sheep farming, and it will provide a stronger incentive for solutions. At the same time, no matter what compensation scheme we choose, it is also necessary to limit as much uncertainty as possible as to the basis for compensation payments. Last autumn, a study by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research concluded that compensation for loss of sheep is paid to gloupe for considerably more sheep than gloapa actually takes. This gives rise to an already significant uncertainty about the precision of predatory damages, including in the case of other predatory species. The Greens have therefore also made proposals today to follow up the Gaupe study of the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research last year with similar studies on the loss of sheep for all species of farmed game. I take this up with me the two proposals that the Greens have promoted in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2606	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2609	Private ownership is an important value in Norwegian society. It is central to this government to ensure the rights of landowners and to facilitate land-based industries. The predatory game field is an area in which a number of favourable arrangements are in place for owners of grazing animals affected by predatory game, and this is consistent with the predatory game settlement. Compensation for grazing animals taken from wild game ensures full compensation for damage to domestic animals and domestic animals. Subsidies for preventive measures are used to prevent predatory game from damaging grazing animals. Remedies for anti-conflict measures shall limit disadvantages due to the predatory nature of local communities and other groups. Grants for conversion to other agricultural operations are a voluntary scheme granted to users who have suffered significant losses over years to predatory game. Compensation is also granted to animal owners who are subject to restrictions on the use of grazing land due to predatory game. These schemes are primarily established to ensure a viable grazing industry in Norway. Over the Ministry of Climate and Environment's budget, it is set by approx. 225 million. NOK to this. This shows that we currently have good financial arrangements for owners of grazing animals that are affected by predatory game. I can therefore not see that there is a need to introduce further arrangements. I am therefore pleased that a broad majority of the Committee shares the government's assessment in this matter, and that good arrangements are essential to ensure a viable grazing industry. In line with the robberies agreement, this government is leading a clearer zone management in the predatory game policy. It is necessary to fulfil the two-part objective of keeping both predatory and grazing animals in Norway. Last year, therefore, the Minister of Agriculture and Food and I sent out a letter asking the pollinators to follow this up in their management plans. It is important that the areas set aside for prey and grazing animals, respectively, are large enough. Furthermore, it is important that the denominators cooperate on zoning in their areas. Where natural, provision should be made for several predatory game species to live in the same areas, which may result in fewer animal owners being affected by predatory game. Land differentiation creates a greater degree of predictability both for the grazing industry and for the achievement of the stocking targets for wild game. This will in the long term lead to lower losses and smaller conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2624	Whatever you think of predators, there is probably agreement that it is good to have the most secure factual basis on the conflict between sheep and predators and on the extent of the losses to the different predator species. As mentioned, and as we know, last year a report was published that was intended to show that compensation is paid for much more sheep lost to gloat than the actual figure is. This creates a type of uncertainty that neither the sheep industry nor nature conservation interests can enjoy, and the Greens have therefore proposed that we have more such investigations also in the case of other predators. Will the Minister for the Environment take the initiative to provide us with similar studies for you, the wolf and the bear as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2631	I think there's always a need for more knowledge in a field where you have so conflicting interests, so we want to put in place more knowledge on the theme of why there are so many animals being taken by predators. The Ministry of Climate and Environment, therefore, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, is launching a project to look at loss causes in the livestock industry, and we have set at 1.5 million. kr to it in 2015, so we want to get more knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2636	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. It's a little step in the right direction. At the same time, with some insight into what it costs to conduct field studies in Norway today, all will know that 1.5 million. kr will not provide us with a good and reliable factual basis to clarify better what are the realities of the loss of sheep for the different predator species. Can we expect that the efforts made by the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture will be stepped up to a level where we actually get good new data base for real loss rates for all four large predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2643	We want more knowledge. Now we've at least gone 1.5 million. kr in the year to start projects to look at loss causes in the livestock industry. It's a signal that we want more knowledge in this area, and as I said in my previous answer, an area where you have two so conflicting interests. So knowing more about the causes of loss in animal nutrition makes sense, and can also help mitigate the conflicts when we know something more. Now we put it off in 2015, and then we start that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2648	This is not about prevention measures. This is not about the number of sheep injured over a year or killed in a year. This is about the right to compensation. This is about principal similarities or differences in the loss of nutrient basis for agricultural operators. If you lose your nutrition due to nature protection today, you will receive full compensation under Section 50 of the Nature Diversity Act. If you lose your nutrition due to being within the breeding area of predators, where the zoning is now strictly practised, you will not get the same type of replacement. Then you'll get much less compensation. My question to the Council of State is: what is the difference in principle between the loss of nutrients due to breeding grounds for predators and the loss of nutrients due to nature conservation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2655	Compensation for territorial protection under the Nature Diversity Act is a unique scheme. This arrangement is an exception to the rules otherwise applicable to the liability of the State in the event of supply adjustments. We want to keep it as a unique system, but within this area it is important that we have good financial arrangements for owners of grazing animals that are injured or killed by predatory game. When I say that in 2015 it is set at 225 million. kr to animal-owner schemes adversely affected by predatory game is a significant amount. So I think we're in charge of the compensation. But we don't want to change the natural diversity law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2660	So let me do this in a slightly different way. So we're not talking about compensation for any losses you've had in a year. We are talking about the loss of nutrients and that sheep can no longer be used for grazing in the breeding area of predators, i.e. the loss of nutrients. When the council here says that Section 50 of the Natural Diversity Act is a unique rule, I have to ask: What is the difference for the individual user about a loss of its nutritional basis according to Section 50 of the Nature Diversity Act – i.e. nature protection – or about a loser because one is within the breeding area of predators? Isn't the consequence for the individual private property user exactly the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2665	But no one will lose the right to graze even if it is predatory in the area in question. This is where we have financial support schemes for owners of grazing animals and others who are affected by predators. We have a total of 225 million. kr in 2015. We also have support schemes for the conversion to other agricultural holdings if the animal owner so wishes. For that purpose, it's earmarked for seven million. kr in 2015. So I believe that today we have good financial arrangements that take care of those who will either do something else, or those who are affected by it. Substitution under the Nature Diversity Act is a unique scheme. This is something else, but I think we have economic means of doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2670	I think I have to repeat the question, because what is happening now in the breeding area for predators is that a number of users can no longer exploit their grazing areas. They may no longer operate in those areas due to predatory problems. The grazing areas are being closed. Then we're not talking about prevention anymore, we're talking about loss of nutrition. My question to the Council of State, to which I hope I can get an answer, is: What difference does it make to the individual nutritionist whether a loss in nutrition due to protection from nature protection or a loss due to the fact that a person is in the breeding area of predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2675	We have that paragraph of the Nature Diversity Act, which is a unique system, and then we have other arrangements that meet the need for compensation in the case of predatory regulation. If one is within a priority predatory area, it is possible to obtain support for conversion and other economic instruments. But the paragraph to which the representative Arnstad refers is a unique arrangement. This is ensured by other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2681	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2686	I do not know if there is any comfort for Arnstad, but I would like to inform you that the matter has not been adequately dealt with in the Right Group. It is related to the fact that the previous rapporteur has been ill-appointed, and there has been some trouble in the exchanges. I have great sympathy for the proposals. Here, we have to distinguish between annual losses and compensations for annual losses – I think the Committee is quite right to cover them – and what we are talking about here: when nutrition, quality of life, hunting interests and foreign interests are displaced. I think it is a bit serious when you say that there is no loss of rights. We from the Hedmark bench were at Fylkesmannen in Hedmark on 5 January this year. We got very clear evidence that there is now the closest perfect match between what is the wolf zone and what is no longer available land for field use. There are no grazing animals. Then it's obvious that the loss rates are going down. For those who are really affected, it's like throwing blues in their eyes to use as an argument that now loss statistics are falling. It simply means that the interest is distorted. We must take this seriously, because there is also the conflict. We have a zone policy, and it makes it even worse, because it actually makes people sit and cover the costs of the large majority, and the large majority don't even listen. I think it is quite serious that it was the County of Hedmark who presented these figures. They are fully accessible to the entire bureaucracy, to all politicians, and you do not listen to the conflict. I live in this area myself. You have a sense of being overrun. It's a completely different discussion whether we're going to have predatory game or not, this is about how we treat those people who actually bear the cost. I have to say that I'm shocked by the debate when people say that you've got into it, and then you haven't been able to record that it's actually the core of the conflict! I warn you that this has not been adequately treated, it has to do with sickness. I don't reproach anyone for that, but I'm still going to fight for those who actually bear the cost, and those who are being alienated from their rights, to get a proper treatment of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2699	Now I could bring some simple rhetorical exercises to the representative Gundersen and Right, but I'm not going to do that. I'm going to say that I appreciate that the representative Gundersen is going up and saying what he says, and I hope that soon means that the Energy and Environment Committee and the parties in Stortinget can start dealing with these issues instead of trying to ridicule the Center Party every time we deal with this. That's the same thing that happens in my state. In the Lierne municipality, annual losses and prevention can be talked about, but there are no outgrown pastures left, because the Lierne farmers have already taken the cost on behalf of the big community and abandoned grazing in the Lierne. That's the way it is in the Lierne, and that's how it is in Hedmark, and it's soon a problem we have to take seriously. Unfortunately, there are costs of running an industry, which the representative Rasmus Hansson was in, but what I am asking is not. There are actually no annual losses either, as the representative Gundersen said, but that is why there is this discrimination in compensation provisions for loss of nutrition – because that is what we are now seeing going on in the breeding areas for predators. I believe that predatory policy should have some form of legitimacy, that question must be addressed before or after. I hear the representative Hansson say that we pay them to lay down. No, they lose their nutritional basis. It is no longer possible to practice grazing in these areas and it may not be possible for the large community to force the sheep farmers to continue to suffer severe losses each year or to have to reduce their jobs and their livelihoods, thereby reducing private property rights without the need for society to replace them. It can't be like that. I think that the provision of Section 50 of the Nature Diversity Act on protected areas makes sense, but it is quite incomprehensible that someone got it through as a special provision for protected areas, but that it should not apply to the loss of a nutritional basis even for the breeding areas of predatory animals. The centre party does not get a majority on this matter today, but I hope that the Storting will come back to this very important and decisive discussion for very many individuals in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2717	It was just one thing I forgot to say, and it was that I did not vote for the proposal. It comes from the fact that this is an absolute proposal that should be examined, and I think it belongs with the evaluation of the wolf zone and of stock targets. It is a fact that wolves are so exclusive to all uses of land that other industrial activities are displaced. I would like to encourage you to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2738	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. The President will also propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2747	There is broad consensus in the Committee that the main principles of Norwegian climate policy for 2020 will be based on the agreement of the 2012 climate agreement. It provides predictability for most people and decision-makers in industry, industry and the public sector. There is consensus in the Committee that we need to pursue an ambitious national climate policy that leads to a long-term transition to a low-carbon society by 2050. As one of the richest countries in the world, Norway has a unique opportunity to show that it is possible to combine high living standards with low emissions. At the same time, an ambitious national policy must be sensible in a global context. The overall objective is to reduce total global greenhouse gas emissions. This implies taking into account the consequences of the quota system, the risk of carbon leakage and the competitiveness of industry when designing policies. This provides guidance for the use of the instrument to reduce national emissions towards both 2020, 2030 and 2050. It is gratifying that an overall committee is behind this view. It is necessary to strengthen climate reconciliation through new measures if we are to manage to reduce emissions in Norway. The government and the cooperation parties have already implemented a great many measures that will reduce emissions. In the transport sector, a number of measures have been taken to speed up the transition. In 2015, the turnover of biofuels is increased from 3,5 pst. to 5.5 pst. This measure alone will reduce emissions by a minimum of 130 000 tonnes of CO2. With effect from 1 July, the biodiesel levy will be eliminated, the low-mixed bioethanol levy will be halved and a full user charge for natural gas and LPG will be introduced. The last step will make biogas competitive. The tax advantages for electric cars continue in 2015, and in addition, chargeable hybrids have become cheaper. All these measures will help to accelerate the transition of the transport sector. At the same time, there is a strong focus on rail and public transport, and the government has promoted new guidelines for environmentally friendly local development. In sum, living without a car in everyday life will be simpler and more efficient. In the construction sector, the government has extended and extended the right-holders’ aid scheme for an additional measure under Enova. Several measures are supported and the total amount of aid has increased. This strengthens the incentives to replace fossil oil firing with environmentally friendly alternatives. As of 2020, there has been a ban on fossil fuel oil firing in households and on the baseload of other buildings. Renewable energy is an important part of the solution for achieving the low-carbon society. Still almost 40 pst. of Norway’s energy use fossil despite the renewableity of electricity production. Norway has a significant potential for developing more renewable energy. This energy should mainly be used to replace fossil energy where possible and appropriate, to facilitate more environmentally friendly industrial production and energy intensive activities in Norway and to allow more power exchanges with our neighbours on the continent and in the United Kingdom. This will have both positive environmental impacts and contribute to the creation of new green jobs and green value creation in Norway. The government has taken several steps to realise our renewable potential. The point of entry for the land interest tax has been raised. Better depreciation rules for wind power have been notified and an extension of the electricity licence market to 2021 has been consulted. In addition, two new inter-national links with Germany and the United Kingdom have been granted a concession. Half of Norwegian emissions are covered by the EU ETS. In this sector, emissions will be reduced by 43 pst. in 2030 compared to 2005, the EEA territory as a whole. It is an effective and effective instrument that, at the same time, provides Norway with flexibility to invest in environmentally friendly industrial production in the years to come. At the same time, Norway must have ambitions to produce as cleanly as possible in the quota sector. New technologies are essential to achieve this. In this context, it is worth noting that the government has decided to strengthen the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund by 12.75 billion. kr in addition to the agreement in the climate agreement. At the same time, the Norwegian eco-technology system has increased to 330 million. kr in 2015. In total, this will enable far more enterprises to realise good environmental projects, build more pilots and develop and implement new technologies that reduce emissions and energy use. There is little doubt that government policy represents a shift in climate policy. Together with our cooperation parties, we have already delivered concrete and ambitious new measures after a year and a half in the government that will contribute to lower emissions and new green jobs in Norway. I am pleased that the measures have broad support, and that the Stortinget has been able to gather on five new measures through the consideration of this proposal for a representative. I therefore recommend that the vote be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2778	First of all, a little visit to the previous speaker, in which he concludes by saying that there is no doubt that there is a change in climate policy. To give that recognition, I think you have to be firmly anchored in the views and values of the government parties, because outside the government parties it is clear that there are discussions about whether there is a change in the pace of climate policy and whether the instruments are the right ones. But I'm going to leave it, because I think that in this case, like a few more issues that the committee has dealt with during this magnificence period, it's time to discuss whether there are man-made climate change a little bit away. How climate change has arisen and the consequences – that discussion is a little away. We know that it already affects our everyday life. And we are past the time to discuss whether climate change will mean further strengthening of the challenges and the differences that the world represents between poor and rich. 2015 will also be a very important climate year. We have the government's 2030 targets, which they have announced are to be presented quickly, and it's probably that there is the pressure switch hanging up to the dryer. We have an exciting and important climate summit in Paris at the end of this year, and I think some of the challenges will be able to unite as much as possible in a key element of the future as the climate perspective actually imposes on us. And then, in fact, I think that this proposal – which is basically, we should say, quite ambitiously, and which is the Environment Directorate's proposal for action put into a context in which it is proposed to the Storting and what has been achieved through the Committee's proceedings – is a small step in the right direction. There is no revolution, but it underscores a will in the Storting to come together, about some themes at least. So I think it's positive. Then it is positive that an overall committee then underlines Norway's responsibilities and Norway's opportunities. We write very clearly in the committee mode that Norway has technology, competence and capital to develop and implement new technologies that can reduce emissions outside and at home. And Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, has a unique opportunity to show that it is possible to combine high living standards with low emissions. By doing so, we are actually putting a significant commitment on ourselves, and that is what I think a lot of the matter today is really about, that we are taking some steps in the right direction, and that we are very broadly able to reconcile ourselves on some points – a total of five proposals for decisions. I think the challenge in the continuation is that we are trying to build up as broad a consensus as possible, and that we are able to get the strong instruments attached to it. So, of course, someone in the Chamber today is going to vote for all the proposals that have been promoted. But I think we should use 2015 to try to unify the Storting as much as possible in realistic measures up to 2030 and up to 2050, so that we can achieve our long-term goal of being a low-carbon society by 2050. And one of the proposals for decisions that have been promoted is of particular interest in this way, namely: ‘The government is asking for a case on how fossil energy use in Norway can be replaced by renewable energy sources to adapt to the low-carbon society.’ If we are able to identify the way forward and clarify the measures contained in such a proposal, we have come a long way. Then only the process emissions, possibly from industry, had to remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2796	A joint committee points out that an ambitious policy must be nationally sensible in a global context, overseeing the objective of reducing global global emissions of greenhouse gases. This means taking into account the consequences of the quota system, the risk of carbon leakage and the competitiveness of industry in the formulation of policies. This provides guidance for drug use to reduce national emissions towards both 2020, 2030 and 2050. The Progress Party believes that it is an important principle for climate policy that the one who impoverishes pays, and that climate policy must be set up in order to maximise the emission reduction of efforts. Symbol policies in climate policy are very harmful, as it destroys the legitimacy of people most, a legitimacy one depends on retaining because the vast majority of measures will be very costly. It is not possible to jump under the chair that the electrification of the socket is a measure that is highly debated, and personally I feel that many describe it as meaningless, when I am in discussion with most people. But leave it alone, and then we get to take to heart the experience that electrification of the height of Utzira gives us, as a large plurality in the Storting is behind. The Progress Party, as government partners, also voted in favour of it. Then, too, the Labour Party in the opposition has had a significantly greater willingness to impose climate action on industry and the petroleum sector than what one saw from the same party in position. At the same time, the new party leader is very vague when it comes to the party's future reduction targets, although he was able to create great uncertainty about the future of the petroleum sector that speaks with the AUF, while there are other signals when he visits the supplier industry. So to the representative proposal, which itself has a number of concrete proposals for action – almost certainly 29 proposals from the SV, and so on, the Left has made 11 different proposals for action. Of the 40 different measures, the Committee has gathered on 5 proposals for decisions containing the following measures: a ban on the use of fossil oil for heating and an assessment of whether the ban should also include peak loads, zero and low-emission technologies in public transport, a land-flow plan in ports, a hydrogen strategy and, lastly, a turn from fossil energy to renewable energy, as a adaptation to the low-emission society. In the opinion of the Committee, a great deal is being done to describe the different challenges, and it provides many good examples of possible responses to future action, within an area that will have a very high focus in 2015, with the Paris climate summit that is at the top of the agenda. For our part, the government will present its objectives soon, in a meeting where the strategy for Norway's 2030 climate change target will be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2815	When King Olav held his New Year's speech, all the way back to New Year's Eve in 1969, 45 years ago, he said: ‘We have a country that gives us opportunities for a decoupling and an open-air life that gets elsewhere on earth. And we're in the happy situation that we still have enough room for anyone to be satisfied with the urge to be alone with nature, which is still a popular feature of us. It is up to us and our reason to manage this good in such a way that future generations will not be able to reproach us." That was wise at the time, and it is wise to say so today. It's about how we take care of nature, so that future generations can also enjoy it. Nature must then be managed in such a way as to preserve biodiversity. We must prevent air and water pollution and other interventions at the expense of biodiversity. The biodiversity we find within Norwegian borders must have a high level of protection. Then we have to take seriously the fact that our planet is in a very serious situation. We are no longer talking about an uncertain future for grandchildren. Climate change is not happening in a distant future. They're happening now. That's why it's for our children, and it's for us to reverse – and have to reverse – the evolution. We have no time to lose. There is reason to rejoice over the five proposals for decisions we have agreed on, but I would like to see figures on what this will actually represent in lower emissions. In spring, the Environment Directorate produced a report with a professional basis for the further development of national and international climate policy. We called for such a number material when the previous government presented its climate report in 2012. At that time Stortinget did not even know what the proposed measures would mean in reductions. We are therefore very pleased that we now have a massive basis for taking the right and necessary decisions to reduce climate change emissions. The Environment Directorate gave us clear figures on how much needs to be cut in the various sectors in order to achieve the climate objectives. They also pointed out that there are no longer any questions about which actions to implement – no, all the actions need to be implemented, whether we are going to achieve the target. Then we are left with a compromise of five measures that we could agree on. It's some steps, but it's far, far from enough. Soon we will discuss what climate goals Norway will set for 2030. There will be ambitious proposals and proposals that are more ambitious than the ambitious ones. But what does it really do if we do not at the same time commit ourselves to ambitious and concrete measures to achieve the objectives? The Christian People's Party supports the measures outlined in the report and promoted in the draft representative. However, we believe that several of the measures need a more thorough assessment to ensure that the proposals are designed in the best possible way. Therefore, we propose to ask the government: ‘review the actions outlined in the Directorate-General for the Environment’s report ‘Professional basis for the further development of national and international climate policies’, and make concrete proposals on how to implement individual actions’. That is how the proposal is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2843	Then the representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, took up the proposal she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2846	In a way, this debate will become a small pre-post-fection before the notification of the climate and the important, ongoing debate such as flooding and the big parties must have in this area throughout the year. There has been a good and quite interesting discussion in the committee, and I think that the dialogue between the parties that have been established there has been very good. There is a broad majority now making use of international, but also national, measures. There is a broad majority who also want a combination of quotas, regulatory mechanisms and positive measures that can contribute to, inter alia, the development of quotas. new technology. The Committee also supports a number of joint proposals for decisions that should provide clear leadership for the government – proposals dealing with both the transport sector, Enova's hydrogen investment and also targets for phase-out of fossil energy use. It's important, it's good, and it's good that we've got a unanimous increase in these proposals. On the part of the Centre Party, we will also highlight the need for a climate law that can help to create a long-term and more predictable framework for climate action in all sectors. A type of systematic implementation of adopted objectives, we believe, is best achieved by a law that also lays down a framework, which prevents measures from being pushed forward, but which is more binding for each period. It is a broad majority of the Committee that recognises the importance of the need to praise global greenhouse gas emissions and that a large proportion of our business is part of the quota-free sector. There will be a tightening of the allowance system internationally, and this will also lead to the system and price actually contributing to an increase in the reduction of emissions and the development of new technologies. The country also has an important role to play in facilitating the development and market introduction of low or zero-emission technologies. We also have an important national job to do there. In many ways, there is no need to be a contrast between a good industrial policy and a good climate policy. The emphasis on the role and importance of Enova is also part of that image. The same applies to the eco-innovation scheme within Innovation Norway. The development of more renewable energy must play a central role in Norwegian climate policy, in domestic power supplies, but also in power exchanges. The electricity market and the need to move on with wind power generation are very urgent. Further work on renewable energy targets and on energy efficiency improvement is also very important in the opinion of the Centre Party. The government should make proposals as soon as possible to prohibit the use of fossil oil for heating in buildings, in order to allow the market to adapt to new legislation in this area. There is also no doubt that the transport sector plays an important role — and will do so in the future — in climate policy. The transition to and development of public transport, especially in large cities, will be very important. Transition to electric cars or low-emission vehicles is already well under way and is essential in this picture, but the role of the state in financing public investment in cities is also essential. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is important that there is no 50 pst, as the Right has suggested, in terms of contributing to collective investment, and we believe it is important that the State can contribute more than that for some large, heavy investments. It must also be followed by a debate with the cities, where cities too make a very clear commitment. The centre party is pleased that there is a need for more proposals to be adopted, and we believe, on the basis of comments and comments, that proposals for renewable targets and energy efficiency targets should also have been adopted here today. However, the examination in the committee and in the Chamber here today should provide us with a good basis for the dialogue between the parties that must be held when the climate communication is presented. With this I take up proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Greens/European Democrats, and by the Greens/European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on behalf of the
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2876	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2879	We are going to make major changes over the next 15 years, with the commitments we and other countries need to make towards 2030 in order to have the opportunity to achieve a goal of not having global warming beyond 2 degrees. The left believes that we must at least focus on what the EU is doing, that it should be 40 pst. reduction in Norway, and it is in many ways that we need to achieve the 2030 targets that the rest of the world will have to achieve by 2050, in order to be able to achieve the necessary reductions. In this case, on the SV's proposal for a representative, a primary objective is to reduce by 2020. Here we are already in line with the goals we have set. According to the Directorate-General for the Environment, it was 8 million tonnes. If it's now getting smaller, the next assessment and investigation will show, but we need to do more towards 2020. The left agrees with the rapporteur's remark that climate policy is a change of pace. There is no doubt that with a civil majority and with the situation we now have on the Storting, there are many more climate action being implemented. We base the cooperation agreement we have with the government, where the climate agreement is to be reinforced, where we are to have a strengthening of the collective effort, and believe that in the comparisons we have made around the budget, we have implemented and followed up that agreement. The representative Astrup mentioned many of the budgetary decisions that have been taken, whether there is an increase in the mineral oil levy, the removal of VAT on the leasing of electric cars, the facilitation of many environmentally friendly fuels this year, the facilitation of hybrid cars, or the imposition of zero emissions on ferries. A number of other decisions have been taken and will be implemented. It is important to look at this issue also in that context, because here we get five proposals for decisions that have been taken in the right direction – and they are not so small either; they are quite comprehensive when you go into what they involve. The first proposal for a decision is that we ask for a legal ban on oil fires in 2020, and this must mean that the pace of the replacement of oil fires is increasing dramatically. Although there has been a purpose in the climate agreement for a long time, implementation has not been in line with the will that has been there in the past. So a law ban will have great significance – and great importance especially in the big cities. I think that in Oslo there are still 13 000 to 14,000 oil burners that you now have to have a completely different pace of replacement for the future. The zero-emission or climate-neutral nature of public transport by 2025 means that all companies have 10 years in their possession. It's the same time aspect that Ruter got when the decisions were made in Oslo and Akershus – they got ten years to be ready for this in 2020. So this decision makes it really just the time and the way for those who are going to put this into practice. It's a big change for the collectives. A comprehensive land-flow plan is correct and important in order to get to the right level. A great deal of cooperation with the different port owners around the country is required in order to achieve this in practice. There are technical and complex solutions that need to be put in place, and they also need to be assessed against the needs of the marine industry. Then it's the hydrogen strategy. It points much more towards 2030, but the potential of hydrogen that carries energy is great. Again: Oslo and Akershus are also internationally located in many ways in advance. It is a bet that has been implemented and started locally. Now the state is also on the road, and now we can take a leading role in the development and use of hydrogen, whether it's in the transport sector, with heavy vehicles, or it's the nutritional potential, which is great in Norway, as it is in shipping. So this is important and correct decisions and hopefully a contribution to not just making individual decisions now, but that one gets it the race to reduce emissions that one depends on to achieve the goal. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 4 to 7 and points 9-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2902	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2906	A little heating is possible before the 2030 target is to be landed. Climate change is not going on one day without us being reminded that it is dangerous and unfair. I find that people outside this room are impatient. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world and has high emissions per capita. That means we have to take the consequences of that. We are responsible for cutting and converting into a zero-emission society. And we can build the country green within the framework of the Norwegian model and a safe, regulated working life, as we have built the country before – if we want. At the same time, we must support poor countries in their climate change. In the climate agreement, the Stortinget has set the target for Norwegian emissions to reach a maximum of 47 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. We've started the work. When the Environment Directorate presented its report on climate change targets for 2020, they concluded that from 2007 Norway’s climate policy has resulted in emissions of more than 5 million tonnes of CO2 by 2020, compared to the forecast. We have, among other things. by reducing fuel oil consumption, active use of car charges and phase-in of electric cars, use of power from land to oil platforms, industrial technology measures and landfill bans in the waste sector. It is therefore not true that nothing happened in Norwegian climate policy during the red-green plural. Nevertheless, the Environment Directorate decides that the climate target of the Storting must be cut off by an additional 8 million tonnes by 2020, which is why this is happening in the Chamber today. The Environment Directorate has presented a report with a number of technical proposals for action in all sectors showing how the Norwegian climate change target can be achieved. The previous government also gave us a climate cure – in 2010. So knowledge exists. In our proposal for a representative, we in SV have put forward 29 proposals to achieve the climate target that Stortinget has seen, based precisely on professionally based proposals. We are pleased that, through committee management, we have received multiple numbers for five of these proposals, which have been negotiated within the committee. It is important that there is power in this hall. The size should now consider prohibiting any use of fossil fuel oil, both the so-called base load and the top load, because it makes little sense that as politicians we should think that individuals should phase out all the fossil oil fuel, while commercial buildings and the state should be allowed to use fossil fuel oil when it is cold. It is important that the government is given responsibility for speeding up the transition to a free public transport system, so that one reaches the goal of free public transport by 2025. I'm also excited about what the government is coming back with to get more land use in Norwegian ports. This is also – as you know – important to increase air quality in our cities. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that several of the proposals that we have made are about getting new strategies and plans. The 29 proposals from SV would be able to cut over half of what is needed to achieve the Storting climate target. The five proposals that lie here today are not enough, and it is only five years until 2020. I would really wish we wouldn't have such a big problem gathering about a policy that goes a little bit further than creating plans and strategies. The government has promised to strengthen the climate agreement. A reasonable interpretation of such a promise is that one at least tries to achieve the goal that the Storting has seen for 2020. Nevertheless, the government shows little willingness to propose new policies that make it realistic to achieve the goal. I also have to ask the Labour Party, which has been involved in adopting the target of Norwegian emissions down to 47 million tonnes of CO2 in 2020: what is their policy – which is likely to achieve the target? Since the Labour Party only has a handful of proposals that SV has put forward, what policies do they have to cut emissions beyond that? I want to challenge all the parties that are now beating their breasts to make compromises with fine goals, to actually support a policy that makes one reach the goal. On behalf of SV, I take up the proposals that have not yet been addressed by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2943	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2946	Thanks to the SV and the Left, who have made many good proposals in this matter, but otherwise today's debate is an excellent example of why Norwegian climate policy is now a failure. We have already heard about change of pace, about reality and about active policies, that today we are adopting steps that are in the right direction. After me, I'm typing that the Council of State will repeat that Norwegian climate policy is ambitious. It's almost amazing that it's still necessary to remember reality. Norway does not have low emissions compared to other countries. On the contrary, we are among those countries in Europe that emit the most CO2 per capita. Ola Nordmann emits twice as much CO2 per year as Medelsvensson does. Norwegian emissions do not go down, and we do not meet the commitments in the climate agreement. While the Swedes are going to cut 40 pst. compared to its 1990 emissions by 2020, we are still discussing whether we might be able to cut 5 pst. in relation to our 1990 emissions. This will not make Norway a low-emission society, not a zero-emission society, by 2050. In the timing of this matter, there are a total of 41 proposals for measures on emissions reduction. The Greens are all in favour of the Greens. If they were adopted, they would cut Norwegian emissions by the 8 million tonnes needed to meet the gross domestic product agreed by 2020. Most of the proposals are well known, they have been thoroughly investigated by the Environment Directorate, and they have been on the table of both this government and former governments. The blue government could take all these measures, without asking the Storting, in accordance with the climate agreement. The red-green government could have done the same thing. But what happens? Today, 26 of these climate measures are voted down by the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Only five are adopted, because they are so diluted that no one can be against them. Listen: The government will investigate ‘how fossil energy use in Norway can be replaced by renewable energy sources to adapt to the low-carbon society.’ But the last time I checked was the whole point of climate policy to do just that. So after 25 years of climate policy, we adopt this one more time. We also decide to maintain the hydrogen support systems and to create a hydrogen strategy, so we will ban the use of fossil oil for domestic heating and base loads in other buildings in 2020. But it's very close to what was adopted in the 2012 climate agreement. So this committee has spent time and political resources preparing, and the majority is very satisfied. To the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, it's basically just one question to ask: Is this ambitious climate policy? Perhaps the five measures adopted today are chosen because they relate to sectors where it is particularly important to cut because of a lack of targets? No, I'm sorry. Some such assessment has not been made. Norway has no sectoral objectives. The majority of people today are policy-makers using the input method. And that still means in practice what the Workers' Party, Right and Various other parties at all times find it free to accept. While Storting spends time on this, the temperature of the earth is rising, and if we are to control the most dangerous and unpredictable climate change, the world today has, as it is known, less than 20 years before the emission levels have to be at zero – that is, zero, President, in 20 years. The Government immediately submits a major report on climate change targets for 2030 and the only responsibility is that the government in this Communication commits Norway to the order of 55 pst. emissions cut in Norwegian territory by 2030 if we are to meet the ambitions and objectives of a zero-emission society by 2050. This is ambitious, but it's possible. However, it requires the two things that remain lacking in the climate policy of the great majority, namely commitment and willingness to implement. Today’s debate shows better than ever why Norway needs to have a climate law that sets out clear, committed, national targets and sectoral targets for emissions reduction, which is responsible for government and single-country Councils and establishes a permanent procedure for implementation and reporting. With a climate law, many of the measures that will be voted on in today’s representative proposals would have been implemented. I note that many parties now after each mention climate law. It is most promising in this procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2975	I would first like to thank a representative with many measures. I would also like to thank you for decisions that contribute to strengthening the climate agreement. This government has already done a lot to lift the climate agreement. Through the government's draft budget and the harvest budgetary conciliation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, climate reconciliation was strengthened with increased commitment to climate technology, more to environmental technologies in industry, faster phase-out of oil fires from state properties, increased investment in the future transport system and strengthening climate and forest investment and international climate finance. The green shift is about phasing out fossil energy and replacing it with new clean energy sources. We need to implement new technologies such as electric cars and other zero-emission vehicles, and we need to shift the transport systems from car to public transport, bicycles and corridors, for example. to avoid the growth expected around the largest cities. The government has announced that we will introduce a ban on fossil fuel oil firing in households and to the baseload of other buildings. Fuelling with fossil oil as the base load in state construction is phased out by 2018 and in Landsbyggen’s properties by the end of 2016. It is important to impose environmental requirements on public acquisitions and the Sundvolden platform points to the importance of the country’s purchasing power in order to promote innovation. Requirements relating to collective procurement are an important area, but there are several considerations to be taken into account, as also pointed out in the Storting decision. The Government Platform agreed to facilitate shore-side electricity for ferries and cruise ships in several ports. A plan for increased use of shore-side electricity is a natural follow-up to the government platform. Norway has favourable arrangements for low-emission cars. As part of the work on a state-owned hydrogen strategy, we will look at how we can improve on this. In the cooperation platform, we have announced a review and evaluation of the use of instruments in several areas of energy policy. We have started working on a staggering message that will outline the long-term perspectives and challenges for Norwegian energy supply. The government wants an overall approach in energy policy where energy supply, climate challenges and industrial development are seen in the context. The Storing Communication will provide a broad review of energy policy and will include, inter alia: outline key themes affecting domestic production and consumption of energy. At the same time as we are working on individual measures to strengthen climate reconciliation, we are working on developing the framework for climate policy in Norway and internationally. As part of the climate agreement, the majority of the UK Energy and Environment Committee asked the government to investigate the appropriateness of a climate law in Norway. I have invited you to make recordings and views through a wide public consultation. The government has not taken a decision as to whether it is appropriate to introduce a climate law in Norway, and we will return to Stortinget with this case in an appropriate way. Internationally, the government is working for an ambitious agreement in Paris. At the Lima meeting of the Parties, it was agreed that all countries should report contributions to a new agreement that is more ambitious than that resulting from today’s efforts. It was important for the future, and Norway had an important role to play. And as part of a new climate agreement, Norway, like all other countries, has to give an idea of what indicative commitments Norway can take on beyond 2020. The government will return quickly to Stortinget with a separate notice on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2994	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e2997	Once again, we hear that the government is strengthening the climate agreement. I think you have to be a member of the Right Party or the Progress Party in order to think that the draft budget presented was a strengthening of the climate agreement. I would nevertheless say that nothing had really pleased me more than if the climate agreement had actually been reinforced. But if something has to be reinforced, the original targets have to be achieved first. So my question to the Council of State is, does she mean that she is leading the country towards reaching today's climate goals in the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3002	Today's government did not exactly come to the table of climate policy. That's why it was important for us to get a status on how we were going after the previous government. We got that status last March, and it turned out that we had a gap of 8 million tons by 2020. Now, the projection of adopted policies seems to be the gap of 6.5 million tonnes. There is therefore a need for reinforced efforts within climate policy, to which this government, in close cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, puts forward. We have to do more by 2020, and we have to – as I will come back to – do even more by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3007	So there shouldn't be many hours in this debate until we heard for the first time 'for eight years [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3012	I have no great interest in talking about what was before us, but the consequence of what has been before us is that we need to do even more to achieve what the Stortinget decided to do is to be the goal in 2020. That is why this government presented a large increase in the appropriations for the railways, so we have invested more in the climate technology fund, more in the climate technology system, more in biogas and in the phasing-out of oil fires in State Building properties. The consequence of what has been before us is that we have to do even more, but I am glad, now that I hear this debate, that there is quite a broad consensus in the Storting that we have to do more. For those who were responsible before us, have not done enough to achieve the 2020 targets. We know what gap we have, we're strengthening this to reduce that gap, and we need to get up with further measures to achieve the 2030 targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3017	We have received a good report from the Environment Directorate and a Document 8 that addresses this in itself – a series of necessary measures that the Christian People's Party believes need a more thorough assessment to ensure that the proposals are designed as intended. My question to the Council of State will be: When will the Council of State bring forward new, concrete measures and proposals for action in addition to what was agreed in the State budget for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3022	Now we're working on what's adopted for 2015. There's a reinforcement inside. So today, the Storting comes with further decisions we have to do something with, and then we come with Norway's indicative commitments by 2030, which also estimates that we have to do more both at home and outside. It's all about filling in with what we, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, have said about strengthening the climate agreement more to reduce emissions, not least in transport and construction in Norway, and strengthening the instruments to enable Norwegian industry to do more to reduce its emissions. I believe that we have chosen the right path now, where we must fill in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3028	I also appreciate the impatience of the Workers' Party, but I must remind you that the Workers' Party also had the opportunity. We have at least eleven proposals for which you could have voted, but you have not chosen to do so. There you could have taken a more offensive attitude. We fully agree, as many have claimed, that these measures are not enough to achieve the 2020 targets, but it must be seen in the context of both the budget and other issues that also come up against spring, not least the review of the car charges that we are going to have. But my question is simply about the 2020 target. We're going down to 47 million tons. Is it still attached to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3035	We're working to achieve the 2020 targets, and we're glad to see that the gap is reduced from 8 million tons to 6.5 million tons. We're filling in more tools now, and then we're going to have to make a projection for every year to see how far away we are. But now when we also say that we need to achieve more ambitious targets for 2030, we cannot reduce the 2020 targets. This is related to what we have to do on the road to the low-emission society in 2050. Here I believe that the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has made a good plan for it. I think it's a pleasure that there's now quite a consensus in Stortinget that we have to do more in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3045	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3059	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3066	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the rapporteurs Per Olaf Lundtägen and Marit Arnstad for putting an important issue on the agenda and the other constructive cooperation committee. Everyone has striven to ensure solutions that give a good start to the natural knowledge promise that needs to come. The government parties have shown flexibility, so that we now stand together to ensure an ecological base map for Norway. Let me draw out two things. We who have followed the environmental debate for a while know that the sharing of responsibilities between the Art Database and the Environment Directorate is demanding. With this setting, the Committee clearly determines the new role of the Species Database in the development of the organic base map for Norway. A unanimous committee writes: «The species database shall be responsible for the development of computer systems for the practical nature-type mapping of fields, the storage of nature-type data, the quality assurance of these data and the provision of the data to all users.» This means that professional knowledge of Norwegian species and natural habitat types is gathered in one place and that the Art Database is nabbed into a factual system to which all actors in all sectors must relate. At the same time, the Environment DG will continue to play its central role in using knowledge in practical management. A broad majority of the Committee shall require that the Executive Board: ‘recommends work on defining and ordering the identification of the valuable natural habitat types to be surveyed. The Environment Directorate shall also develop criteria for the valuation of nature and provide guidance on the management and care of nature. The Environment Directorate shall also continue the Nature Base, where demarcation of management areas based on the baseline data from nature type mapping is an element». We assume that the Minister for Climate and Environment quickly implements this clear division of labour in practice. It is essential to maximise the 25 million that the Storting has allocated to a knowledge gap for nature. And I hope that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment can confirm that this work is being undertaken quickly. Secondly, I am pleased that a broad majority in the Committee sees the urgent need to establish an ecological base map for Norway while we «provides that all existing natural base data and administrative councils are maintained and included in the land management knowledge base and are taken into account in land management». The consideration of the Committee requires that Norwegian nature be managed on a knowledge-based basis and that the best decisions and the most up-to-date knowledge be taken into account. This is a fundamental view that obliges and that both government and opposition should notice. This applies not only to parties, but above all to determining critical issues in the management plan for the sea areas, in decisions on marine landfills for mining waste or on new water power developments. We need value-neutral knowledge to know what and where the ice edge is and whether mining waste threatens the blulange spawning grounds. When we say that we want to base the objective, value-neutral facts of the Art Database on natural management, we also have to do that, for example. where the same Species database establishes that the species of wolf is critically threatened in Norway. In future sustainable Norway, which all seem to agree that we will develop – there is only a little disagreement about whether we want to do it now or another time – nature must necessarily have greater significance and value than it has today. A society in balance with the environment and the future needs to be based much more on resources that reproduce themselves – that is, on nature. Therefore, the need for more knowledge of Norwegian nature extends far beyond what is needed to ensure traditional nature protection. Today's good decision on a more knowledge-based nature management must therefore be a start, and the 25 million we now spend this year have to be multiplied many times to cover the natural mapping that we're going to need for the future. The basis for comparison is the billions we invest annually in petroleum screening. It is investment in natural knowledge in such a magnitude that we must think as we further develop the knowledge base for a sustainable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3095	Let me start by thanking the representative Rasmus Hansson for a very good post. The Labour Party shares his assessment, and in this case, the Labour Party and the Greens agree on almost all the comments on the matter. This is a very important debate, because, in addition to climate change, loss of biodiversity is the real environmental challenge we face. And it gets even bigger because of climate change. Biodiversity is also a major victim of climate change. We see today that natural diversity disappears at a pace that is dramatically much faster than what we have seen before. Most ecosystems will have problems adapting to a warmer climate. Species must move upwards in the mountain or northwards. Species with small populations are particularly vulnerable. So the work on biodiversity will only become more important over the years. The Labour Party wants many debates during this period on this important issue. Today, over 2000 species and over 40 natural habitats in Norway are endangered and need an active rescue action. Therefore, there is an urgent need to strengthen the protection and care of endangered nature – if not, much will be lost in the next decades. Biodiversity has a value in itself, but it also has a great value for humans. Species and habitat types produce vital services for us: clean water, clean air, medicines, food and public health. Therefore, diversity is necessary to ensure these services in the future. The Labour Party assumes that efforts to ensure the survival of species in Norway will be continued through the Nature Diversity Act and through the Natural Diversity Action Plan that the Government has said will come to Stortinget. The Labour Party expects the Storting to receive it during the year, and through the treatment of the Stortinge notification, we need to facilitate the development of new action plans for species and habitat types. We need to implement and implement concrete measures that re-establish damaged nature and provide protection against activities that may adversely affect the species. We need to strengthen species projects in order to gain more knowledge of nature. Let me end by saying that in order to strengthen the knowledge base of the future, we need a promise to recruit more young people to train and conduct research in this field. Key competences disappear if no more students are trained for increased knowledge and understanding of nature and biodiversity. So we both have to train more people and hire more people to work on this important work. Earlier today, the Stortinget dealt with the long-term plan for research and higher education, and we regret that in both this case and the case we dealt with earlier today, the government parties chose not to join the comments we have on the importance of this field. But we hope that the Minister will engage himself internally in the government, in cooperation with the Minister of Knowledge, to get more researchers in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3112	The natural diversity is the core wall on which people build society and economy. Robust ecosystems with a wide variety of species and genes ensure access to food, clean water and the natural resources we use to build houses and provide energy. They provide experiences and quality of life and are an important part of the culture of many different societies. In Norway, we are equipped with a varied nature and a variety of forms of life it is important to take care of. The ecosystem of the world's diversity of species provides countless and essential services. It is therefore essential that we manage biodiversity in a sustainable way. Human beings have a fundamental responsibility to manage nature. We have a duty to preserve our basis of life in such a way that we hand over the globe to our descendants in at least as good a condition as when we took it. Nature must therefore be managed with respect, on its own merits. Nature's diversity has been developed naturally over a long period of time and through the influence of civilization. It is an important task to take care of the diversity of nature for future generations. In the opinion of the Right, this is best done through a combination of protection and sustainable use. Art diversity has changed throughout earth's history, species have disappeared, changed, and new ones have emerged. This is a natural part of evolution and the way of life. This is why, among other things, it disappeared. The dinosaurs 65 million years ago, and a number of other species have disappeared as a result of their failure to adapt to changing living conditions on earth. This development has always occurred and will continue. What is serious is the extinction of species that are not part of the natural evolution and life-form of the earth, but that are in addition as a result of human activity, and are in progress at a much faster pace. This extinction of species is what we have to stop. However, although there are different perceptions of the speed with which species are eradicated, it is important that measures are put in place to preserve species diversity. Through the Convention on Biological Diversity, the world community has agreed to halt the eradication of species, and under this Convention, the country of the world of Nagoia agreed in 2010 on a strategic plan to achieve this objective by 2020. The Aichi targets are a plan consisting of 20 targets. The Convention is important, but the most important thing is how to follow it up at home in order to achieve its objectives. Many of the targets will be demanding in Norway, and they face a number of dilemmas and potential conflicts. An important tool to address natural diversity is the Nature Diversity Act, adopted by the Stortinget in spring 2009. It provides a common framework, principles and rules for the sustainable use and protection of natural diversity. An important prerequisite for the proper functioning of the Nature Diversity Act is that we have sufficient knowledge of different species, habitat types and ecosystems. The Government and the Cooperation Parties have launched the Knowledge Promise. In 2015, it's worth 25 million. kr for the mapping of endangered species and natural habitats. It's a good start. Increased knowledge is essential in order to pursue an environmental policy based on administrative responsibility. At the same time, increased knowledge will make it easier to reconcile nature's needs with the needs of modern civilization. In the future, too, we will need new roads, lines, power transmissions and more buildings and dwellings. A strong knowledge base will ensure more efficient and less contentious planning and development processes. The socio-economic gain of increased knowledge and increased monitoring will be significant. The Government has announced that it will present a new Action Plan on Natural Diversity in 2015 and that the Action Plan will include proposals for actions that will improve data base, data quality, databases and, in particular, data sharing. A high priority must be given to the acquisition of new concrete knowledge on the occurrence of valuable natural habitats. Today, the species database plays a very important and central role in providing objective assessments of red lists and blacklisting of species and habitat types. It is natural that the Species database plays a central role in the development of computer systems for the practical nature-type mapping, storage of nature-type data, quality assurance and making available. Let me end by saying that it is gratifying that there is such a broad consensus in the Stortinget about investing in increased knowledge of Norwegian nature. It is important to rust Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3135	I'd like to start by saying that being a politician in this period is very fun, because it allows for penetration for all the parties here in this room. That shows all the proposals that we agree on. I personally think that's very positive. But then to this matter, we need a knowledge lift for nature. A promise of knowledge will help us to get knowledge about the most valuable nature we have, nature that is particularly important to take care of in order to preserve biodiversity. Today, the situation is that three out of four of the most valuable natural areas in Norway have not been identified. Norway thus lacks a solid and accessible knowledge base on where the threatened nature is located. If we are to achieve this, we must map our nature, both for species and for habitat types. Knowledge-based management of nature requires values to be mapped to know where they are located. As early as 1997, it was a political objective that all municipalities should have carried out the monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity in the municipality's areas by 2004. In 2007, the number of young people in the EU increased. 27 000 locations on the mainland map. Today, some 51,000 have been surveyed. This would correspond to almost 40 pst. coverage after the 2007 figures, but in the meantime new habitat types have been introduced that were not known to be valuable in 2007. In addition, international commitments indicate that several habitat types should be identified. On this basis, the Environmental Assessment in October 2013 considered 25 p.m. coverage of major habitat types is a reasonable estimate on a national basis. At species level, knowledge is likely to be even worse. As a result, the coverage of valuable nature has been almost on-site since 2007. According to Section 8 of the Nature Diversity Act, public decisions relating to biodiversity must be based on knowledge. In addition, the precautionary principle shall be based. Better knowledge, in addition to ensuring natural values, will reduce conflicts and increase the speed of planning processes due to greater predictability. Knowledge of natural values will often enable adaptations to reduce conflicts. SABIMA, Norsk Industrie, Norsk Bergindustrie and the National Association of Construction took the initiative to raise knowledge for nature. Why do we find such a special alliance, must we say, together? Well, all experience suggests that when you have knowledge of natural values at the beginning of a planning process, it will often be possible to find alternatives and adaptations that reduce points of conflict or even eliminate them altogether – faster decisions in construction processes and less of threatening nature delay and cost the construction of roads and dwellings. At the same time, the speed of planning processes will increase because good mapping of natural values can take time. They are often seasonal and may require some planning. Nature has both self-esteem and provides us with valuable services. We are obliged to take care of the natural diversity under both national laws and international agreements. That's why we have to know where the natural values exist. When we know that, planning can take this into account and contribute to future generations enjoying biodiversity. Mapping will be the foundation for knowledge-based management. It is therefore in everyone's interest that nature types in Norway should be identified much better than today. I'm glad that in the budget agreement, we had a It's a start, and I hope we can increase the bet for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3163	Why is there a need for a promise of knowledge for natural diversity now? Well, that's because we have to bet more on the use of living organisms on land and in the oceans for people's carbon supply. So we have to have green carbons instead of black carbons from oil, gas and coal. It will increase pressure on rare species and habitat types, and in this important management we need to know what we are doing, so that we can combine increased use of green carbon from sea and land with protecting and caring for rare species and habitat types. The background is that Norway is one of the most diverse countries in Europe — from north to south, from east to west, from sea to high mountain. We are a rare country, with great variety and thus great species wealth. Exploration of the diversity of species and natural habitats was central to research and teaching at Norwegian universities and higher education institutions until the 1980s. Since then, internationalisation and research and education have completely changed the criteria for eligible research. Research with the main purpose of describing natural variation, species and ecosystems is not funded by the Research Council in 2015. Professionalism is under pressure, and there is a link between the reduction of professional environments and the weakening of protection on a scientific basis. And further, education: The weakening of natural diversity research at universities has led to the dwindling of research-based education. Field education has been greatly reduced, particularly in lower-level studies. And new candidates have much weaker knowledge of species, habitat types and mapping methods today than they did 30 years ago. Paradoxically, the demand for candidates with such broad knowledge has increased sharply. And the third: long-term. Nature is complex, deep natural diversity requires a diverse background in biology, geology, geography, chemistry and history – and many years of field work. Long-termity is a prerequisite for building up and maintaining such knowledge in individual and professional environments, and competence must be transferred between the scientific generations in order not to be lost. How should responsibility for different tasks within the nature diversity field be allocated? The background is that several hundred million dollars have been spent on the mapping of natural habitats and landscapes in Norway. Large parts of this mapping do not meet reasonable precision, value neutrality and reprobability requirements. The monitoring results must be quality assurance and must be party neutral in order to meet society’s needs for knowledge of the prevalence and state of natural habitat types and for monitoring changes. Knowledge-based natural management requires a clear distinction between three responsibilities. Paragraph 1 is overall professional responsibility – e.g. for the development of nature-type schemes, the mapping methods and the maintenance of species denominations, the certification of surveyors, the training and the continuation of training. Most of these tasks are historically part of the social mission of the university museums. The universities and their free role today prevent the Ministry of Knowledge from instructing universities to continue this responsibility. Because education has to be research-based, the Center Party believes that these tasks still have to be the responsibility of the University Museums, here the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Climate and Environment need to find a solution together. For the Centre Party, the obvious solution is a centre of natural diversity knowledge at the museums based on the good experience of the National Biosystematics Research School. And responsibility for maintaining national competence among different species groups and for nature-type variation needs to be allocated to different environments and long-term funding ensured. Point 2: Who will then be responsible for storing and making available value-neutral nature type data? This is where the Art Database is central. As a party-neutral knowledge institution, the Art Database should also be given a similar responsibility for nature-type information. Finally, responsibility for administrative assessments, including valuations, prioritisation of management measures, has to be assigned to each sectoral authority. So this is about: to have clear distinctions between the professional responsibility of the university museums to make knowledge available – the Art Database administrative assessments, for which each department is responsible Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Centre Party, the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3197	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3200	I strongly sympathise with the proposal, and it is important that we address the issue of having knowledge-based natural management and how to strengthen it in the years to come. I also agree with many of the main points of the review by Mr Lundtägen, and that has been said very well earlier in the debate, for example. on the central role of the species database. I'll be brief, but I'll take up what I think is perhaps the most important thing. It's that in the years to come we also follow up on the will that underlies the 25 million. kr that has now been entered in the budget. There's a lot of knowledge about what we need to do, but there has to be a will to follow it up systematically, with funds over time. Getting that knowledge can also make a strange impression. For my own part, I got in the past called a snout-vessel after me, an Aphelinus elvestueni, which I am very proud of. It is registered at the Agricultural University of Tbilisi, and this is done in collaboration with the University of Oslo and a university in Texas, which continues to work with it. But that's now a little bit of detail. Clearly, with the lack of systematics in getting knowledge of biodiversity in Norway, we need to continue the knowledge promise we launched – I believe – in the budget for this year. From the left, at least we have to be clear that this is only a first step, and that is something we are going to put on at new budgetary rounds in the years to come. It is also important, as the proposers also point out, that the knowledge gained must be transparent and freely accessible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3213	The President would like to congratulate the representative of Elvesuen on having been named a snylteveps after him. For my own part, I would have preferred a slightly larger animal, but a snylteveps is not so bad either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3216	I want to thank the Center Party in particular for lifting this important matter. This has been an interesting committee management with regard to the proposal for a representative. Now there is a joint committee that determines that loss of nature is one of the major challenges of our time. When we humans eradicate a species, there is no right of withdrawal. Saka is well and thoroughly done well for. In order to take care of the natural defect, there is a need for knowledge first and foremost. Therefore, it is good that almost all of the Storting thinks that there is a need for a knowledge gap for nature. Now we are all committed to contributing by providing sufficient follow-up in the budgets ahead, as also the Elvesu pointed out. Furthermore, it is important for the knowledge of natural disasters that the Committee recognises that the Art Database plays a key role. I am therefore pleased that a Joint Committee decides that the Art Database should be responsible for the development of data systems for practical nature-type mapping in fields, for the storage of nature-type data, for the quality of the data and for making data available to users. I also refer to the committee setting when it comes to comments and positions from SV. The great handling of measures and instruments to deal with natural disasters comes in the big news of natural disasters, which the government has now committed itself to presenting, and in SV we look forward to that debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3230	I am very pleased that the whole committee, with the exception of the Center Party, agrees with me that the most important thing now is to gain more knowledge about nature. Loss of natural diversity is one of our greatest environmental challenges. I am committed to preserving nature both for its self-esteem and for the value it has for today's and future generations. We need a good knowledge of what we do to take care of nature. We need that in order to achieve the national objectives, which are to maintain or work for good status in Norwegian ecosystems, to preserve endangered nature and to ensure representative conservation of nature. In recent years, environmental management has placed a great deal of emphasis on improving knowledge. Management shall be and shall be knowledge-based. Nevertheless, there is a need to further develop and improve the knowledge base. The most important thing is to get more information about where the most important nature is, and what species we have, that is. That we need more mapping. In this respect, I refer to the increase of 25 million. for the mapping of nature in the year’s budget. In the forthcoming Communication on the National Action Plan for Nature Diversity, I will present proposals for action to improve knowledge of Norwegian nature. In order for us to get good knowledge, people who have the necessary skills from universities and colleges must be trained. There is a cause for concern when research into species and habitat types over several years has been reduced in scale and status. Together with the Minister of Knowledge, I will work to improve this in the work on the long-term plan for research and higher education. Natural habitat types shall be surveyed by the most objective, value-neutral and verifiable method. A common nature-type standard is important. It facilitates the contribution of several sectors to a common commitment to improve the knowledge base. I believe that the nature types of the Species Database in Norway should be at the heart of this. This constitutes a common classification scheme for nature mapping. Classification and definitions should form the basis for all nature monitoring, both in environmental management and in other sectors. This results in simplifications and improvements, as well as increased resource efficiency. The species database shall provide the community with up-to-date and easily accessible knowledge of habitat types and species. They should develop data systems for practical nature-type mapping in fields, store nature-type data and quality-safe data, and make the data available to all users. The Directorate-General for the Environment will define the natural habitat types to be surveyed and order their identification. They shall also establish criteria for the valuation of nature. It is an important principle that data on species and habitat types should be transparent and freely accessible to all users. The work to ensure that publicly funded knowledge is made available shall be continued. Today, sadly, natural information is not available in public databases. Examples of this are data collected through impact studies, i.e. KU. A revised KU legislation that came into force on 1 January of this year now includes requirements for the entry of data into public databases. A good knowledge base should underpin our use of instruments. Many of the means of taking care of nature are found in the Nature Diversity Act. The Government Declaration states that the Law on Nature Diversity must be firm but that practice must be reviewed. We've done this. The Government will provide a plan for the use of natural resources through the National Action Plan on Natural Diversity (NAP) Communication. Clarification of the use of the instruments, priority species and selected habitat types will be included here, including: based on recommendations from that experience collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3248	There have been many conflicts related to the protection of species and natural habitats, and the Nature Diversity Act is the legal basis for protection. To gain greater confidence in natural management, there has to be a knowledge-based natural management. I will then ask the Council of State questions about the distinction between responsibilities here, whether the Council of State agrees with it, about a clear distinction between overall professional responsibilities, where objective, verifiable knowledge is presented by common methodology, the making available of knowledge through the Art Database and, finally, the administrative assessments relating to each sectoral authority. Do the Councils agree to that sharing of responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3255	What I now understand is that the Committee also helps to clear up what is the responsibility of the Art Database, and what is the responsibility of the Environment Directorate. I think it makes a lot of sense with the clarifications that have been made in dealing with this matter, that we are now looking forward to looking at how we can best solve the challenges we have with too little knowledge. I think the basic challenge here is to get more knowledge. We have now also been given increased appropriations in 2015 to improve the monitoring of this. I think it's the basics. And now we are further clarifying what the Art Database is responsible for, and what the Environment Directorate is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3260	There is no disagreement about the question of getting more knowledge, and I hope at the same time that there is also a consensus that knowledge must be managed in such a way that more trust is gained among the parties to use it, so that conflicts can be reduced. I have to repeat my question: does the Council of State agree that we should have a clear three-part distinction between – point 1 – the person who acquires the knowledge, i.e. the professional, independent and verifiable methods they use, the Art Database – point 2 – the person who is responsible for the species information, and the administration – point 3 – that is related to the individual sectoral authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3267	I see that the committee in its position is involved in clarifying who is responsible for what, and that makes sense. But I would also like to remind you that the Environmental Directorate's monitoring manuals have provided a very important basis for Norwegian nature since the 1990s. And that nature-type mapping has made it possible, for both municipalities and sectors, to have an overview of and take into account habitat types, which are important for biodiversity. We also know that when the next version of the Species Database classification system, Nature Types in Norway, comes this year, it can also be used for a new nature-type mapping. But the basic thing is to get more knowledge of Norwegian nature, and we are further clearing up now to clarify what the Art Database is responsible for, and what the Environment Directorate is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3274	When the Central Party promoted the proposal, it was to get away and away from some of the unnecessary conflicts that we have. And what I'm now trying to get the Council of State to confirm is the same thing that I understand lies in the setting, and that there's a broad consensus about. However, it is very essential and important to have the third party clearly: there shall be one party responsible for obtaining knowledge on a technical and scientific basis; another party shall be responsible for disseminating knowledge to all interested parties; and the third party shall be responsible for weighing this out, namely the individual sectoral authority, which shall be responsible for the administrative evaluations. I cannot see that there is anything in the setting that is contrary to what I am now saying, but if you get such a clarification, you get a smaller conflict. Is the Council of State in agreement with the purpose and division that I have now outlined?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3281	When the representative Lundtigen will not support the rest of the committee in the overall clarification of responsibility between the Art Database and the Environment Directorate, it will be in a way that one should interpret it as an attempt to question the responsibility of the Environment Directorate. This is what I am concerned about: What is the responsibility of the Art Database, and what is the responsibility of the Environment Directorate? I believe that the Committee here has come up with a good clarification of that. I'm concerned that we're taking the clarifications further, that we're looking forward to how we can best solve the challenges we have with having too little knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3288	One of the good things about the proposal of the Centre Party – which the Council of State has also addressed in a good way – is that we need to raise awareness of the need to resume education and research in the area of being able to Norwegian species diversity and to be able to Norwegian nature, which has been weakened by the way we have set up the university system at present. We need biologists who not only know the difference between genomes in different flammarts, but also know the difference between spruce, spruce and spruce imagery. When the Council of State announced that she and the Minister of Knowledge will address this: Can she elaborate when we can expect a clear plan for how this need will be addressed – whether she will come back to Stortinget with such a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3295	What I said was that I would follow this up through the further work on the long-term plan for research and higher education. I share Mr Hansson's view that we have too few people involved in this field. It is estimated that we have a total of 25-30 doctoral scholarships in biosystematics at the universities today, with funding from different sources. In addition, 50 permanent scientific staff are assigned to the same field of activity. The need to cover this area of knowledge is much greater. That is why I warned in my speech that I – along with the Minister of Knowledge – take this into account in the long-term plan for research and higher education that the government is now working on. I do not dare to determine right now when one comes back to Stortinget with this, but I have said that I take it up in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3304	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3310	Nature monitoring over the past 15 to 20 years has, despite varying quality, observed and identified numerous species, and many important nature-type sites have been discovered. That's basic. That's where we stand, and we have to build on that. That's the basis that we now have. But the challenge is that in the practice of this professional basis, it turns out that there is a great gap in knowledge. There are large gaps in knowledge about the lack of reproducibility, and different screening methods have been used. I am very pleased with the state council's clarification that we are now going to have verifiable documentation of these important natures and species, and that we are going to have a mapping methodology that is equal to. And as for what I said in my first post on the professional basis, I feel that the Council of State followed up, and I am very grateful for that. What is needed now to fill the major knowledge gaps that exist is a broad, national effort, where research institutions and non-governmental organisations promise to unite. And I would like to stress that there has to be an interaction between the research institutions and non-governmental organisations, but it has to be the same methodology, so that any voluntary organisation that comes to the conclusion that these are rare entities, indicates it in a way that allows others to go in and look at that statement and comment on it, and thus make it better, so that the work is done more skillfully. All relevant competences must therefore be mobilised. Adequate and long-term funding is important. There's nothing more long-term than what we're doing here. We're going to look at both the species situation at the time, and we're going to follow the evolution of species and habitat types. And where a protection is to be carried out, we have to make sure that what is the purpose of the protection is precisely described, and that protection is to be guaranteed forever in the future, so long-term is the most central part of what we are talking about here. Finally, I would like to ask about the role of universities and colleges in this. As it is today, the free role of universities and colleges prevents the Ministry of Knowledge from instructing universities to continue with their previous responsibilities. I said that the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Climate Change and the Environment have to solve this together, so that the university museums get the financial resources needed to do this. I would like the Council of State to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3323	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3339	Management of our seas is a very important task. It's about our generation not destroying the possibilities for future generations. Norwegian marine areas have a good environmental standard, and we have a great deal of knowledge about the marine areas and what they are there, but also about how different conditions affect the ecosystems that our marine areas represent. A complex system has been developed, balancing different considerations through the management plans for the various sea areas. These plans aim to coordinate and prioritise the sustainable use of resources, while at the same time setting binding requirements for protection. The great advantage of the management plans is that they are based on massive knowledge acquisition, impact assessments and different venues where the viewpoint is focused on each other. The need for a more comprehensive management of Norwegian seas was made clear in the context of the 2002 review of the Clean and Rich Seas Storing Communication. From then on until now, the whole and the knowledge have been the cornerstone of the administration. Therefore, the organisation of the management plan has been organised in such a way that all sectoral authorities and other interested parties need to cooperate in the work on the management plans. The work on the management plans shall be coordinated by an inter-ministerial steering group where all the departments concerned are represented. This provides a professional strength in the work, where the underlying trade unions also contribute to their professional competence. The management plans are not intended to be final. On the contrary, the management plans should ensure that we constantly have up-to-date knowledge and that political balances are taken into account. The management plans also highlight the issues that need to be addressed, including: to ensure good co-existence between the different areas weighted in the different plans. Further work is important for the road and the next rolling. When Stortinget examined the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, an overall committee wrote at the time, in spring 2009, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Committee has noted that the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea is good and that the most well-known valuable and vulnerable areas are identified in the management plan. However, there is a significant need for knowledge related to more precise information on environmental values such as coral reefs and other natural diversity on the seabed in the Norwegian Sea.’» In addition, it says that: ‘The Committee is therefore satisfied with the need to focus on knowledge acquisition and mapping and to use this as a basis for its support for the management plan. Furthermore, the Committee took note of the fact that the management plan should be rolling and updated regularly for the first time by 2014. Complete audits shall be carried out in 2025.» Stronger and clearer leadership cannot really be laid from Stortinget! On 27 November last year, Mr. Eva Kristin Hansen asked a written question, which was actually explained through the President's speech. She – and now signed – asks questions about the technical basis for updating the Norwegian Management Plan to be completed by the Professional Forum by 15 April 2014. Then comes the question: ‘Are these plans available and when has the Council of State intended to publish them?’ The answer given was as follows: ‘In the light of clarifications in the government’s political platform, the government has not taken a final decision on the need to provide an update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan now. The technical basis for updating the management plan for the Norwegian Sea is well under way and will be published soon.» This was a worrying message from the responsible State Council. This should not really be the case, and it cannot be that one ignores something like a co-ordinated increase until those degrees have laid the basis for their agreement to a management plan, and I hope that this answer was a mistake from the Minister for Climate and Environment. I'm quoting again: ‘In the light of clarifications in the government’s political platform, the government has not taken a final decision on the need to provide an update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan now.’ This is, in my opinion, an unacceptable answer, unless it is the wish of the Council of State to put aside what the Storting so emphatically said in the spring of 2009. I don't think so. I hope this is not the beginning of the government's intention to break a very good tradition that started with the big news of a clean and rich sea in 2002 and that has followed us, in fact, until today, through the work undertaken in the preparation and rolling of the management plans. I therefore hope that the Minister for Climate and Environment will be very clear and without any reservations guarantee that the management plan for the Norwegian Sea – and other roll-overs – will come to Stortinget, and that roll-over for the Norwegian Sea will come in the current year. Another question that has emerged and, to say the least, updated this interpellation is that in the last few days, the government's very remarkable announcement of the 23rd concession round for the oil industry has been made. On the very day of the call, the Minister for Climate and Environment announced that a single update of the edge of the ice and its definition would be made in the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea – most remarkable! What are we going to expect? Is there a case based on the same administrative principles that have been incorporated for previous roll-over? Can we expect up-to-date knowledge bases, impact assessments and hearings to form the basis? Or is it once again such that the government breaks the premise, based on a highly unclear political definition, which will once again break with the principle of the essential foundations of the management plans on up-to-date knowledge, new impact assessments and professional balances? Finally, I hope that this interpellation can clearly clarify the following issues. Point 1: Will the State Council continue to base its assumptions on the roll-out and updating of the knowledge base in the management plans on Norwegian maritime management practices? If ‘yes’, how often does the Minister for Climate and Environment feel that existing management plans should be rolled and updated in a holistic and sound manner? And point 3: Will the Council of State ensure, when the Storting gets an update of the ice edge sometime during the spring, that it is based on the same professional principles and thoroughness and analysis that lie in an ordinary rolling of the management plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3386	The sea areas are of great importance to Norway. The sea and the coast have shaped the development of Norwegian society and shaped a lot of our identity. The sea holds great environmental values and resources, both what we've known for a long time, and things that we don't yet have knowledge of. Norwegian trade and economy are strongly linked to the sea, from maritime transport and shipbuilding to fish and aquaculture, oil and gas. Norway shall be a leading country in the overall and ecosystem-based management of marine areas. It is an objective to ensure a holistic ecosystem-based management that takes care of natural diversity and provides a basis for the sustainable use of resources. Internationally, Norway has a leading role to play in developing knowledge and management of the environment and resources in the sea and continental shelf. The management plans have gained significant international recognition. A number of countries have now established a similar management of marine areas, including The EU through the Marine Strategy Directive. Climate change and increased activity in marine areas are constantly creating new challenges. The port of Norway has an interest in maintaining and further developing the role of a responsible manager of the sea. In St.meld. No 12 for 2001–02, Clean and rich seas, the so-called Marine Environment Communication, promoted a more ecosystem-based and cross-sectoral marine environmental policy with comprehensive management plans as a tool. In the marine environment communication, it appeared, among other things: at: ‘The overall management plans for the sea areas will, on the basis of the sectoral impact studies, provide the basis for the establishment of protection areas and provide general guidelines for activities in the sea areas.’;» The situation was then characterised by fragmented management and lack of an overall knowledge base. Whole management plans have now been drawn up for all Norwegian sea areas. These are all based on common professional bases developed across sectors. The aim of the management plans is to facilitate value creation through the sustainable use of resources and ecosystem services in marine areas while maintaining the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. The management plans are therefore a tool for both the organisation of value creation and the maintenance of environmental values in marine areas. The management plans contribute to the transparency of the overall framework, coordination and priorities in the management of marine areas. With this in mind, Norway has a policy tool for overall maritime governance and for the legitimacy of decisions on the balance between business interests and environmental concerns in our seas. As you know, the management plans have received broad support in Stortinget. The interpellence of the representative of Aasland provides an opportunity to clarify that the work of the management plan takes place in two stages. The first stage is the technical basic work, while the second stage is the management plans themselves for the individual sea areas. It is in the management plans themselves that the government presents its overall policy to balance environmental concerns and the sustainable use of marine resources. Let me state immediately that the government will continue the management plans for the sea areas as political tools. Due to the rapid changes taking place in the Barents Sea, related to climate change and the melting of the sea, the government during this major period will ensure the start of work on a technical basis for a full revision of the Barents Sea and off-Lofoten seas management plan. The revised management plan will be presented in a Communication to the Stortinget in 2020. The size has provided for similar revisions to the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in 2025 and to the North Sea and Skagerrak management plan in 2030. An important intervention in the management plans is the identification of some areas such as particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. These are areas which, based on scientific assessments, have a significant impact on biological production and/or biodiversity in marine areas, even outside the areas themselves. These areas have a high density of environmental values such as fish, seabird, etc. and are vulnerable to various human influences. Actions in the management plans have chosen to show particular care in the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. Such a particularly valuable and vulnerable area is the edge of the ice. When examining the management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten in 2011, the Stortinget concluded that no petroleum activities were to be started at the ice edge of the previous grossing-up period. This has continued in the government's political platform based on the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left for the current period. At the same time, Stortinget has provided that this does not preclude petroleum activities throughout the Barent Sea in the south-east. The edge of the ice has moved north in recent years. As most have noted, during the spring of 2015, the government will provide the Stortinget with an update of the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan with an up-to-date calculation of the ice edge. The edge of the management plan is defined, on a professional basis, back to 2003, and has served as the basis for indicating the particularly valuable and vulnerable area at the edge of the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan in 2006 and 2011. This is now being updated with new ice data from satellite observations. A follow-up system has been established under the management plans with regular monitoring, assessment and reporting of the state of the environment and other relevant conditions. This is done through the cross-sectoral advisory groups the Monitoring Group and the Professional Forum. Professional work is a continuous process. The monitoring group consists of relevant departments and research institutions and is managed by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea. The mandate of the Group is laid down by the ministries concerned. The monitoring team shall contribute, according to its mandate, to the proper coordination of ongoing monitoring and to the compilation and evaluation of relevant monitoring results. The monitoring team shall disseminate the results of the team’s professional work and report regularly on developments in the state of the environment in each of the three Norwegian seas, inter alia. on the environmental status.no website. In addition to the Monitoring Group, a Professional Forum for the Integrated Ecosystem-based Management of Norwegian Seas, chaired by the Environment Directorate and composed of departments and research institutions under the departments concerned, has been established. Professional forums work on the basis of a common mandate established by all the ministries concerned. The Group shall develop the overall technical basis for updates and revisions of the management plans, including: describe changes and trends in the state of the environment as well as the activity of industries, current and future land use, impacts on the environment as well as the value creation of marine industries. The reports are presented publicly and are subject to consultation, so that organisations and the public also have the opportunity to comment on the professional basis and any other matters they consider should be taken into account when the government is to submit a management plan. In this way, it is a specific feature of the management plans that the professional base work is carried out in full across the underlying departments and relevant research institutions. When updating or revising the management plans, a common technical basis is normally compiled from the Professional Forum after ordering from the ministries and in line with the mandate of the Professional Forum. This is the central basis for the subsequent policy process of updating or revising the management plan itself. When updating the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan with an up-to-date calculation of the ice edge, the appointment of the technical basis is limited to this specific theme, as this is the central issue to be submitted to the Stortinget. The updates have been carried out so far for an approximate five-year cycle, while more thorough revisions have been made after about five years. every 15 years. The professional work of the management plans, in both the Monitoring Group and the Professional Forum, means that knowledge of the sea areas is kept up to date. I would therefore argue that Norwegian overall maritime management is always based on an up-to-date knowledge base. Finally, let me point out that the Stortinget has agreed that Norway should ‘be a priority country in terms of global and ecosystem-based management of marine areas’ in the treatment of the Northern Region Communication in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3427	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that we are very much in agreement with the idea of how the management plans are to be implemented. This is what the Minister for Climate and Environment has just said. But I want to underline a few elements. Firstly, there must be no doubt that a political consensus or disagreement outside this Chamber or between any party in relation to this Chamber is not a basis for disregarding the principles, methods or leadership of the Storing at an earlier date. It is doubtful that the Stortinget provided for the roll-over of this plan in 2014 for its approval of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in 2009. It is then worrying that, despite what she is saying now, the Minister for Climate and Environment has chosen to ignore – for the time being – this roll because one has agreed on something outside the Storting that for Storting itself is breaking indifferent. The size has asked for a roll-over and a new baseline assessment in 2014 but has not received it. That's what's really important about it. Then there is also reason to question what I think many in this room perceive as a bit of an abnormal practice, when one is going to update the Lofoten and the Barents Sea management plan specifically related to the ice edge. I will not foreshadow what we are going to mean in that matter. I just want to signal very clearly already that I expect the thorough, professional assessment, knowledge-based approach to the issues and the analysis related to them to be actually explained when the Stortinge is brought to the attention of that matter. If not, there is also a cause for concern, because then a real start is to leave a pattern and a principle related to the management plans, because a person wants to take care of a political interest or motivation. In my opinion, it will be to leave the good trend and good practice developed in connection with the management plan work, where knowledge is the key to further policy management. So finally, in view of the experience that the Minister for Climate and Environment has had as Minister for Climate and Environment this year and a half, can she respond to how often one should roll the management plans, as it is a little untraditional for a government to come and present a single matter to the Stortinget in connection with a management plan? Is it necessary now to roll more frequently than previously assumed? And will the Minister for Climate and Environment possibly take responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3440	I think we should deal with what has been agreed in the past, that a full revision, which is a complete review of long-term changes in the ecosystem, where one lays the professional basis for reviewing the whole of the management plan itself, lasts every fifteen years. What we're doing with the ice-cream is updating. We believe that this message will be thematically bounded on the edge of the Barents Sea ice. The assessment is therefore that there is no need to involve the entire Professional Forum with all the underlying agencies, but that the job can be done by the Norwegian Polar Institute. The Norwegian Polar Institute also participates in the Secretariat of the Professional Forum together with the Environment Directorate. But, as I also said in my first post, at the same time in this growing period, we are going to start a thorough professional process until a full revision of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten in 2020. I believe that we follow up on what the Storting has provided that the management plans are to be maintained, where we are able to balance it with full revision, but also updates when necessary, and that in the updates we are given the technical basis for the assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3451	Since Terje Aasland submitted this interpellation before Christmas, the matter has become very topical, so we would like to thank the Presidentship of the Great Britain for having found a very good time to have this debate on. It was in no way the plan when it came this very day, but today I am pleased that we have this opportunity to challenge the climate and environment minister on this important topic. Management plans are our most important means of managing our seas in a safe and sustainable way – that all human activity should be managed in a wider context. We need to make sure that what we do, does not destroy nature and the unique marine ecosystems. It is true, as the minister says, that this is something we can really be proud of in Norway, it is one of our foremost foreign policy exports. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs travels around the world, he boasts of this to his colleagues, and he has good reason to do so, because this is a very good way to manage knowledge and know that we are always using the best available knowledge of the sea in terms of the kind of activities that people can do. These are the main tools of the Minister for Climate and Environment. In her answer she seemed very aware of that herself. That is why we find it surprising and really eye-catching that the Minister has been so defensive so far towards the Storting that she is going to present updated management plans to the Norwegian Sea. It happened throughout the red-green period. So far, the answers from the government have been different in written form to Stortinget, it was somewhat more reassuring what we heard now. Activities in the marine areas confront us with major dilemmas and difficult political choices. I believe history has shown that we have managed to make relatively good choices, that we have managed to reconcile important different considerations. I think a lot of this is because in Norway we have some of the world's leading professionals, who have been able to give us the best basis. The night before the oil industry was going to have its big conference in Sandefjord this year, the climate minister sent out a press release that the ice edge had changed. This is a matter that will be raised in the Grand Duchy later this year, and that is not why we have this debate today. But I think it's a pity that the government has set up a race that makes the discussion largely about what are the facts, and not about what are the political priorities. It's clear that there are big differences in the assessments made by the different parties, and I actually think that there are also differences within the parties as to what kind of assessments you make regarding activity related to the sea areas, so let's have the important debates. But now it's created a debate about what the facts are. In the Red-Green Government and internally in the Workers' Party, we have these discussions, but we always have them with the same reality, with the same facts on the ground, and it's always been the professionally agreed basis. We set up multidisciplinary groups with a common factual basis – there should be no doubt. I think it's a shame that you have now chosen another process, where you take out one area and send it to the Stortinget. I don't believe anybody makes a discussion about what it is that is really the facts. We should always have the best facts available to deal with, and it is the climate and environment minister who has the highest responsibility. We expect that responsibility to be taken. This weekend there was a portrait interview with the Minister of Climate and Environment in the Business of Today. Not unnaturally, there were several questions about the edge of the ice and whether she was in for what the government has done. But on questions about what she thought about the activity there, she says, ‘Yes, but there’s another debate’. On how climate change affects this, she again says, ‘This is another debate.’ But that’s exactly why we have management plans – because we’re going to see the debates in a context, because we’re not going to do like the climate minister and say that this is another debate. The management plans have not been created to create increased activity. They are created to ensure that we take into account nature and sustainability, and that we base the precautionary principle. Because of climate change, areas are changing. Ice melts, the species die, and the areas change. It makes us constantly need to improve our knowledge, put knowledge into a larger context. There are strong interests for major activities of different kinds in the sea. Unfortunately, there are not so strong forces as to move towards the precautionary principle that all parties say should be taken into account. The work on the management plans is one of the most important tools to reconcile this. These are the tools of the Minister for Climate Change, and we have therefore regretted that we believe that this has been too defensive a position on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3470	It is good that the representative of Aasland is involved in management plans. It's an important tool that many people have been involved in. At the same time, I am a little stunned by trying to make a link between a technical update for the Norwegian Sea being delayed – it will probably not be the first time that something is delayed in Norway, even in the world’s richest country – and a definition of an ice edge in a completely different sea. One is about the Norwegian Sea, and the other is about the Barents Sea. The Aukrus representative was concerned about the facts. Of course, we are, and that's exactly why it was so important to get new, up-to-date facts about where the iceberg is going. It was not least because the Stortinget had made a decision that, on the one hand, there should be no petroleum activity at the ice edge. On the other hand, this should not prevent the whole Barents Sea from opening south-east to petroleum activities. So, unfortunately, the edge of the ice has moved northwards as a result of climate change. There has been no ice in the Barents Sea south-east for the last ten years at all. So when you take into account the fact that the ice edge has withdrawn, by adding up-to-date ice maps, we are in the happy situation that the Storting no longer contradicts itself. With the updated ice data, there is no chance of ice in the Barents Sea south-east, as the Polar Institute has provided it. Of course, we are concerned that there should be good professional processes underpinning the management plans, that the professional basis should be strong. That will also be the case, and it will be based on exactly the same procedures and processes that have been the basis for previous management plans, when a comprehensive, up-to-date management plan for the Barents Sea-Lofoten area will be established by 2020. It is important to stress that very strict requirements and restrictions are imposed on the petroleum industry when petroleum activities are now opened in these areas — i.e. The size has already opened up, but the government has at the same time ensured that drilling time limits will apply to the whole of the Barents Sea. There is a tightening of the requirements which will make it impossible to drill at times of the year as there is a risk that there may be ice, and it will still be such that 50 km from the physical edge of the ice it will not be possible to operate petroleum. And pulling the ice south – which has not happened in the last ten years – will have to end their operations and withdraw southwards. There shall be very safe frameworks around any petroleum activity in this area, and I believe that it may be appropriate for the Workers' Party to now clarify whether they still agree with themselves – whether they still believe that 23rd concession rounds should remain firm within the framework of the Storting, whether they still agree that the definition of their own government at the time of drawing up the management plan should be based on the continuation, or whether they believe that the Storting should adopt a completely different definition of the ice edge. In that case, it will be a completely new policy. There are not so many parties that contribute to creating uncertainty about these things now, but I might say that the Workers' Party is one of them, and it could be an advantage if the interpellant used the opportunity to clarify whether the Workers' Party believes that the professional definitions that the Red-Green Government put its trust in are also valid during this period, or whether they believe that the professional basis was not good enough. That would be interesting information in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3487	As stated by the Council of State, the Bondevik II Government provided the basis for the work on the overall management plan for both the Barents Sea and other Norwegian sea areas through St. meld. No 12 for 2001-2002, clean and rich seas. Sustainable development has always been a key objective of this work. The management plans are important because they establish conditions for fishing, shipping and petroleum activities in the context of sustainable development. There is a nine-time and thorough work behind a management plan. In 2009, the Norwegian Government presented its management plan for the Norwegian Sea. The work on this had been going on since 2007. The planning process started in March 2007 with factual descriptions, a social description and a larger spatial and environmental resource description, including valuable areas. Work was also started to identify indicators for monitoring. These formed the basis for further work on the consequences. There were 19 different peer reviews with an examination of the consequences. Four main investigations were carried out. New hearings followed and new reports. In 2008, a consultation conference was held in Ålesund. With this conference, and the summary of the hearing opinions subsequently, the technical work was completed. Then the politicians took over. The Norwegian Sea has a high biological production and holds a large amount of organisms, which form the basis for the rich fish, seabird and mammal populations. The marine environment is an open ecosystem and, like all natural ecosystems, it is constantly changing. Man is part of the great natural processes, and we affect them through our activities. When the impact becomes too great, ecosystems will be damaged. The answer to these challenges is to operate ecosystem-based management. This includes, inter alia: that we need to see all the different activities in the Norwegian Sea as a whole and that there are ecosystems that provide the framework for how much influence we can allow. To that it is absolutely essential with knowledge. The management plans are based on knowledge of the consequences of activities that may affect the state of the environment, the resource base, social conditions and the ability to engage in other activities. This applies in particular to petroleum activities, fishing and shipping. Management plans are therefore far more important than whether or not to operate petroleum, as the Council of State's response to the written question from the representative Hansson may seem. I agree with the inter-pellant on the need for management plans to be rolled and updated regularly. The climate change we are witnessing today is happening at great speed. Therefore, we need up-to-date knowledge to both know what the situation is, what action needs to be taken, and whether the measures we have already taken are working. Lack of knowledge makes the assessments of climate change impacts and human activity uncertain in the future. A combination of monitoring, environmental monitoring and research is necessary for a better understanding of the patterns we find and for assessing the vulnerability of species and areas and the stability of ecosystems. Climate change and overfishing can bring about major changes in the species composition and dynamics of ecosystems. In particular, we need more knowledge of the resilience of marine areas to both natural and man-made influences. We also need to know more about processes at the ice edge, at the polar front and about other particularly valuable and vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3513	We have extremely rich sea areas, which it is important to maintain in a sustainable way, and the management plans are central tools for doing so. I am listening to the discussion and trying to get to grips with what is really the issue. When a management plan is to be rolled, it is closely linked to when it is really a professional basis and when the needs are there. For the Norwegian Sea – a little independent of the decisions that were made in 2009, that was before my time here – at least we have not, from the left, known something urgent need for this to happen very quickly. This is an assessment that needs to be made when there is a professional basis for us to do this. In the course of the discussion, the question of the edge of the ice has emerged. There is a matter for Stortinget during the spring, and there has also been a full review of the management plan in 2020. The left agrees that the issue of ice should come to Stortinget. What is now done, and as the Council of State has done, is to the extent that updating the figures and observations made around the ice edge, and there is no disagreement about it. The disagreement is reflected in the Polar Institute’s consultation opinion, which criticises the method – i.e. not the figures that are now included in the update – and considers that more account should be taken of the ice edge and not take as much risk as the methodology used in the previous management plan. That's where it's 30 pst. ice, while the Polar Institute’s advice is to go further south, where there is less ice, to take account of the variation in ice prevalence year by year and the possible variation in ice prevalence, which is now there, quite independently of the fact that the average ice location is moving northwards due to climate change and global warming. Just the risk assessment of how we should take political account of the figures and the facts presented to us, I believe that it is a political assessment that it is right that the Storting has a debate on. So we're because that part comes to the Stortinget and is debated here in the spring. The strength of the management plans is precisely that there is a factual basis from a wide range of sectors. There are many processes leading to a management plan. The sustainable development of marine areas shall be taken into account. But ultimately, there is also a political balance of the different interests, and right now, with regard to the edge of the ice, with the changes that are, we believe it is right that the political balance must go to the Storting, although there is agreement on the figures themselves. The left is based on the Polar Institute's clear advice, which says that there must be greater certainty that you do not go into vulnerable areas than what the government has announced, namely that you just want to update the numbers by the old method.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3524	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a question of great importance for both Norway and the management of our marine areas, namely the ambiguity that arose around our Management Plan Institute in the much-mentioned response from the Minister for Climate and Environment. As others have pointed out, the scheme of management plans for the Norwegian sea areas is something we should all be proud of. Many countries look to Norway and how we obtain knowledge-based information and base ourselves on it – at least to a certain extent – in our management of our marine areas. Climate change, climate change, wildlife, flora, geology and seabed – knowledge of all this should be reflected in the assessments we make in the management plans, to a greater extent than they have now, I would like to add. The whole purpose of such a system is that the knowledge base should be up-to-date and that we thus have the best possible basis for managing marine areas at all times. In time, this approach will become more important and important – because climate change affects our marine areas, because activity and shipping will increase, and because pressures on marine resources will increase. That's why there was a bit of a strange signal in the much-discussed response that the Minister for Climate and Environment gave to the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, because if updates of management plans from now on should depend on the ideas and political discussions of the government at all times, is much of the point of the management plans gone, and that would be a breach of the assumptions about updates and rollouts that the Stortinget has made in the management plans. The representative Astrup is right to say that the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea are two different seas. But given the procedure we have seen on the issue of the ice edge, I think it belongs to the discussion we have now. The government proposes a new limit on where the ice edge goes, claiming that the ice edge has moved itself, to quote the Prime Minister, and that the definition of the ice edge is the same as that used in the Barents Sea - Lofoten management plans in 2006 and 2011. But first of all, the edge of the ice has not moved itself. It is likely to have moved for the highest detectable human activity reasons. Secondly, what we in the Storting are doing in the management plans, among other things. establishing a framework for activity and activity, including the petroleum activity. It is a political assessment based on a combination of the respective parties' respect for available knowledge and respect for climate change we are in the middle of. These are assessments for which the batches themselves are responsible. The discussion on whether to drill for oil near the edge of the ice is another question than where the ice is at, and the professional definitions should be provided by professionals. The professional definitions of where the ice is going are also not something that the Storting has treated or should be treated. In April last year, the Norwegian Polar Institute presented the note ‘Ice edge and ice edge zone — production of the ice edge zone as vulnerable area’. There is knowledge of this kind that we should base our discussions and political assessments, and thus make assessments of whether, on the basis of this information, we thought it was proper to conduct petroleum activities. What the government now does instead, is observe that the ice melts in the north, and thus conclude that one must be able to drill for more oil, since the ice has moved itself. Voilà, thus Minister for Oil and Energy Tord Lien can reject the Council of the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Environment Directorate and declare blocks in the Barents Sea as appropriate to the oil industry, while the Minister for Climate and Environment semantically retains his words. This way of moving forward and the uncertainty that I believe the government is creating around the good system we have created for the management of our marine areas, limits to being unprofessional, and creates great uncertainty around a field that we should regulate more, with more emphasis on the best available professional advice – no less. In today's discussion, there is a touching consensus here in the Chamber on the importance of the professional basis and the importance of knowledge. But where are the celebrations when the environmental advice is exceeded in the allocation of search blocks and TFOs time and time again? When it comes to it, the big parties here in this room prioritise oil in front of the environment – every time, no matter how much they say in debates and interpellations that knowledge is important. For example, I'm waiting. The Workers' Party has strong views that professionalism should be at the root of the issue, because the only thing we have heard today is that the Workers' Party has strong views on the issue. Whether or not to listen to professional advice remains an open question. Well, it would be nice if the Workers' Party for the first time attended and said no to the oil industry of the precautionary principle, which the representative Aukrust was so concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3543	The interpellant addresses an important issue relating to the management practices and plans of our three seas. The rolling of the plans is of course important, as it emphasizes all the speakers who have been present so far – especially if one can destroy future generations by avoiding rolling plans. It is quite clear that this government is not looking for a lack of rollover which will destroy the possibilities of the coming generations. We know that the acquisition of knowledge, especially linked to the Lofoten and the West Pole, has been massive, it has been using great resources in that area. The MARANO programme shows how complex the sea – and all ecosystems lying in the sea – is actually. So holistic management plans for all marine areas will then definitely be supported by this government, and there's no reason, as the Minister for Climate and Environment was in it, to believe that this government will not follow the necessary roll-out of plans as the need arises. But it can't be a goal in itself to scroll planes just to scroll them – there must be a goal with it. So to the representative Snorre Vala: when he goes to the pulpit here and criticises and keeps posts on the ice edge and the administration of the Barents Sea east, I would remind the representative that it was he and his government, the government that his party put in, who voted to open these seas. It seems like you've forgotten when you have a lot of posts today, and that's why it seems necessary to remind the representative about it. When it comes to the ice edge and a new assessment, it's strange to right the debate going around the ice - we even gave the Nobel Peace Prize to a vice president who said that the ice would be gone from the North Pole in 2014. Well, the ice is obviously still there, so the predictions that the ice should disappear are probably bad. The government assumes that an administrator of the Barents Sea east on a safe and prudent basis, and I have full confidence that the Minister for Climate and Environment is rolling the plans in line with the needs we have, and in line with the practices that have existed in the past, where knowledge has been the important pillar of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3557	I would also like to thank the interpellant for taking a timely initiative. The overall management plans, as many have pointed out, are a very good idea. The key, then, is that up-to-date — and I focus on ‘updated’ — professional knowledge of the overall resilience of nature is what is to be taken into account when determining which economic activities are allowed in which areas. Unfortunately, there is increasing evidence that this government is using a different logic, the starting point of which is the type of activity you want, and where the protection and knowledge of nature are then adapted to economic considerations. The overall management plan for the Barents Sea was last updated in 2011, several of which have been in progress, and should therefore, according to practice, be updated in 2016. So there's a reason why we roll those plans so frequently, because the knowledge update is relatively fast, and now we're in a situation where the sea is fundamentally changing in these areas and the need for knowledge rollout is increasing dramatically. It's not gonna decrease! Nevertheless, the Council of State chose to pick out a single element of this plan, i.e. the ice edge, and propose its amendment – on the same day as the 23rd concession round was announced by the Minister of Oil and Energy. In this way, the government could release several search blocks without the natural consequences of it being mapped. There is a bad procedure in such an important case, not least by a government that claims to be knowledge-based. It is quite important to note that the same approach has been demonstrated by the Council of State in nature conservation on land. In the Sørdalen nature reserve in the municipality of Bremander, the Senterpartiet and SV went into the previous government in their time to build a power line across a nature reserve, even though other routes were recommended. The State has now been sued for a violation of the Nature Diversity Act, but what is the Council of State's solution to this? Well, instead of pointing the nose at a red-green government that made a very poor choice, she has gone in to change the protection regulation for what is allowed in the nature reserve, and now it is now to be allowed to sank mushrooms, pick berries and build a 420 kilovolt power line through the Sørdalen nature reserve. The Green Party strongly warns against a line in which nature protection is circumvented once the economic interests are strong. Not only has nature self-esteem, the value of nature must necessarily increase in the years that we have ahead of us, and it is more important than ever to take those considerations now – not to build them down. It is good that the interpellant from the Workers' Party takes up the use of knowledge and anchoring in the Stortinget, but it is worth mentioning, as both the representative Valen and the representative Grimstad have been inside, that it was the red-green government itself that opened the Barents Sea south-east. And it was an oil and energy minister from the Central Party who in 2013 changed the definition of the ice edge at a coup – when the definition was changed under the cover of a typing error in the process the day before the proposition was published. The definition changed the distance to the edge of the ice and basically laid the foundation for the problem that is now further developed. I would also like to stress that the knowledge of the Workers' Party seems to have stopped by the fact that too much oil has already been found for us to exploit it, and that it is the oil in the Arctic that should be ahead of something, but it remains to be seen where the Workers' Party lands in that matter. I look forward to the government coming to Stortinget with an update of the debate around the ice edge, but the Greens are concerned about a development in which the government seems to pick out individual elements from the management plan now, while at the same time postponing the complete update to come next year, until 2020. It's quite a long time. If the government is actually going to change the regime with overall management plans, I encourage them to be brave enough to say it clearly now and not continue with tactical small steps that in practice undermine the management plan system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3576	I am a little uncertain whether we have progressed some way beyond this debate, but I believe that at least there is a very significant majority in the Grand Duchy in order to base the further work on the basis that we have had since 2002, where there is knowledge, impact studies and comprehensive analyses that will be the basis for, before taking the final political clarifications relating to the management of our marine areas. Then it is tried through the debate to create uncertainty on different elements. The representative Astrup will test it for the 23rd concession round. If the government relates to what is the opening message related to the 23rd round and the announcement of it, there is no problem, because the Storting has given permission to do so. What I'm concerned about is that we follow those principles. The reason for the interpellation is not about the ice edge, it's about the Norwegian Sea. As regards the 2009 roll-out envisaged by the Stortinget in 2014, the Minister for Climate and Environment, in response to the Stortinget, has, on the basis of a political assessment, disregarded the roll-out considerations of clarifications between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's how I have to read that answer. I must respectfully express my concern if that is how one will continue what is involved in the management plans. For it is a good tool, provided that it is complete, and provided that it also follows the roll-outs and the main revisions provided for for the treatment of the Storting. That must be an indispensable requirement on the part of Stortinget, and I also assume that the Minister for Climate and Environment can guarantee that this will happen. It is not that there are any professional updates that are delayed, or that there are professional updates that should be the basis for that roll, as long as it is the Stortinget that has determined it. The Storting had some questions about more knowledge acquisition and further analysis in relation to rolling, and some of it would have happened in 2014. So it didn't come in 2014, but I hope it will come in 2015. I myself was the case rapporteur for the management plan for the Norwegian Sea. I kind of have a little ownership of what is written there, and I also have a little ownership of it so that it is followed up. I expect it. So let's do that with the edge of the ice. I think it's a little strange that the government chooses to take what we now hear about, as a thematically defined matter to present to the Stortinget. There is no basis for that, but I assume that the knowledge, the analyses and the overall assessment also represent and follow that matter, even though it is thematically limited. If not, there can be a problematic debate in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3591	I would like to repeat one thing I said in my first post, namely that Norway should ‘be a priority country in terms of global and ecosystem-based management of marine areas’, as the Stortinget joined in the treatment of the North Sea Communication in 2011. This is also the government's ambition. The management plans are a concrete expression of the ability and willingness of Norway as a coastal State to take responsibility for the major maritime areas that we manage, and this has been noted internationally. Coastal states have a clear obligation under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea to protect the environment in their marine areas. This is closely linked to the extensive rights of coastal States under the Convention on the Law of the Sea to exploit the living marine resources and other resources on the continental shelf under their jurisdiction. In 2008, the EU adopted a directive aimed at achieving good environmental status in all European seas by 2020, the so-called Marine Strategy Directive. Good environmental status shall be ensured by the development by each Member State of marine strategies for its marine areas. The strategy includes requirements for setting environmental objectives, indicators, monitoring programmes and action programmes. In other words, the Directive largely takes into account the same approach and methodology as the Norwegian management plans. The management plans are a knowledge-based policy tool. The plans are drawing up a long-term perspective on the protection of marine ecosystems and are a key instrument for ensuring Norway’s obligations under international law to protect the environment in our marine areas. At the same time, they facilitate the use of Norway’s right under international law to make sustainable use of resources in our seas. Finally, management plans are a flexible tool by enabling policies to be changed by updating and revising the plans based on new and up-to-date knowledge within an overall framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3602	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3616	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3623	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3631	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Marianne Aasen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by Marianne Aasen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to turn the research effort from petroleum into renewable resources.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3660	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the further escalation of recruitment positions and other research positions until 2024.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3675	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes so that most of its research resources are subject to open competition.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3692	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a high-quality report on quality in higher education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with proposals for action for more research-based education.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a recruitment strategy to ensure less temporary use in the university and higher education sectors, a better gender balance, and better and more targeted and systematic international recruitment.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come to Stortinget as soon as possible with a completed investment plan, stowage arrangements for investments and major maintenance projects of construction in the knowledge sector, as well as an analysis and plan of the sector’s future needs for equipment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3736	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they support in subsidiary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3751	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Sigmund Steinnes, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Left-wing proposal No. 2, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien, on behalf of the Centre Party, First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose to amend the rules of the Training Act so that the requirement of continuous withdrawal of the right to secondary education is lifted in five years’ time.’ The Socialist Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3779	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the impact by amending the rules on the continuous withdrawal of the right to secondary education and to promote this as its own case for the Stortinge.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3814	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2–5, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out national samples as sample samples.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3840	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that no local requirements for monitoring and documentation can be imposed in addition to those required by the regulations of the Training Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3855	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the presentation of the results of the national tests provides more precise and correct information than is the case today’.» The Labour Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3872	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the overall reporting and documentation requirements in schools are reduced.’ The Labour Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3889	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with a case in which the overall surveying system in primary school is reviewed. The case shall include an assessment of whether the current system is structured in a way that ensures efficient time use and reduces red tape, while ensuring national and local school development for the benefit of students’ learning.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3922	During the debate, Rigmor Andersen Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to review up-to-date and research-based knowledge of the health and environmental effects of lead ammunition for hunting and, on that basis, to present to the Storting a matter of framework and regulations for use.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 92 votes were cast against and 8 votes in favour of the proposal by the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 19.56.09]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3938	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3943	Then the vote shall be 93 votes against and 7 votes in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3964	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on I and II. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3979	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on III.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e3993	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Greens' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Marit Arnstad, on behalf of the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 by the Greens. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that government procurement requires the absence of known harmful pollutants in all purchases.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to include a strong escalation of clean-up after historical base and sediment contamination as part of an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4027	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on the most dangerous toxins in products available in Norway, based on the Environment Directorate’s recommendation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure a significant strengthening of the capacity of the Food and Environment Directorate for sampling and supervision on the Norwegian market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4049	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Consumer Council to be strengthened and to use the Swan Marking Scheme as a priority tool to inform consumers about safe, non-toxic products.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose that all products containing harmful chemicals should have a content declaration showing the substances and their quantities contained in the products.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4098	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on III. It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party that are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4114	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on I, II, IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4128	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 by the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘During 2015, the Government asks for calculations to be made of the ratio of the actual loss of sheep to the plentiful game of prey and the number of sheep replaced by the State. Calculations shall be made for all types of rescued wild game.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to convert the predatory loss compensation scheme into a risk-based scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4159	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to amend the provision of compensation in Section 19 of the Nature Diversity Act, so that it becomes equivalent to Section 50 of the Act. This will fully replace owners of predatory breeding areas with grazing and loss of feeding grounds where livestock husbandry needs to be reported or subject to comprehensive preventive measures.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4192	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Green Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left 2 and 3, by Marit Arnstad, on behalf of the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 4–7 and 9–13, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Green Party, the Left Party and the Left Party 27, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 15–26, by Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of the Green and Socialist Left Party The President noted that the proposals No. 8 and 14 from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens, have not been taken up because they are identical to proposals in the draft resolution. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–26, from the Green and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment and the Oil Directorate to impose zero greenhouse gas emissions requirements for the supply of energy to all new oil installations.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the next round of tenders be made to enable all high-speed scheduled vessels to use shore-side electricity.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct all ports of call of Hurtigruten to install shore-side electricity.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to phase in requirements for all cruise ships intended to operate in Norwegian waters to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2018.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government requests that ports be required to receive cruise ships and other major ships to provide shore-side electricity to all.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the turnover of biofuels, including second generation biofuels from wood and residual waste, as well as biogas to 10 pst. from 1 January 2016.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to impose a ban by 2020 on biofuels to be 10 pst. of the total use by the carrier of fuel for domestic flights.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to continue to convert the car charges and to strengthen the emission target from 85 g CO2/km to a target of 9 out of 10 new cars sold in 2020 to be 0-emission cars, and to set the target at 10 g CO2/km.’; Proposal No. 23 sounds: The size asks the government to implement a change in the one-off charge in the energy efficiency direction of vans and heavy-duty vehicles.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the prohibition of any use of fossil oil and gas in district heating plants as soon as possible and no later than 1 January 2018.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the notified energy message, to present a plan to replace fossil energy use in Norway with renewable energy sources.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a cross-sectoral biogas strategy on the basis of the 2014 technical basis with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions by 350000 thousand tonnes by 2020’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4295	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the measures outlined in the Directorate-General for the Environment’s report ‘Professional basis for the further development of national and international climate policies’, and for concrete proposals on how to implement individual actions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4312	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–7 and 9–13, from the Green Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the mandate of the Environment Directorate and the Oil Directorate to go through emission permits, as well as other permits and obligations to the oil industry, as well as to require the best available technologies to reduce emissions and implement energy efficiency where technically possible.’ [[BAT]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to explain how electrification of existing fields can contribute to achieving the climate targets by 2030 and 2050 in the coming Energy Communication.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is requesting PFC emissions permits in industry to be reviewed by the government in order to gradually reduce them towards best practice.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all State vehicles in 2020 should, as a general rule, use zero-emission or climate-neutral fuels.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the setting of environmental requirements for short-haul aeroplanes in the event of a call for tenders.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to phase in more stringent environmental requirements for supply ships operating in Norwegian waters.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the marketing of biofuels to include non-taxable diesel.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests that fossil oil for heating state construction and construction of state rentals, both base load and top load, be phased out by 1 January 2018 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a legislative proposal prohibiting the use of fossil oil and gas as base loads and top loads in district heating plants from 1 January 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4370	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the notified energy notification, to implement the EU Energy Efficiency Directive and to propose energy efficiency objectives and related instruments.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the Energy Communication notified, to promote new, concrete renewable targets for the period 2020-2030-2050 and related instruments.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4392	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Green Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to cooperate with the mainland industry in order to establish an agreement that will, inter alia, ensure that we take out the energy efficiency potential, phase out fossil energy use for heating purposes and provide for the phase-in of biocarbon as an input factor in the process industry or other technologies that similarly reduce process emissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4454	During the debate, Mr Lundtigen has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the priorities of natural management to be strengthened by more than so far the provision of technical advice through the development of a comprehensive plan with concrete proposals for priority species and selected habitat types, based on explicit criteria for the priority of species and the selection of natural habitat types, prior to the further use of these instruments in the Natural Diversity Act.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to strengthen the knowledge base for natural management through the following four actions: 1st@item: inlistbox Work on a comprehensive plan for the monitoring and monitoring of natural diversity in accordance with the conditions set out in the Innst. [[national programme]] S. No 206 and education in the field of natural diversity can be ensured at universities and higher education institutions, in order to safeguard society’s needs for competence in the field.’;» [[research]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4501	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4509	Case No. 10 is the second reading of the law and applies to Law 38. There are no proposals for comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4560	Thus, today's map has been processed. But before we finish the meeting, the president would like to have a few words to say that it's actually today's last time Harald Green, Secretary at the Grand Secretariat, has his working day here at Stortinget. It is with great sadness that we thank him for his efforts on the Grand Duchy for the entire 42 years. Harald Gronn was employed by SV's high school group in 1973, where, after a few years, in 1977, he became the secretary-general. In 1990 he received the position of prime minister, and since 1995 he has been head of the General Secretariat. Few, if any, have the Storting more under the skin than Harald Green. He can put the Storting's Rules of Procedure in and out and deal with it with such authority that there are few who dare to speak up if there are any objections. [[Laughter]] He knows the long lines of this house's history, he has a very special sensitivity to existing constitutional principles, and he is completely familiar with all the rules and regulations, written as well as unwritten, that apply to the activities of a parliament. I'm sure I have the hall with me when I say that Harald Green too many of us have acted as a sort of common mentor. Either he has a seat in the secretary chair here next to me, or he has filled other roles in the Stortinget, Harald Green has stood for professional security, integrity and loyalty. He has always been willing to advise on constitutional issues and has never been unwilling to explain how committee settings should be written. Also the times that have occurred more unpredictable situations here in the hall, he has shown that he has the professional weight to handle this quickly and efficiently. It is a unique career in Stortinget that is now ending. As a member of the Secretariat of the Committee on Budgetary Reform, Harald Green was central to reforming the budgetary procedure in the 1990s. Later, by several crossroads, he has had a very decisive vote against it at all times. For one thing, Harald, you've set a standard, and I'll illustrate that through the following little story. It was a late evening, and I had been at a party meeting in Wågå. It was probably about a quarter of a.m. in the evening, and I got a phone call from a very concerned government council that had been in a lot of trouble here. Questions had been raised about taking questions after the meeting, and there were then some formal questions attached to this. I just have to say that where I sat in a bus pocket in Wågå quarter in the evening, I did not have the Rules of Procedure in a way that made it clear that I could answer that question. So, of course, I'm calling Harald Green: «Good evening, Harald Green. It's quarter past eleven. I have the following questions." It was a little quiet, so I heard that it was shaking in pages, and then I got a good answer. So I say, "Harald, can you just say this?" 'No, I have the Rules of Procedure here,' he says. ‘At eleven o’clock in the evening, do you have the Rules of Procedure?’ 'I always have the Rules of Procedure. ‘This is a standard I think should be for follow-up, also for those who come after. [[Laughter]] I would also say, Harald, that you have also set a standard for what is going on in order to hold a big meeting, which I believe is important in our digitized age. You insist that what is needed to hold a big meeting is a piece of paper, a spring pen, an ink box and a candle. I think it's worth holding on to, even in the next 200 years. It's an institution in Stortinget that we're taking bye with us, and we want you to have a long, good and active retirement life. Then you should not take the train from Larvik at 5:40 a.m. and then be in position here at Stortinget a few hours later. Actually, it should have been the case with secretaries in Stortinget who have been pardoned, that there should have been a decision that they should be allowed to stop. Then my suggestion would be that it should require a majority of the constitution. But when it's not like that, you get to let go anyway. On behalf of the entire Storting and presidency, I will be grateful for the wonderful effort you have made, and wish you all the best for an impending retirement life. Thank you very much. [[Standing applause in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-03.ana.ud2112e4600	If no more people have asked for the floor, the meeting has been cancelled.
