ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e26	The called alternates, for Uppland County Ivar Odnes, and for Rogaland County Svein Abrahamsen, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e44	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e51	During a hearing in the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday's memory leading scientists remind us that common to most refugee flows up through history is that the contemporary has called them extraordinary. We're doing it today, too, and I think it's coverage for the claim. According to the UN, over 60 million people in the world are fleeing. Crisis, war and conflict make the situation worse in many places. The Internet provides millions in war and crisis areas with knowledge of opportunities to live better lives elsewhere. Far from it, people are moving towards Europe, including Norway. The numbers in the refugee stream have turned on all the records, and it can continue. Last month, 218 000 people crossed the Mediterranean Sea, more in a month than the whole of last year. Norway came more in October than assumed for the whole of 2015. Never before has so many come in a week as last week, and it continues this week – not least in the north. In other words, as the government itself says, we don't know what will follow in the weeks that come. We have to be prepared for this to be the new normal. Challenges beyond the ordinary require solutions in addition to the ordinary and ordinary ways of working together. Lasting solutions can only be found through broad and laborious international cooperation. At the same time, we also need cooperation here at home. The Prime Minister has presented the concept of virtue. The Labour Party agrees. It is time to put small battles aside and seek broad cooperation on solutions that work. That is why we agreed to the Prime Minister's invitation from the Parliamentary Chair in October, and the other parties on the Stortinget agreed to the meeting to which the parliamentary leaders of the Right and the Progressive Party have recently been invited. Now we experience a lack of clarity about the willingness to follow up this invitation and the Prime Minister's appeal for diligence. So my question is: does the Prime Minister still believe that a broad consensus is desirable, and what are the main principles of the Prime Minister that the Storting should unite?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e58	It's important to stress that we're in an extraordinary situation. These figures continue to increase in the case of refugee arrivals to Norway. In particular, the numbers are increasing in the north. There is a stream of people coming from conflict areas, but there is also a stream of people who have been safe for a long time and do not come directly from conflict areas. There is an impression that there is some kind of open door to Europe at the moment that makes all migration processes go in one direction. That is why, in my view, it is important that we meet this with extraordinary ability to raise ourselves above party politics and find the right measures. The right measures in this context are to support the work done by the EU internationally, to ensure that the EU actually works, to respect the Schengen borders, and to support the work done by the UN in the area of migration, but we must also be clear in Norway about the actions we need to take. Today, this means that we need to implement both short-term measures and long-term measures. In my view, the short-term measures are essentially catch-up measures. The short-term measures mean actions that clearly inform us that those for whom we are going to have an asylum institution are people who have a need for protection, that we are able to sort the flows that are coming, faster up against it. That means we have to have some clear signals in those areas. The second track, the long-term one, is that those who are allowed to stay get an integration that makes them work faster, that we make clear and clear demands for those who are coming, but also helps them on the way into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e63	I have to interpret this long answer as a yes. There's a lot of work to do. We're ready for that. What can this be about? Well, I see five points. We can seek agreement on the international solutions, the principles of European asylum cooperation. We can seek agreement on measures to improve the functioning of our asylum system in line with the conventions, including the rapid and effective return of those who do not have protection needs. Seek agreement on arrangements for decent reception while preventing Norwegian schemes from appearing more attractive so that they affect the flow of refugees. That together we strengthen the integration work, so that newcomers quickly get into education and work, and not become passive. That we gather about the right and sufficient support to enable municipalities to succeed in settlement, Norwegian training, job-qualified according to the new situation. I hope that the Prime Minister, as head of the government, will help to get those talks going quickly. We have a very demanding November month ahead of us in budgetary negotiations involving four parties, and this invitation that went to eight. I believe that the mood of the four non-parties is that we are ready for such talks, and I hope the Prime Minister will help them get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e86	I think that the five points of action might largely outline the four that I also had when I published our supplementary proposal on Friday. In this way, I do not disagree with the points, but I think I would stress the need for us to say clearly that we are not only talking about return policy, but also about tightening up in some areas if Norway appears to be a country where the residence permits here are more favourable than other countries' residence permits. We like it or not, but there is a development in refugee policy in the other countries that makes us now shift focus, and I have good knowledge in this area of how fast the information goes out, how fast it ages down, and how the attractiveness comes. I believe that the prerequisite for getting to the community that we need in these solutions is that we are open to looking at more temporaryity and at some more intensive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e91	It opens for follow-up questions – first Svein Roald Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e94	The Prime Minister pointed out in his response to the need to support EU action and asylum policy, and she stated in her statement that she would attend the Valletta Summit next week. In the additional number, the government proposes that we participate in the so-called EU relocation mechanism of 1500 over two years, and with the means to develop secure reception capacity in third countries that the EU is working to establish, among others. in Turkey. Perhaps the most serious challenge in European cooperation now is to gain control of the external borders of Schengen – we are in favour of Russia. However, since the EU launched its action package, we have seen a trend that points more towards a gap than the convergence of a common policy among EU countries. How does the Prime Minister now assess the possibilities for a broad EU consensus on the management of the refugee situation, and is there further action Norway can contribute to this work, and what initiatives will the government take towards Russia in order to better control the situation of Storskog?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e101	There were many questions to answer in 1 minute. Let me start by saying that we are actively working towards the EU in relation to the measures we have said to contribute. Clearly, there are great tensions. Some countries face major challenges, others almost do not receive asylum seekers. Some countries think they can go free from the challenge that is now. Nor is there any doubt that this issue is the one that splits most internally in most European countries, and also the one that perhaps splits most in our own political discussion on the road choices for the future in Norway, and has done so over many years. As far as relations with Russia are concerned, we are now working on talks with Russia at border commissioner level. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has raised the question with Minister for Foreign Affairs Lavrov. We assume that everyone is related to the obligations you have, including the Russians in this context. For the moment, we believe that we should try to find solutions through the diplomatic route. [[The President cut off]] But at the same time...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e108	That's it. Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e113	It is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that some of the measures we are now discussing are also divisive for the political debate in Norway. At the same time, the Prime Minister – and that is quite right – says that this is an exceptional situation. That is why I thought it was as good as Prime Minister Erna Solberg said in his statement on 13 October. Then she said, ‘I am sure that the parties at Stortinget are prepared to participate in this work and that we can provide a basis for broad agreement on many of the measures. If there's something in general good about the Nordics, it's good. In the autumn there will be a need for political action.’ The Christian People's Party is ready to participate in a political effort, but I believe that in the situation that is now, it is important that we get a good deal. That's why my question to the Prime Minister is: Is she in agreement that we now need to get a political virtue here in the Stortinge which is as broad as it is possible at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e124	We have to get a wide-ranging effort, but it also has to be an effective effort. It has to go from seminar and discussion to action. A virtue that comes no longer than to the board meeting's discussion of the virtues, will not help in this situation. It presupposes willingness to take effective action. This presupposes a willingness to understand that if it comes to 33 000 – last week’s increase in the number can suggest 40,000 during the fall – and we will do something for, among other things. To sort in the current that comes, who it is that has protection needs, we can, for example: now get clear signals to many of the Afghans crossing the border of Storskog, who have been living in Russia for years, that we can now introduce a faster process for them, a rapid process, which enables us to stop a process that is primarily characterised by a migration from Russia by people who have been there for a long time, and not from a conflict area. It will require that we also have the will not to use all the same judicial security agencies that we have so far had. That's the tough questions we have to ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e129	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e132	The situation we're in now will require a lot of all of us. No one knows how many refugees will come. No one knows how many people will stay. No one knows how many will be returned. What we know is that it is going to take a lot to succeed in both immigration regulation and – not least – integration, and that there is a balance between how many refugees we can accept and what our country can carry. So no matter what measures we take now, the consequences of the choices we make today will be with us for many years and over several majorization periods. We understand that it is very demanding to have government responsibility in such a situation. Our goal when we call for a settlement is to be involved and take responsibility for the choices we have to make jointly. And then my question is: does the Prime Minister agree that a broad settlement will help the government in the difficult work it is set to lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e139	I agree that a broad settlement is absolutely an advantage. I think Norwegian society expects us to rise above the political inequalities on some points and find common solutions that can master this situation sustainably in the future. Then it's important that we talk concretely not only about everything we want on the top shelf of improvements in the system, but about how we actually master the situation as it is. Our challenge now is that we have a record high number of lone minor asylum seekers. We have a record high number of people who are going to get protection and stay. But in between we also have to be tougher about some groups and say that these do not have a real need for protection. We have to get faster in return. We have to dry up the grips, and we have to talk about how we can get faster and better integration. But we need to take more action to deal with the current influx itself, and it's not just people coming from conflict zones that are coming now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e146	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e149	The left is prepared to join a broad settlement. The left is prepared to add things to the side that we've fought for before, but also put good ideas on the table. We think it's good for the Norwegian debate, we think it's good for the level of conflict in a society, to be able to meet when there are major challenges. It has been a tradition for this Parliament ever since the Left was founded – that we make a broad political compromise when faced with major challenges. This is what we think is such a big challenge, and then we have to be able to meet each other with open vision and ready to come up with good ideas on the table. I hope the Prime Minister agrees that this is a challenge that is so great that it calls for the broad compromises that the Norwegian giant has the tradition of having.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e154	I fully agree that broad compromises are good, and I am absolutely sure that there are many good thoughts and ideas about how we can do both asylum processes and others better in the years to come. But it also requires – I would like to say – relative speed in the decisions, speed in the investigation. Should we take firm action, for example: – We have announced that we will make some changes to the Foreign Affairs Act – we must do this in a faster way than we have done before, if it is to have an effect. I am recording that staging parties have previously talked about more temporaryity, which we also announce that we will come back to. We also have to make sure that we ignore some of our long investigation processes and get decisions, including law decisions, faster than before. If we are willing to do so in the political debate now, I think we will have a good time in the future. When I spend some time stressing this, it's because we need a different pace from what we've usually had in Norwegian politics, in response to the crisis we're facing now. If not, this will be invincible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e159	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e162	This situation requires good management and some points pointing forward. Yesterday, at the hearing of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it became fairly clear that the experts felt that there would be no good solutions at European level but that the UN had to be used in addition. That's one starting point. But if we're going to go to the very specific things in Norway, SV has a number of very specific arrangements that we want to put on the table. One is that those who are entitled to protection must be given prompt treatment. We know who they are. Today they're over a year waiting. Afterwards they spend many years in expensive reception where they get sick and unable to cope afterwards. There can be a new settlement arrangement in which the municipalities, which are responsible today, receive instead all these billions that are now coming to reception, so that they can get started on integration very quickly. And there is a need for more Norwegian training, not less, as the government suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e167	In the ideal world, we would say that those we know who are, and who have a right to protection, should receive prompt treatment. But the situation is that very many of those who come, at least those who don't get over Storskog, today don't have identity papers with them. It takes a very long time to make sure that an acid is a acid. It takes a long time to show where you're from. It takes a long time to document. And it's black market sales a lot of these types of documents today, so the challenges are there. In addition, if we are to have control of the influx of asylum, it is most important to give priority to those to be returned, as it is when we send the signal that it is not appropriate to go to Norway and seek asylum if there is no need for protection. There are some dilemmas in these choices, and we've chosen to say that it's important to make the rejections the fastest, because the rejections are what makes us more able to deal with the inflow. Yes, it is important to increase capacity overall, but it is now important to ensure that we preserve the asylum institution. I believe Europe is facing – if we do not manage this – the biggest crisis associated with the entire refugee convention and the asylum institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e172	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e176	The Prime Minister has already said that this is an extraordinary situation for our country. It's a demanding task. I would also like to say that the good job that the Prime Minister is doing is being noticed. What the Prime Minister also says here today is that it is urgent. We see that UDI works both night and day – and weekends. The signal will be – I think – that the Storting is set to do the same thing. The Christian People's Party is even willing to use Sunday, because this is demanding. We see that the state is doing a lot. We've seen that local authorities do a lot. And the government has now put forward a lot of measures in the reception system – in the exceptional situation we now see. But there's one area where I think we have a very resource that we can use even more than the government has done in its supplementary number. It applies to voluntary activities. I see the government's intentions, that we should use them, but there are no concrete measures to follow up on this. Volunteering in Norway says that they are ready to make an extraordinary effort in the current situation, but of course coordination is needed; there is a need for concrete action. The Prime Minister challenges family members to be foster families. Maybe we could challenge some of these organizations to have an action to just secure foster families in the situation we're in now? My question to the Prime Minister is, is she, in this situation, willing to discuss how we can now get on with volunteering, really?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e187	Yeah, we're willing to do it. I admit that for those in the UDI and in the reception system who try to build up enough capacity every day – make sure that we have enough reception, and make sure that people have a hold on their heads – it's hard to think about all the other things. That's why other departments are working on this. On a proposal from the government, the Storting decided to grant money to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, among others. creating a portal for all voluntary work in this sector, so that people who want to volunteer can register with both these organisations and others. Then we can be more systematic in the way we drag the organisations into the work. It's most natural to do it in the ordinary receptions, where people are going to be for a while. Now a lot of people have been in the emergency room. There will be single tasks such as: The Red Cross and other organisations contribute, but in the next round there could be more of this. That is why we are concerned that we should be able to cooperate more with volunteering, and look at how, not least in the ordinary reception structure, we can fit in more activity related to this. But much has to be done at local level. It is often about the reception management and the local organisations. That's why we've thought that this portal is a good way to do this, because then you can see what you can do locally, what you need. In addition to foster families, which are difficult now to get through – I get letters from people who are not approved as foster families, for obvious reasons, but who want to make a contribution – there are forget, support contacts and many other jobs that it is possible to do to help not least the many lone minors who have arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e200	I understand that in the current situation there are many tasks, and that there are some etats and departments that are heavily under pressure. The paradox is that in that situation there are tens of thousands who are ready to make an effort. How do we mobilise that effort? That's where I think volunteering is the key. Both in reception and in reception, as the Prime Minister mentioned here specifically, and not least among the many who really need protection and who are going to be, volunteering would be the most important single element to ensure good integration. I think we should not only think about the national, but also locally, as the Prime Minister says. But then maybe the local authorities really need to have a chance to use the device that volunteering is. For the Christian People's Party, I just want to say that when we're willing to work hard now, this element will also be important, because we believe that it can also help relieve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e205	I fully agree that there is a great potential in volunteering, and that volunteering can help organize and facilitate very many of the activities that are taking place. We have now started a work, including: in the case of asylum reception and other matters, where three state councils will invite the KS to meet to discuss the work with the municipalities in terms of both information and establishment, and then it will be natural to discuss how to involve the volunteer more closely in the work that is taking place. In the integration message we have announced, one of the themes is also integration reception. We've recognized that people are staying in reception for a long time. In such a role, it will also be quite natural that volunteering works a lot more closely against the integration recipients, in preparation to become acquainted with the Norwegian community. I would like to stress that volunteering is already making a huge effort today. There are many non-governmental organisations and individuals who set up both Norwegian training and children’s and youth activities, and we need more of all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e214	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e217	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer and fully share her view of volunteering and the important role it has in society. I think there's also an ideological common denominator here, that's the idea of building society from below, of investing in a supplement to the public, and not least the value of people caring about each other without getting paid for it. Voluntary activities are important both in Norway and outside Norway in order to avoid the arrival of refugees. That's why I was a little surprised when the additional number, which is about the recovery of the costs of refugees, came, and a disproportionate cut in the aid that goes through non-governmental organisations, while other channels, whether it's state-to-state aid or through multinational organisations like the United Nations and the World Bank, don't get that big cut. That is precisely the kind of assistance that reaches the people out there, assistance that is safe, for example. the school or health services where you have corrupt leaders or governments who do not do their job. My question is, what is the reason why a kutter in the assistance of volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e224	It's a challenge when we get $9.5 billion. kr to be entered in a budget after we have submitted a budget. We chose to increase the aid budget, but also to take a share of the aid budget to cover refugee expenditure, in line with the approved OECD Development Committee (DAC) arrangements, which all other countries do in this situation. Sweden is soon – if the agreements concluded between the batches there are implemented – up to 50 pst. of our assistance. When you have to do this in such a short time, you'll see where there is room to make changes, how do you have binding agreements on contributions that you have to make, and where do you have room to do other things? It's not just the post that goes to volunteer. Within very many other posts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, non-governmental organisations work in this sector, for example: within the training effort. In a number of other areas, non-governmental organisations are also receiving money from these items. It's not just from this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e231	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e234	On Monday 174 asylum seekers came over Storskog. According to the police, 196 asylum seekers came over Storskog yesterday. The situation on Storskog, the Norwegian-Russian border, seems very unpredictable. If yesterday's number is going to be the normal number, it's going to be about. 6 000 asylum seekers over Storskog in one month. There's a large number that gives rise to great challenges. My question is, what is the government and Prime Minister's strategy to deal with the situation we are now looking at at the Norwegian-Russian border?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e241	I look with great concern at the situation we have experienced in Storskog. Those who come have slightly different backgrounds. Some people are coming straight from conflict zones, but they're currently looking to be in the minority of those coming. Many of those who come have been in Russia for a long time and have actually had a form of residence permit there. That's why we work primarily along the diplomatic trail. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has addressed this issue with Minister for Foreign Affairs Lavrov. We are waiting for feedback on some of the questions we have had. The second thing we do is we have conversations with the border commission, the border commissioner on the other hand, about the practice and other things. With regard to the rumor that might exist, that it is now easy to stay in Norway, and that people who have had a long stay in Russia are moving towards Norway, we are also looking into whether we can take action to stop it. The most important thing is to return someone to Kabul.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e248	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e252	The question of the situation in Storskog posed by the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, opens up a concern that is slightly outside the fact that many people are coming to Norway right now, namely geopolitical. What's going on? Is it a country that uses the flow of refugees to achieve political strength to its own country, or can they have other political agendas? It is a very small part of the Norwegian debate, and it is clear that there are many geopolitical interests that can use the flow of refugees to achieve their goals. I expect the Prime Minister to see that this is what is happening in Storskog, but it is clear that we need high-level dialogue between countries to find solutions – long-term solutions – both through peacemaking and through dialogue with the countries concerned. Is the Prime Minister prepared to be active in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e257	There is no doubt that some countries can use the situation that arises with many refugees in motion to achieve different political things. There is no doubt that European leaders who have looked at Turkey and have had negotiations with Turkey feel that there may have been a little less control here at the time that has contributed to even greater influxes. I'm not prepared to give any idea of why so many people are from Russia right now. This is what we are in dialogue with the Russians about – in terms of what limitations. It may have to do with internal relations in Russia, the economic situation makes migrants – who have been there for a long time – at present have a more difficult situation and do not want to return to their own country, and therefore choose a different route. But we must not be naive and believe that this is not a geopolitical matter. It's about many countries. There are countries that also export their inhabitants under repressive regimes to receive income back to the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e264	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e267	It is precisely because, as the Prime Minister has just said, the situation in many countries is such that they use their own people in a political game, that there is criticism of the government in terms of cuts to strengthen civil society and strengthen areas of the world where there is poor governance, and where the civilian population is struggling. That's why the criticism gets so strong, that we see that it's this image that makes very many people spend time on escape, and some of these that spend time on escape are children. The Prime Minister is concerned about hard work, but cuts for those who are going to help us with this, and invites us, as well as for a further effort, also around these children. My question is: does the Prime Minister think that there is a difference between our children and these children, or should we take care of them at the same level as with our own children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e274	There is no difference between Norwegian children and other children. All children in Norway are subject to child protection legislation and if they are in situations where child protection measures are needed, they shall receive child protection measures. But I know that the question you are really asking now is: Should all lone minor asylum seekers – EMA – be treated as children's protection? And then my answer is: No, they should not, because all single minor asylum seekers who come do not have the same background or are in the same situation as the children's protection takes care of and places in a child protection institution. The child protection institutions we have for children, and in particular the youngest children, are aimed at children who are often ill, who are injured and who have serious challenges. Children under the age of 12 in child protection in Norway should not actually be in an institution. They're supposed to be in a family situation. Therefore, the comparison between the lone minors who come here, including the youngest, and a child who is taking care of an institution in Norway, is not a correct comparison. We should therefore look at differentiated offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e279	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e282	There is no doubt that Norway will succeed in this major task — in this acute situation, but not least in the long run — and succeed in a good integration, so volunteering is key. And volunteering is ready – many thousands are now waiting to contribute and offer their help and want to contribute to this well done locally. We also know that small funds can trigger great efforts. I was therefore expecting the additional proposition to be put forward, in terms of the steps that can be taken to strengthen volunteering and trigger the good forces locally. But despite this, we do not see any trace of any promise for the volunteering of the additional proposition that the government presented. Does the Prime Minister realize that this is also about money for volunteering if we are to succeed in the ambitions we have, and is the Prime Minister willing to discuss the possibility of increased appropriations for this when we are going to negotiate a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e289	Within this budget, there is a huge amount of money. Part of the voluntary work will be cooperation between reception and others; there will be spaces within some of these posts to establish this type of cooperation. But it's like in the first supplementary proposition that Stortinget got presented, it was set up to create a website to gather all the resources so that people could know better, and where we have a better overview of all the volunteer resources. IMDI is working on establishing that kind of overview, so it is not correct that there is no funding for stimulating voluntary work. But I think in the situation we're in now, we have to learn that we can't just have extra money. We also have to spend the money we have in a better way. We need to convert some of the money we already spend in the public system towards measures that can contribute here. After all, this government has put a massive effort into volunteering, increasing contributions. The sport has received more money, a large part of the volunteer experience a better financial environment. Then they also have to be on duty without always getting an extra bet on the state budget for anything extra you do. In this task we must also turn to work effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e300	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e303	Then there will be a change of theme. My question is about education. In Norway, higher education institutions and universities are mainly publicly owned and financed, and it ensures that students across the country can take higher education without becoming a major financial burden. In addition to public schools, we also have private colleges. These schools can take school money, and they also receive state aid. A broad majority of the Stortinget have adopted a ban on the right of the owners of these schools to benefit from private schools. The objective is clear: both school money and state aid should benefit students and schools. Therefore, as stated in the Law on Higher Education, one may not take ‘economic dividends or otherwise transfer profits to the owner or its related person’. Anthon B Nilsen is a private school group that houses a number of commercial colleges. For several years, they have skillfully circumvented the ban on dividends. Through internal transactions, reorganisations and, in the autumn of 2013, a larger merger, millions of dollars have benefited private owners, rather than students and school offerings. The merger of several schools in the autumn of 2013 alone resulted in a win of 100 million. kr. Rectors were critical, and one of them also expressed the objective quite clearly: «In the owner’s perspective, the aggregation is perceived to be financially motivated to realise intrinsic financial values.» Thus, through this merger, one circumvented the dividend prohibition and acted clearly contrary to the purpose of the prohibition. What is the government's view that the owners in this way are draining the schools for money that should have been spent on school services and students?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e317	I want to start by saying that I think it is good that today's industry has put a critical light on how the state follows up the private universities that receive state subsidies. We are concerned that the law should be followed, and we are concerned that we are also seen in the cards on it. It is also important to follow the rules on dividends. So we need a critical press that goes into the seams and contributes to it both to the government and to the private colleges. But then I would also like to say that the Ministry of Knowledge does not yet have the basis to conclude that something illegal has happened. This is still a matter for consideration. Concluding it without the treatment being completed will then be difficult for a prime minister to stand and do from the Parliament's pulpit. The Ministry shall have all the facts on the table in this case. They have asked for further presentations from the group and the college. It is correct that the Ministry of Knowledge might have asked more questions earlier, but the matter has never been resolved. The accounts for 2014 were received by the Ministry in the summer and the follow-up to the accounts for 2014 is the basis for the conclusions to be drawn by the Ministry. If it turns out that money has gone to illegal dividends, they should be demanded back. This has been done in the past for schools that are approved under the old private school law, and we are still going to be very strict on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e327	What is important is that a tight interpretation of the dividend rules will allow for an abundance of opportunities to circumvent or otherwise contravene the purpose of the dividend prohibition law. There is no doubt that before 2013, these schools had good equity, but today it is the case that each school is indebted to its mother group and that for years to come, they are likely to have to serve a debt that requires them to use either the school money or the State aid to serve the debt. This is contrary to the purpose of the dividend ban – there is absolutely no doubt about it. So this isn't the first curve jump from this group; it's happened over a long time. The National Audit Office pointed out in 2013 that this is very worrying. They have also requested — and the Ministry has confirmed it to be — a separate review and review of this group. It happened about the same time as the Right Party and the Advance Party entered the government offices, and afterwards it became completely silent. So the question is, why was such a particular follow-up never carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e334	The Ministry of Knowledge admits that they could have asked more questions in the past and followed up more closely on the matter, but it is therefore the report for the financial year 2014 that is now the basis for follow-up, and for my part I can say that I do not think it should be joint judgment now. Although I think it is good that today's business has made a case, there is something about the legal security mechanisms and the guarantees of legal certainty in our society that means that we do not pass judgment until we have completed the investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e339	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e342	It is not just the centre party that reacts to the bypass of the code and to the taken hold that is from the department's side. The right-wing educational spokeswoman, Kristin Vinje, also says to DN on Monday 2 November that we cannot have a code that is unclear and that makes it possible to find dirt. If that's the case, we have to close the plot. What will the government do to close the open-ended condoms for owners who want to make themselves rich in state aid and private skylights?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e347	I think the government should be allowed to draw conclusions when we have gone through and seen if there have been illegal acts, and then look more at the follow-up to the law. If there are holes that you think are legal, but that we don't like, we have to regulate it. If it is illegal, it is actually not a hole in the law; then it is an illegal act, and then they have to repay the money. There's clearly a bit of a curfew about the other issues. But if it turns out that money has been taken out and transactions have been made that are in the grey zone, then of course we have to look at whether we accept that it should be possible to operate in those grey zones, and close to. However, concluding in a case that is currently under review is too early. I say once again: I think it is a little difficult to expect us to take judgment from the Stortings pulpit on matters that are still under investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e352	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e355	The government has opened up several private actors in Norwegian education, and it is probably reasonably naive to think that there will be no more such cases. As early as 2013, the Riksrevision pointed out that the control of private institutions was inadequate. The current political leadership in the department said they were positive for scrutiny, and a group of experts was set up. Since then little or nothing has happened. The Minister of Knowledge stated to Today’s Business on 31 October that he believes that the ‘control was ensured through the ordinary follow-up of the private schools’ – a practice that was thus stamped as deficient as early as 2013. When the government thinks the system is good enough, it's probably in company only with itself and the brothers Lionshield. Does the Prime Minister think that the government has been equally concerned about preventing abuse as it has been about releasing more private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e364	Like a majority in the UK, we are concerned that we should have a good and wide range of educational institutions in Norway, and there are many creative ideas about good educational pathways and ways of running education and knowledge development, which are not just within the public system. That is why we are and have opened up more alternative schools than the previous government did, which were more concerned with the A4 solutions and the main focus of the public sector on it. We think that our students and children deserve the best, and we think that the ideas can be well distributed around. We have rules to take care of. We are working on the follow-up of the expert group, which presented its report in December 2014. The measures proposed are being worked in the ministry, and we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e371	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e374	In the media, it has recently been a discussion of political correctness and goodness rule. I think, for my part, that the biggest problem we have is that the shitbags get away too cheap. So, by means of frenzied financial manoeuvres, Westerdals has been able to equip themselves with a sky-high rent that makes elephants and taxpayers pay thousands of dollars every day in private pockets. On the text line I got to the right that this year it will be increased by NOK 5000, to NOK 39 950 per student, which they will have to pay off their own pocket. In this situation, it's in place to start looking a little bit, see if there might be a problem elsewhere as well. Therefore, SV has a proposal for treatment in Stortinget now, which reads: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to assess the extent of the benefits of publicly funded welfare services and to propose measures to ensure that public funds allocated to welfare services go to that end in their entirety’. Why is this so problematic for the Prime Minister to support?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e388	The President would point out that 'thirds bags' are not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e392	We are now working on the follow-up of the expert group set up by the red-green government in October 2013. It has looked at and investigated the legislation relating to colleges and colleges. I think maybe we're going to finish the previous sample before we bring down new samples. In the case of schools, we've been very clear that we're not going to make any dividends. For kindergartens e.g. we have said that it has been absolutely necessary to bring about the kindergarten reform we have, with full kindergarten coverage, in order to get private people to be willing to invest. So this is a sector where we've needed it privately. There are a lot of sectors where we're going to need it privately when it comes to lifting important tasks in the future. The starting point for SV seems to be that it is more important for the public to operate than for the services to come. We have the opposite starting point; the most important thing is that the services come, and that they become good qualitative. It's a little bit less important just who's driving them. But in the case of school, which is a basic function, we've been clear that here it's a public wide range offer, so here it's going to be a dividend ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e399	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e402	In three weeks' time, climate negotiations will begin in Paris. In a little over a month, hopefully there'll be a climate agreement in place. A central part of these negotiations will be funding and climate action in poor countries. From the negotiations in Copenhagen in 2009, there is an obligation to increase climate action by 100 billion. dollar towards 2020, internationally combined. It is a prerequisite that the increased aid should be added to the rich country already providing and contributing to it. In the government's draft budget for 2016 and in the supplementary number, there is a significant downsizing of Norwegian efforts. Support for sustainable development, environmental action, is reduced by 250 million. kr. In this sum, climate adaptation, water resource management and also work against international environmental crime are located. There is a reduction in rainforest bet of 380 million. kr and a total reduction in renewable energy support in poor countries of 820 million. NOK – a total of SEK 1.4 billion. kr. Last year, at the inauguration of the climate negotiations in Lima, the four parties on the civil side agreed to increase the contribution of the green fund by 200 million. NOK, which was well received in the negotiations and made a positive contribution. Now the government has added up to a strong reduction. Then my question becomes: Is this downsizing, in the opinion of the Prime Minister, a good contribution from Norway to reaching an agreement in Paris?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e413	At the beginning of October, the government provided a budget that reflected how the government wanted to dispose of the money – prior to the exceptional situation of refugees. It had somewhat less to some of the climate measures, and in line with what has been expressed by several parties in debates in the past, we have spent more money on humanitarian aid because we know that we are in a special humanitarian situation. It is clear that it is not a wishful dream for this government to have carried out these cuts. But we have said that, in the context of assistance, we must also have first-year assistance for refugees in Norway – that is also aid. It is aid to Syrian refugees, whether they are in Syria or neighbouring countries or whether they are in Norway – the first year. I would have wanted a better starting point in some of these areas. But we have made the clear choice that we have reduced in the short term in some of the areas. That doesn't mean we're lowering the ambitions of the forest operation. We are still negotiating a renewed agreement with Brazil to continue the agreement that actually expires this year. We are committed to meeting our commitments in the future in the other agreements as the results come, but we have to push on some payments as a consequence of this. It is not that we can face a situation where so many are coming – and there may be even more expenditure than what has been put in now – without going beyond some areas and shifting some ambitions. In the international world, this is something that everyone now sees. This is happening to everyone, and perhaps this is something that will contribute to the fact that the UN too will have a more active role in the work on migration change, that they see that the great migration stops our ability to find simple solutions with more money to other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e424	We are in an exceptional situation, but I would also argue that the climate challenge itself and the need to reach an agreement are an extraordinary situation. When we look at the proposals of the government, among others: in renewable energy, up to a reduction of 80 pst in two years. It's clear that we have to join in and contribute to now reaching an agreement against Paris. Both we and the rest of the world have to manage two crises at once. Yes, it's an extraordinary situation, but it's also extraordinary that we have to get an agreement in place. Then my question is: does the Prime Minister think, at least ideally, that the efforts we are making on climate action into the final budget to be adopted should also be an increase in relation to what was last year, also as a contribution to the climate negotiations in Paris?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e433	The negotiations on the budget must take the four parties into their own room and not from the pulpit of the Stortinge. I believe that there is reason to look at some of the arrangements made during the renewable action. Not all things have been done there, which are equally focused on what you want to achieve in Paris, among other things. climate finance for the other countries. But, as I said, our original budget is the budget we wanted to go for and get adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e440	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e443	A Norwegian state budget is $1,250. kr. Then we can fix more than one thing. According to the climate agreement, which we are going to follow up, we are going to cut 2 million tonnes every year until 2020. But also in the state budget that the government put forward before they presented this for the refugee crisis, as they had all the money they don't have now, the prediction showed that there wasn't going to be any cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. So my input to the Prime Minister, which can be a good start, without us taking the negotiations in advance, is that we need to make significant improvements in order to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and that must be the result of the budget negotiations that are taking place in Stortinget right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e452	I am concerned that we will make considerable efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future. Some of the biggest will be getting a cleaner transport sector. There are several measures that we have taken, but it takes time because there are large investments. When, for example, In fact, it provides for the planning of the Fornebuban in this budget, by doing something the State has not done before, but under this government for the first time, it contributes to the planning of collective solutions in the big cities, among other things. because it will contribute to less traffic and more people travelling collectively, thus contributing to the large emission picture. When we invest in climate-friendly shipping, in technology, when we advertised very early, in order for people to adapt, namely that we would make sure that we have special opportunities to invest in shipping in the years to come related to this, by transferring the tax money directly into a fund, it also helps us to get less emissions. But it's going to take some time to make all the technology work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e459	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e462	On October 18th, the Norwegian people went to the rainforest to collect almost 200 million. kr. I think the Prime Minister gave good opinions on how important it is to take care of the rainforest. That is why the surprise was great when the government cut almost 400 million last Friday. kr, i.e. almost twice as much. This is what is noted internationally, and it does not help the climate minister to say that the principle of 3 billion is supported. kr, because the rainforest is not saved by principles of money, it is saved by what we actually grant. Then the Prime Minister refers to a special situation. The problem is that it can be done by all the heads of state in the world, and almost everyone can point to more challenges than we can here in Norway. If we follow the government's argument, it will mean great international cuts. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether she will be satisfied with an outcome in Paris that provides significant international cuts in the international climate contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e468	No, I'm not satisfied with a result in Paris that contributes to more cutting funding. I believe that Norway should contribute to that financing in the future. But that's how it's not going to be what we can give the highest priority in the 2016 budget. When it comes to logging, we're going to carry out all the commitments, we're going to pay out what's earned, and this money is going to be in line with that. If we get other results than what we're seeing right now, we might have to shift some of the payments a little bit, but we're not going to go beyond a single deal. It's not like that in 2008, when the red-green government was running a climate deal, when we said we were going to spend 3 billion. kr every year, that it was spent 3 billion. kr every year – that was actually the exception. We say we should meet all the obligations we have as long as this item is not more reduced than it is. But it could be that if we get extraordinarily better results on a couple of projects, it means a little too late payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e473	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e476	One of the ambitions of Norway in front of the Paris climate summit is to increase the financial contribution to halt the damage caused by rainforests. Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft was last week in London and said that Norway is ready to increase its appropriations beyond 3 billion. kr if other countries also contribute. The next day, the government proposes to cut the appropriations for the rainforest by 378 million. kr. Where is our credibility? Does the Prime Minister think it will be easier or more difficult to get other countries to contribute after the government has proposed to cut the appropriations for the rainforest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e481	This cut is not going to mean anything to Norwegian credibility in terms of forest. Since we made a climate agreement, after the Christian People's Party, Left and Right asked for 3 billion. Norway has been at the forefront of forest conservation, emission reductions and dietary reductions. We're going to keep this on the front line. If we get exceptionally good results with some of the new agreements we have, it will mean that we have a little shift in payments. Otherwise, with this framework, we will meet all our obligations. Just the example of Norway, which shows us to be among the most ambitious in the case of rainforests, has contributed to other countries now contributing — it contributes to the United Kingdom’s contribution, it contributes to Germany’s contribution. I can guarantee one thing: this is not going to feel anything different than that Norway is still in charge of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e486	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e489	We must agree that it is not a very good signal that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment one day is in a debate and says that the bet will be increased, and the next day proposes a significant cut. We hope that it has no influence on the issue in the negotiations in Paris, and there is also every reason to hope that we will have an agreement in Paris that makes sense both internationally and in terms of the follow-up in each country. Here in Stortinget, I hope that we will have a follow-up on national climate targets in the current ageing period. Major cities will become important – public transport, renewable energy and waste – and not least the municipal sector. In fact, my question is not about money, but simply about how the prime minister looks at the municipal sector in the climate change sector, because the local government sector meets a very sectoral state, different parts of the state that require different things, and that makes quite different expectations for the local government sector. How will the government be able to use the local government in a sensible way in the context of climate follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e496	It is true – and it is not just in this area – that the municipal sector meets a sectored country. It's a challenge. I tend to say that where the state can always limit its responsibilities, it ends up getting the municipalities responsible for what has been restricted away, because all the problems the state will not take care of. In the area of municipalities, several measures are important in terms of climate, but one that may appear to be general, and there is traffic. The main issue is collective issues and a solution to traffic challenges where cooperation between the State and the municipality is important. For this reason, there is also a strong commitment to public transport and the environment — our climate obligations — as a guide to the input that each department will provide to the national transport plan, which is important in the national transport plan. Perhaps the most important cooperation platform for the major actions, where municipalities have a lot to say, is in fact within urban environmental agreements and other for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e503	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e506	What we've seen in the last few days is something far more than just cut aid and climate finance from the government. There is an overall shift in Norwegian foreign policy and in Norway’s way of dealing with the world. Within a few days, we have seen the government cut materially and deeply into the long-term aid to the world's poor, and especially in civil society aid, which we know is well evaluated and one of the most effective. At the same time, Norway has been a driving force to set new sustainability targets. But Erna Solberg makes Norway the largest beneficiary of Norwegian aid. At the same time, 1.4 billion were cut. kr in climate finance – just before the Paris climate summit, where the key issue of progress can be climate funding to countries in the south. Last night we saw Norway switching courses on the question of nuclear weapons, from being a propellant of disarmament to a country that dares not mean anything other than what the United States thinks. In sum, we see a less cohesive Norway, a Norway that will no longer be a propellor, but is the one that's heading for the world. I think it's a dramatic turnaround. So the Prime Minister justifies these conversions with the refugee situation, and she does so a few weeks after she made a state budget imprinted by homeless money spending on the government's heart cause, which is tax havens in Norway. The truth is that it is not cut in the climate and aid to afford refugees, but to afford Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen's taxes. Why is lower taxes in Norway more important than aid projects that can provide poor children with education, poor farmers with food on the table and poor countries... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e517	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e520	It is important to see that Norway has some more challenges than the refugee crisis, and they are actually very well connected with the solutions. The biggest challenge we have now is to make sure that unemployment does not increase, that it does not establish that we are helping to create new jobs in the transition we are in. The transformation we're in now requires that we get more jobs in the competitive sector for the future. That's the big conversion picture. The important thing to do now is to make sure that we have more revenue sources than oil in the future, because it's going to be less of the revenue from the oil. A party like SV, which has worked so much against the oil sector every year, should be happy that we stimulate other types of jobs. That is why the government is committed to research and development, and that is why we have had a new shift in this area, in education, research and innovation, since SV left the Ministry of Knowledge. We're increasing, we're betting for the future. That is why we are placing enormous amounts of money on transport, to reduce costs, to improve climate solutions in Norway, but also to ensure that costs for Norwegian businesses are reduced. Then we also insist that we invest in the companies that will create jobs in the future. We are now presenting a tax reform in which we are reducing corporate tax, and that is the great tax treatment contained in this budget. In that tax treatment, we make it more interesting to invest in Norway, we make it easier to be left with capital for further investments in enterprises. All research shows that this will have a multiplier effect, which is necessary to create future jobs in Norway. It is important to remember that Norway also has some challenges in the future. It's not homeless use of money. In fact, it is to bet on the future of Norway, to bet that our children have jobs that are safe, and can live in a welfare society that is perceived as good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e532	There was no answer to why the transition the Prime Minister is now describing is more important than the transformation that is about shifting the world away from global poverty and global climate change. But let me actually come back to the rainforest, because I think the Prime Minister's explanation of the rainforest cuts is very special and spectacular. The rain forest fund said, after the TV action collected 182 million. SEK for the rainforest and the government cut 380 million. kr: «This undermines our confidence in the government in this field. What they're doing is contrary to what they're saying." The Prime Minister himself was a gay bearer, without telling me that the government's real plan was to give less to the rainforest and no more. Therefore, I wonder why she didn't say anything about it, and whether she wants to apologize to some of them that she asked to contribute, when her actual plan was to give less for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e544	We pay for results. We've made agreements, we're going to maintain all of those commitments. That means, as I've said several times, that we don't go down on a single obligation. I want to remind the representative that he has been in a government that did not use 3 billion. kr every year, even if you had a deal in Stortingen about it, because the results were not there, because the agreements were not clear. Even if we have 3 billion. Now, it's completely possible to get the exact same results. We have strong ambitions that we will continue to do this work. When we get to Paris, we're going to talk a lot about the measures that are going to come from 2020 to 2030. We believe that we should have ambitious measures. We hope that we have managed the refugee situation in a way that enables us to do more in the sustainability areas in the future. But if we don't handle it, we're going to eat up even more of our opportunities to do the long-term things. That's why we have to deal with it now. I note that SV does not like that we point out that in the future in Norway private jobs will have to be created if the well-being is to be saved. I guess that's also what we can read from their programs... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e551	That's it. It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e556	I was a little surprised by the answer to the Prime Minister, who said – if I think it's right – that we're going to uphold our obligations. We are not going to cancel any appointments that have already been entered into. The additional number explicitly states that the government is to conclude concluded agreements, but it does not state which agreements it is. If that's what's in the text, and not what's coming from the Prime Minister's mouth, that means that one not only has to have a planned phase-out, but one should finish the project already in progress. Then the question is, what is this project about? Do you want to terminate a project such as this? Save the Children's project that secures 600,000 children's schooling in 15 countries, cancel the Development Fund's contracts in Ethiopia and Malawi, where more households will secure food security, interrupt Norwegian Folkehelp's cooperation with peasant organizations in Mozambique or cancel a cooperation project in Zambia where the goal is to get more girls in education and reduce HIV infection and child mortality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e561	I answered a question about the rainforest. Then I said that we are not going to cancel agreements. It is clear that cutbacks in the work of non-governmental organisations will mean that some of the projects will no longer be funded. It is not possible to make such major changes without it meaning anything, but on the rainforest side, which was what I answered questions about, is that we are not going to cancel agreements we have entered into.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e566	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e569	Many of the major democratic reforms we have seen in the world originate from civil organisations. One example is the Quartet for National Dialogue in Tunisia, which will soon be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize this year. The Quarter of National Dialogue showed how such actors can contribute to positive social developments and major changes. The voluntary organisations are subject to much more stringent controls in terms of efficiency, performance achievement and corruption protection compared to, for example, multilateral organisations. Norwegian assistance to civil society organisations is well documented and well evaluated. Last year, a joint committee said that civil society in developing countries should be strengthened. Why the government should cut 66 pst. in support of civil society? Is there any basis for this large cut, and will one in this area also maintain all commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e576	There will be commitments we will not implement or phase out, or we will not enter into new contracts on the basis of the cuts and conversions made within the assistance. One of the reasons we've chosen those changes is that we want to look at where we have obligations that are fundamental and long-term and that have been entered into by this or prior government. For example, in relation to vaccine programmes, we have made commitments, we have been clear about what we are going to give in the future, and then I have said that it has been important to protect some of those areas of conversion. We have protected the great educational program that we believe is one of the most important to ensure long-term development and women's rights. I know there are areas where many non-governmental organisations need to have money, where they also cooperate with voluntary and civil organisations within each country. But it's not safe to make the changes that we've made without any consequences. It will.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e581	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e584	As soon as we're done here, more than 150 organisations will be demonstrating against the government's proposal to cut aid. We say that this is a mistrust, a gross mistrust of civil society and their work, that is the fury of their efforts, a provocation. This may occur when the government proposes to cut in the long-term assistance, from SEK 1.9 billion. NOK 670 million. kr. Two thirds were cut off without professional justification. It is the long-term assistance relating to human rights, building civil society, education and health for the poor who are suffering, and it is contrary to the Prime Minister's words on a number of previous occasions. I have spoken to one of the organisations at the latest today, which says that they must cut off over 100 agreements they have with organisations in poor countries. It concerns both the Redd Children and Norwegian People's Aid, and the Church's Emergency Aid says the same thing. This is a dramatic transformation. My question to the Prime Minister is, what is the professional reason for this dramatic change?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e591	The technical justification is 33 000 refugees who are coming, who are to be received and who are to be financed, and then we have to make changes to a budget. It's not like that because we underestimate and say that this is bad, that we're making those changes. We did not propose a budget in October with many bad measures. We proposed a budget with very many good measures, but some are better than others. And then it's not certain that this is the only entry in the budget that is about long-term assistance. Most of the other 30 billion. kr also goes to long-term assistance. There are co-ordinated large-scale programmes for long-term assistance around the world and where voluntary organisations have many individual projects in the various areas of activity. Then it's sure: we've done two things. In the original budget, we heard the wish we heard from several representatives of the Parliament that we should have more humanitarian aid. For example, I remember Jonas Gahr Støre making this a point after my presentation in April 2015. It has also done that we have prioritised something else away from long-term assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e599	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e602	Last week we got new vacancies. We have to go back to 1993 to find as many unemployed people as we see now. It's a very alarming development. Many families are affected, and the uncertainty is great about whether one can keep the house, or whether one has to sell and perhaps sell with loss. Since last year we have heard the government say that one follows closely the way the labour market develops. But action is needed. A cut in the taxes on wealth does not contribute much to those who are now unemployed. Yes, we have recorded that the government has increased the number of action places, so that there are now as many action places as in 2013, but then the employment situation is also quite different. And we've seen that the government proposes to spend 200 million. kr more in the Western municipalities for exceptional maintenance – it will be higher than 1 million. kr on each municipality. But if the government comes along, one sees that the unemployment situation has evolved faster than intended. The number of unemployed is now at the level expected by the government next year, and before the government budget is adopted here in the UK. When unemployment rates develop as they do, there is reason for action. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister recommend adjustments to the government budget here in Stortinget, so that fewer people will be unemployed next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e611	The government presented a draft budget based on more work, more activity and more change. It was based on being able to respond to the economic challenge facing Norway. There was a significantly higher increase in this budget than the package the Workers' Party presented in the election campaign, which was also the package they advertised in 2016. That's 4 billion. kr in exceptional actions based on providing more activity, maintenance, innovation and innovation, and it comes to the top of a record high level of research, development and innovation in the underlying budget. It comes at the top of the highest level of activity on transport investment ever, and it comes at the top of a long-term migration initiative such as the one on the top. a major tax reform. This is the answer to this. These are answers that are bigger and clearer than any of what the Workers' Party has ever advertised in connection with this crisis, but it is still more important to hear what their answers to these things are, I think, than the continued criticism of what we are going to do. If this budget is to change in the Storting – we are a minority government, we are going to negotiate these positions. But the government has put on the table more, more volume, more concrete measures than the Workers' Party has outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e616	I thank you for the answer, but I note that the Prime Minister is more concerned with what the Labour Party is going to propose in its budgets than with responding to the concrete challenge for those who are now hit by unemployment. I might have expected the Prime Minister to take over the increase in unemployment that has been in recent months, and have been somewhat more offensive in his answer. It may seem as if the Prime Minister is running a little empty of new ideas. Then I want to remind the Prime Minister of an old idea that actually works. It is to make changes to the permitting rules. That is what the Western companies are asking for. Companies say that if they can leave longer, they can retain capacity and competence – which they need when competing for new tenders. Then my question is: will the Prime Minister contribute to the possibility of industrial enterprises in the West to secure new jobs by changing the rules of the permit?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e623	The government helps to ensure that industrial enterprises in the West can secure new jobs by improving their innovation power, by improving the tax FUNN incentive schemes, by ensuring that they can be profitable and productive, by avoiding paying exceptional taxes and making large profits because their owners have to pay more taxes, which are the Workers’ Party’s answers to these questions. The working party has to endure, when they just come up with criticism of what the government is doing, that we are sometimes a little bit critical back. It's called political debate. I know the Workers' Party doesn't like it, but they have to bear to hear it. We're busy with those who are unemployed, but we're also concerned with the long-term transition. Large parts of the country are now going well and need labour. Then it is important to make sure that the measures we are implementing ensure that workers who should have been put at their disposal, who could move and be elsewhere and contribute to jobs where there is a shortage of labour, actually move. It is one of the challenges of permitting legislation. Norway is in two tracks now. Then we must not lock in e.g. labour force. It is dangerous for the long-term transition and change of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e630	There will be follow-up questions – first Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e633	The concern the Prime Minister has for this so-called lock-in effect seems to be somewhat complicated. The government itself writes in the draft government budget that nine out of ten lay-offs return to work, eight out of ten return to the same company. So it's not about lock-in, it's about inclusion. Better permitting legislation is a unisoning requirement of enterprises along the coast. Only on the south Sunnmare, where I come from, hundreds of workers are at risk of being terminated in the next few months if the period of leave is not extended. When the unemployment rate is probably already higher than the government's budget for next year, is it not soon to meet the companies on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e638	At the same time, there is a shortage of labour in sectors in other parts of the country, and then there is a balance between this. This isn't a new idea, it's an old idea. We've tried long periods of lay-off, and we have pretty good, strong reports from the past on how this actually meant that we didn't get available labour for other companies. Then we're busy meeting the biggest needs of companies in the West. But the greatest needs there are going to be that they are developing further on knowledge and competence. This is what we look at in relation to how labour market measures are implemented and how business-internal training can be carried out. We work with money for innovation – for innovation. We have a shipping strategy, which was very well received before the summer, precisely because it answered the biggest challenges. In the image we have now, we need to make sure that we do not passively lean back on old types of activity measures, but look forward to the transformation that our society is facing, and are more competitive for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e645	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e657	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from Kari Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion, who is directly responsible. Question 4, from the representative of Torstein Tvedt Solberg to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 5, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Culture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Culture has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e674	‘Representatives of the government have indicated that regions that have lost the benefit of a reduced employer’s fee could be compensated in the form of infrastructure measures for the period 2016-2017. Among other things, last autumn the transport industry in Valdres was invited to record proposals for the correction of bottlenecks on national and county roads that could be applicable to such compensations. However, the draft budget for 2016 does not mention such funds. Does the government now turn away from its promises?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e686	The Government proposed in Prop. 118 S for 2013 to 2014 that the compensation scheme for infrastructure actions should be directed towards North Norway. This has also joined the Storting. Furthermore, the Government has taken the view that the extent of the compensatory measures provided for by law is equivalent to the increase in the charges levied by the sectors concerned. We are talking about total scope at macro level, but not necessarily at company, sector or municipality level. The government has established an overall framework for the period 2014–2018 of a total of SEK 1.6 billion. kr for infrastructure measures in the three northernmost counties and for the purchase by the State of transport services. Several compensatory measures have been taken by the government. Among other things, the companies concerned receive de minimis support. The companies concerned in Valdres benefit from this scheme. Furthermore, county councils are compensated for the increased costs incurred in purchasing transport services. It is true that we have received input from both the transport industry and the Uppland County Municipality on measures on bottlenecks proposed to be financed by these means of compensation. However, Nord-Norway has been given priority, mainly because in this part of the country the transport industry is most affected by the conversion of the employer’s tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e695	This signal is quite different from the State Secretary Jardar Jensen gave the industries in Valdres last November. After those signals, a call for input was made. For the business community in Uppland, the change in the reduction in the employer’s cost is 24 million. kr. This is required to include. The things that we have recorded are, of course, going to make sure that everyone in the region is better represented, and then I'm wondering what kind of thinking the Minister has in order to secure other back-up schemes or compensation schemes for the regions. As I said in the opening question, here the government comes back to the promises given by their representatives in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e700	We relate to what the government has signaled to Stortinget, and to what the Storing has joined. And the Stortinget has joined in the compensatory measures that I referred to in my answer. Then it is that the government has a large investment in infrastructure also in the Valdres region and in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, for example. on E16 in Valdres, where there is now a major upgrade. The state road authorities state that Bagn–Bjørgo can start in 2016. In the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, the E6 is set from Ringebu to Otta. We've increased the appropriations for highways by 1.2 billion. kr after the government change in 2013. In addition, there is a strong commitment to rail and increased appropriations for operation and maintenance. So there are large appropriations for infrastructure, and it benefits the Valdres region and Uppland counties, the large-scale investments made by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e705	I am pleased that the Minister is drawing up the great infrastructure measures that are coming – many of them to be opened in the next year. At the same time, a large amount of user funding has been provided, which is also dramatic for industries. For Gausdal Bruvoll BA, which is a case in point in the Gudbrand valley, they represent the extra toll cost no 2 million. kr per year. This is a formidable growth on the cost side of business in these areas. I'm wondering what kind of thoughts the minister has. He could perhaps, together with his government partners, look at other measures that meet with this, because in some cases this becomes even more dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e710	I like the questions, because these are things that the government is also very concerned about, that we should facilitate the business of the domestic economy and ensure that the domestic gold, the forest, can get into the market faster. There is an important reason why there is a great deal of investment in infrastructure – which I also feel is a cross-political consensus – and precisely to repair the E16, which is particularly important for the Valdres region, and to take back some of the delays in maintenance, so that you can get to the market faster. Then we are also in the happy situation, after all, that the krone price is weak, and that benefits the export industries in the county. If we look at the inlands now, the inlands actually have a positive development. We want to make even better use of business in the coming years, and then infrastructure is a very important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e721	This question, from Kari Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who is directing the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e724	‘People on the run will come to most municipalities in Norway. Some municipalities have good experience and practice, others do not. It is essential for further integration that identification, safety and health assessment, housing and inclusion of as much as possible take place as quickly as possible. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the total resources of the region(s) are monitored and integrated, so that refugees, whether coming to small or large municipalities, are quickly and effectively received, clarified and integrated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e731	It is an important issue raised by the representative and points to real challenges. The government has announced that we will deliver our own big message on integration policy in spring 2016. Many large and small municipalities do very well housing and integration work, and each municipality decides how many they can settle on the basis of the capacity of the municipality. At the same time, there are considerable differences in the results of integration work between municipalities. Cooperation and sharing of experience between the different actors in the settlement and integration work is therefore very important, especially in the current situation. Sharing knowledge is something I have also raised in my meetings with rapporteurs around the country, and I met over 280 participants at a national conference on this topic at the latest yesterday. In order for immigration to be sustainable, it is essential that a high proportion of refugees come into work, are used, and are involved and contribute. It is important that more municipalities cooperate more closely with businesses and non-governmental organisations than they do today. We have taken the initiative to cooperate with the NHO on the introduction system. The aim is to help municipalities get more work right and better cooperation with local businesses on the introduction system. As part of the cooperation between the state and the NHO, it is desirable to promote good ways of working. Here is a project in Sandefjord a good example. Through the Ringer project in Water, the NHO has developed a good methodology to help get more people with reduced working capacity into work. It is a methodology that involves close and close cooperation with the business community and a methodology that is just as appropriate for immigrants on the introduction programme as for disabled persons. Today, the people have a co-ordination responsibility for the state's efforts in the county and have arenas for cooperation. The County also has oversight and guidance obligations for the Introduction Act and, by virtue of its role, has good opportunities to support the work of municipalities. Cooperation between the IMDI and the Province is developing in several counties, and it is very important in the situation we are facing. In order to increase the involvement of the statesmen, the government has launched a pilot project in Hordaland and Eastfold to see if the countrymen can contribute more to the settlement of refugees. In Eastfold County now has a network for integration issues for all municipalities in the county. The State of Oppland has taken the initiative to promote integration as one of the main areas of action in the forthcoming regional planning strategy for Uppland County Municipality, and will launch integration pilots in two-three municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e750	The answer from the Council of State shows how complex and serious the situation is, and I think that many of the answers that the Council of State points to are both important and useful. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister stood here earlier today and said that we have to move from the seminar stage to the action stage, so I think that perhaps one of the governments can also strengthen the space for action. Over to volunteering, which the Prime Minister also almost canceled actions linked to in an article here earlier today. They have had enough money, obviously, and they were not given priority when it came to redispatching or fresh money. Does the Minister for Child Equality mean that the potential of volunteering has been triggered?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e757	Not at all. The government has been committed to volunteering in several areas. We've already reinforced the grant that goes from the Ministry of Culture up to volunteering for next year. It is important in the situation we face – not only now, but also in the work being done in the integration field – that municipalities invite the voluntary teams and organisations into their work. We were four ministers who had a meeting with the whole volunteer just one month ago, and we also sent letters to the municipalities where we encourage them to volunteer. There are very many voluntary teams and organisations that are involved and contribute to good integration work, and it is a work that municipalities should use to a far greater extent than they are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e764	We can agree on that. It would have been desirable for the government to follow up with a little concrete action on the increased framework for the voluntary sector as well. I'm going to move on to another point related to refugees, and it's women and children: in 2013 there was a hot theme in the fall of the UN. There were reports of a severe humanitarian crisis in Syria, and women and children were particularly affected. At the time, the government chose not to help either them or other victims in the region where they were, but they proposed to cut back on basic emergency measures to the UN. Women and children coming to Norway have faced special challenges. What measures has the Minister for Children and Gender Equality taken to set up the measures at home, and how has the Minister for Children and Gender Equality brought forward this message and these issues in the international talks she has had with other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e771	In the international work that the government is doing on this particular field, we're raising it both with sexual mutilation and working towards reproductive health and forcibly. However, there are also measures that the government is strengthening here in Norway, because it is an important work. What is important is that we get started quickly when the newly arrived refugees are allowed to stay, is that they are informed and informed of the rights and laws in force in Norway. We also need to provide an offer to those who are subject to forced marriage and sexual mutilation, and the housing offer and after-sales offer to those who are exposed to this, the government has strengthened the budget, both for the current year and for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e782	My question goes to the Minister for Transport and says: ‘The EU is adopting a new European offshore helicopter code, HOFO. The legislation will allow foreign helicopter carriers to operate on a Norwegian base and Norway will no longer be able to require a national operating authorisation. This could result in significant consequences for the safety of Norwegian offshore helicopter operations. Will the Council of State carry out an impact assessment prior to the possible introduction of new legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e792	The EU is now in the final phase putting in place new additional rules for offshore helicopter operations. Norway has committed itself to this legislative work in order to bring the European level of safety up to an acceptable level. We have a very good history for Norwegian offshore, fortunately. Norwegian continental shelf is not automatically part of the EEA Agreement. As a result, these rules do not automatically apply to Norway. But we can choose to let the rules apply. The draft rules must be seen in the context of the Single European Aviation Safety Work and the development of a single internal market in Europe. The aim of the legislation is to provide a level playing field for all European operators, which facilitates an open market for offshore operations, as is the case for the rest of European aviation. Like other draft legislation, I will analyse and assess the expected significant impact that the proposed additional rules could have. I will consider both the consequences of introducing the rules and the consequences of not introducing the rules. I am concerned about the impact that my assessment will have on both the helicopter operators, the employees of the helicopter industry, the employees of the petroleum industry and the oil companies. Helicopter Safety Cooperation Forum on the continental shelf has asked me to engage an external investigator to identify the consequences of the legislation. Until now, I have not found it necessary. I can assure you that I will lay down the resources needed to identify both the safety, employment and business consequences of the legislation for Norway, before they may be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. For the time being, I do not conclude either with yes or no to an investigation. We need to see what the legislation will eventually be, and what we're doing with the resources we already have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e805	On the British side of the North Sea, 25 accidents were reported between 1992 and 2013, seven of which were fatal and cost 51 lives. The Shetland accident two years ago was the fifth of less than five years in the British sector. During the same period, one fatal accident occurred in the Norwegian sector: the Norne accident, with 12 fatalities. Helicopter Safety Cooperation Forum on Norwegian continental shelf has, as the question arose, requested an impact assessment of independent third parties. Now we hear that this is what you will wait for. Introduced the Code, the PCF considers that there could be serious consequences for Norwegian offshore operations: reduction of safety, removal of national requirements, over-emphasis on British studies, loss of control and sanctioning opportunities for Norwegian authorities; the Air Safety Authority loses oversight responsibilities. My question is: does the Minister share the concerns of the Cooperation Forum, which is a wide-ranging forum?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e812	Norwegian aviation has a very good safety history. Helicopters on Norwegian base also have a good history, which was recorded. I have every intention of continuing. That is why we also look at what the EU adopts before we ourselves conclude what we want to do. We don't want to be involved in any changes that mean that we're going to be weakened by security, either for those who fly helicopters or for those who are passengers. It is also about the reputation of the Norwegian petroleum sector. It's about having an oil sector that should be both cleaner than what's usual in the world, and safer. We have to maintain that in a good way. Therefore, it is important that we look at what they finally adopt, and get the Air Safety Authority and other expert groups to make an assessment of it. Then we have to make an assessment of the other consequences this will have for the helicopter industry, for the oil industry, for workers and those sides of it. Since this is not completed in the EU, it is not yet right, I believe, to conclude whether an external investigation is needed or whether our internal resources are more than good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e821	I am satisfied with the answer and that you focus on safety, which must be the most important thing in this case. I see that the parties are asking what the weighty arguments for introducing this legislation are. All interested parties, not least the employees, say that this will lead to loss of Norwegian safety requirements and loss of national operating authorisation. It will not least weaken the great model of cooperation that is in this forum. I understand – as the Minister confirms – that Norway can say no to the implementation of this legislation, as Norwegian socket is not affected by the EEA Agreement. I understand that the minister will wait for the final reading before he takes a decision on both an external investigation, an impact assessment, and whether we should say yes or no, as the case may be. Does the Minister already consider refusing to implement what is so far known of the legislation at this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e830	I don't want to pre-conclusion either way. We have also met with the PCF and many other stakeholders in this. We've made a lot of reviews along the way. We've been to conferences. We have made trade unions and others, who have raised their arguments. There are a lot of different interests here to balance with each other. I believe that we need to look at what Norway is best served with, both on the safety side, on the worker side, in the oil industry, in the helicopter industry, and in terms of people's sense of security in the aviation industry in general. We have an air traffic controller who, in my opinion, does an excellent job, which has good history to point to. And even if you were to end up with a European regulation, the Air Safety Authority will continue to be the decisive authority that can stop flights from happening if they believe that this is not good enough. One might say that despite the fact that the Air Safety Authority already has that possibility on all flights, it would not be sufficient if a single European regulatory framework were to be practised very differently by different supervisory countries, thus creating problems in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e850	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e864	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e871	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment: «Bad air quality is a major problem in many of our large municipalities. The new Oslo City Council wants to improve air quality, among other things. by making more streets and inner city without car. From members of the government this is described as a ‘bad nightmare’ for the people. Is this agreed by the Council of State or is she in favour of local initiatives to reduce car traffic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e880	Air quality is a problem in many Norwegian municipalities. Norway has been convicted of this relationship by the EFTA Court because we broke the Air Quality Directive in the years 2009–2012. Air quality has improved in recent years. In 2014, there were no Norwegian cities with exceedances of the limit values for particulate matter. Only Oslo and Bergen exceeded the limit values for nitrogen dioxide. Already today, municipalities can use a number of instruments to improve local air quality. But the government is working on providing cities with more tools. The government has decided that a legislative work for low-emission zones should be started, as some municipalities have requested. Work is in progress — yesterday the Minister for Transport met with a number of municipalities to hear their views on the matter. The government supports local self-government and will therefore be open to listening to proposals for action based on local wishes. So far, no concrete proposal has been made by the new City Council on car-free centres in Oslo. However, a total ban on the use of cars throughout Oslo Centre is not a policy that the government believes is appropriate. I believe it is important to pursue a policy that provides good alternatives for travellers, so that more people want to choose the bus and the track and fewer want to choose the car. More car-free streets and fewer cars in the city center are a positive development that we will welcome. The government's objective is to take traffic growth through public transport, bicycles and corridors. Therefore, it makes sense that the car will play a relatively small role in passenger transport in the big cities of the years to come. The rate of public transport in urban areas has increased considerably during this government. In addition, the previous City Council in Oslo has done a good job. The fact is that 93 pst. of the work journeys into the Oslo Centre are carried out by environmentally friendly means of transport. In addition, the Government of the State budget for 2016 has proposed to increase the appropriations for bicycle and pedestrian routes by 50 pst. There is a good basis for this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e899	I would like to thank the Council of State for many sensible thoughts, and she shows how serious this is. It should be a matter of course for Norway that we should not be condemned for having illegal bad air. So I think it's good that she boasts that it's going to be introduced low-emission zones. It was a proposal that came from the Stortinget that her own government colleagues in the Progress Party voted against, so we look forward to the government working on it. It also shows that there is less car traffic in, for example, Oslo today. Among other things, we see: pictures from what it was like at Karl Johan earlier, where there were cars all over the place. Through the Folketheater passenger at Youngstorget, there was earlier car traffic, which has been removed. It has not been done by itself; it has been done because someone has suggested it. The councils gave a very positive opinion on what the Municipality of Oslo is now doing, and said that she supported it. It was so alarming that Arne Strand gave her a roll of dice. It made her withdraw it. My question again goes to the Minister: does she support what is now a proposal from the new City Council to make the inner city car-free, or does she agree with Siv Jensen that this is a ‘bad nightmare’ for the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e912	As I said in my first answer, several car-free streets and fewer cars in the city centre are a positive development that we will welcome. It's a development we've seen in Oslo in recent years. I also tried to say in the interview in VG that the previous city council has done a formidable job in this area, so that 93 pst. the journeys to work are now carried out either by public transport, bicycle or by-pass. That's the total ban we've been against. I think that the work that the previous city council has started, and that government is putting up with more efforts on public transport and more on foot and by bicycle, is a development that we see coming. It gives more pleasant city centers, it makes it more attractive also for others both to use bicycles and to walk more, but it is this total ban, without thinking about practical solutions, which the government is opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e919	I then choose to interpret the council positively. And I choose to interpret her there that she is actually positive that local initiatives are being taken around our municipalities, that she is taking away from the tone that has been introduced in this house, where the head of the Transport Committee on the Stortinget believes that this is creating a Berlin Wall, where the finance minister says that now the Norwegian people are going to take up Norwegian politicians, and that this is a ‘bad nightmare’ in which they have woken up – that she is taking a distance from that tone and is committed to finding practical solutions, in line with what the new Oslo City Council also wants to do, to find practical solutions, among other things. with the commercial sector. I therefore choose to close my question whether she supports it or not, I go to a slightly more open question in the end. Air quality is a huge problem. We're talking about 1,500 people getting a shortened life every year. After all, the Minister of Health should welcome all the local initiatives that are coming. For the time being, it has been quiet from him. My question to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is therefore: What immediate action does she think is necessary, and will she take initiatives to improve air quality, so that we do not have a situation where it is dangerous for many people to go on the street?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e926	The government takes the challenge of air quality seriously. We have been sentenced in the EFTA Court for poor air quality in the period 2009-2012. We have a cross-political responsibility to clean this up. That is why, as I said in my first answer, we have now decided that legislative work on low-carbon zones should be started – the work is in progress. We also look at a legislative amendment to provide the municipalities and county councils with a basis for demanding that the taxi industry have low-emission or zero-emission technologies. It has now been sent to the public hearing of the Ministry of Transport. Environmental differentiation through AutoPASS is under investigation at the Directorate of Roads. In addition, this government has proposed large increases in public transport appropriations and more road and cycle routes. So I think we're doing a lot of constructive on this, and here we want a good cooperation with the City Council in Oslo to solve this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e935	The question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment and says: ‘In 2002, following extensive debate, the Stortinget decided to take the route for the Ringeriksbanen over Åsa instead of Kroksund at the Tyrifjord. The rationale was ‘the major negative impacts on landscapes, cultural memories, the natural environment and agriculture’. In June 2015, the Decision was repealed completely without justification so that we are now at risk of a rail crossing through vulnerable wetlands covered by the Northern Tyriforden wetland system protection plan. Will the Council of State take the protective plan out of the drawer and do something to prevent these interventions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e944	The government decided in 2014 to see the planning of new E16 and new Ringeriksbahn in the context – this in order to plan more appropriately and reduce total costs. Following a debate in which the representative Rasmus Hansson also contributed his views on the matter, the Stortinget decided in June 2015 to release the government from the previous decision to build a new railway on Åsa. This has given the government the opportunity to assess whether common road and rail planning is the best solution. I am aware that the construction of new E16 and new Ringeriksbahn from Kroksund to Hønefoss are challenging for nature and cultural values. As far as possible, the government has sought to focus attention on these values in its choice of solutions. The line between Skaret and Hönefoss is divided into five subdivisions. On sub-section 3, The Gäsvåslasen–Bymoen, it is chosen to plan a long tunnel. This protects important landscape, nature and cultural values. It's on sub-section 4, Bymoen–Styggedalen, we have the biggest challenges for natural and cultural values. Among other things, this applies to wetlands, as the representative addresses his question. The government believes that there is a need for a better planning basis before a final decision is taken on trajectory choices. Therefore, a pre-project is now being carried out that will provide us with the necessary knowledge to make a choice between the three alternative lines presented. At the same time that we're working on finding the best solution for the new Ringerik Railway, we're working on completing the protective plan for the Tyrif soil. I can reassure the representative Rasmus Hansson that the plan is not in the drawer, but that it is working to finalise the protection plan. New Ringeriksbane will develop both Bergensbanen and make it more competitive against aircraft. In addition, it will improve conditions for more climate-friendly transport in the Eastern region. With a new knowledge base up-to-date, the aim is to also provide a solution that provides important natural values. The completion of the protective plan for the Tyrif soil is an important part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e955	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. This area of the Northern Tyrifjord is Norway's second most important wetlands area, an extremely important area for cultural landscapes and memories. Several sites internationally protected by the Ramsar Convention. After a thorough debate, the size has determined that this area should not get a railway through it. Can the Minister for the Environment explain what has changed, from an environmental and natural point of view, which means that it is now possible for the Minister for the Environment to put a railway through that area, which Stortinget agreed so unisonly that it should be preserved and rescued from such a railway a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e962	As I said in my first answer, Stortinget has now released the government, so that we can see the planning of the new E16 and the Ringeriksban in the context – that is what we are doing now – to get an appropriate planning. From a climate point of view, the Ringerix Railway is a very important measure. So now we look at the different options, because we see that there are some challenges in terms of natural values. That's why we have three different pathways for investigation, which we also want to see in connection with the protection plan for the Tyrif soil. It is when knowledge is available that the government will make its assessment and choose the path that provides the best overall social benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e967	The railway track around Åsa, originally proposed by Stortinget, takes something like two minutes more and does of course no harm in terms of the climate benefits by expanding the Ringerix track. The question I put to the Council of State as the Environment Council is: what is it about the assessments of nature protection, the scientific and cultural assessments, which now suddenly makes it possible for the Council of State to put a railway through this area, as the Storting has said in the past that it has such a high level of protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e974	The same Stortinget has released the government, so that the government can now plan a new E16 and Ringeriksbanen in a context. That's what we're doing, because we see that getting the Ringerix track in place is very important from the point of view of climate. So being able to plan this in a context we're concerned about. So we know that no matter which trajectory is chosen, consideration for nature and cultural values must be incorporated into the forthcoming detailed plans. It will also apply to any necessary remedial and compensatory measures. We also want to see the protection plan for the Tyrif soil in connection with the planning of both new roads and new railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e985	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In the Grand Council Question Time on 20 May, the Council of State replied to questions about the continuation of free core time for all four- and five-year-olds in the districts of Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand with area bets: ‘This scheme will continue the contract period for the regional operation, 2016 and 2017 respectively.’ However, in the State budget, the appropriations for this cut are from just 60 million. NOK 39 million. kr, and the districts have been informed that free core time for all ends after June 2016. Will the Council of State follow up what she said in the Storting in May?"
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e994	As the representative is aware, from 1 August of this year a nationwide free core-time scheme for four- and five-year-olds in low-income families was introduced. This was decided by the Stortinget in the context of the 2014 budgetary procedure, and it was the result of positive results from trials with free core time in kindergarten, among others. in Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand. Now the vast majority of the children in these districts go to kindergarten. The national scheme gives more children throughout Oslo and throughout the country the opportunity to go to kindergarten. In addition, the new parental maternity scheme provides more families with cheaper kindergartens. As I replied to the representative Bøhler on 20 May, free core time in Kinderhagen has been an important part of the state's contribution to the area bet. There has been an offer to refund parental pay 20 hours a week for all four- and five-year-olds in the districts of Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand, i.e. not just for children in low-income families. The area operation in the Groruddalen has been ongoing since 2007. There has never been such a large and global investment from the state and municipality in an area in Norway. In August of this year, a new spatial effort agreement was concluded in the Groruddalen for the period 2017-2026. Kindergarten and school are identified as one of the three main fields of action in this area. The trial of free core time is described in more detail in the draft budget for 2016 than what I said in the Stortinget in May. In particular, the draft budget sets out: at 105 million. SEK of the proposed total appropriation of 143,9 million. kr for free core time is used to cover the national scheme for four- and five-year-olds. The remaining 38.9 million. kr has been proposed for work on the recruitment of children to kindergarten and activities for parents, as well as the reimbursement of parental payments for kindergarten. The municipalities that have tried free core time can now apply for these funds. There is therefore no end to free core time trials, although the allocation of the trials has been reduced as a result of the national scheme. The current regional initiatives are due to expire in 2016 in Groruddalen and in 2017 in Søndre Nordstrand. Therefore, the phasing-out of the parental benefit reimbursement scheme is set at the end of the kindergarten year 2015/2016 in Groruddalen and 2016/2017 in Oslo South. It is natural to phase out the reimbursement of parental benefit related to trials of free core time at the end of the kindergarten year, as is the case with regular changes in the kindergarten and school sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1011	I thank you for your answer. What I asked about in May was whether to continue with this scheme, which applies to all four- and five-year-olds, after the government has introduced the national free core-time scheme for the very poorest families, because in these areas special inclusion challenges are in place, which are much more extensive than in the country where the scheme applies to the poorest. The Council of State then replied that this scheme, which applies to all, will continue the contract period for the area operation, 2016 and 2017 respectively – i.e. out of the year, not until June of next year, i.e. half-year. I have to say that in order to plan the inclusion work in the districts and in view of the 3,000 children who no longer have free core time from June next year, this is a serious change in the signals from the council compared to what was blacked out in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1018	As I replied in May, this area effort will continue in 2015/2016 in Groruddalen and in 2016/2017 in Oslo Sør. However, it has been natural for us to phase out the reimbursement scheme for parental payments related to trials with free core time at the end of kindergarten. This is how other regulatory changes are made in the kindergarten and school sectors, and then it is natural for that scheme to be phased out in June. I have also argued that it is not appropriate to continue the scheme until the end of the year, i.e. to start with a parental pension for half a kindergarten year from August until Christmas. Instead, I believe that it is logical to follow the kindergarten year. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the IMDi sent a circular to the municipalities for the second half of 2015 informing the municipalities that they could not count on equivalent funds in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1025	I don't think the parents of the 3,000 children who now have free core time in the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand believe that it's natural to say "out of the contract period", i.e. out of 2016 and 2017, that you count it as just half a year. So the message given to the districts in a meeting in mid-October came as a big surprise. My question in May was whether to continue the free core time scheme for all in these areas with special inclusion challenges in the next bet period, i.e. the one that runs from 2016 and 2017, and where at least the Municipality of Oslo believes it should go for another ten years. Then the Council of State replied that it would come back to that. They had not yet taken a position on whether to continue with the scheme that applies to everyone – i.e. that there is a different scheme to the one that applies only to the poorest families, which is approx. one fifth of those who now have free core time in these districts. The question is, what is the reason why we have decided so quickly to cut out this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1034	The area effort that has been in Oslo has been very useful and has also produced good results. Then I am very happy that the Storting has decided that the free core time area bet has now become a national scheme, i.e. that several four- and five-year-olds across the country will also receive a better offer. The government has set that limit to an income of 405000 kroner, i.e. that several four- and five-year-olds receive this offer. There are also several four- and five-year-olds in the municipality of Oslo who will get a better offer than they have today. It is also important to stress that the moderation system for childcare payments that the government has also introduced will benefit more families, so that more families now receive lower prices and rates in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1047	My question to the Minister of Justice is this: ‘Will the Stortinge have the opportunity to consider any changes in the structure of the District Court, or will this be decided in the Ministry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1055	Let me first thank the representative for the question. The Ministry of Justice and Defence, known to the representative, has consulted on a proposal to merge ten district courts. This applies to: Lower Telemark District Court and East-Telemark District Court with proposals for location in Skien Jären District Court and Dalane District Court located in Sandnes South-Trøndelag and Fosen District Court located in Trondheim Eiker, Modum and Sigdal District Court and Kongsberg District Court respectively with location in Kongsberg and Hokksund Bergen District Court and Nordhordland District Court located in Bergen, which today The hearing deadline was 5 September 2015, and we are now working on the review of those hearings. The government has therefore not taken a final position on these merger proposals. The proposals for aggregation are discussed in Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016, and I have not suggested that these merger proposals be promoted as a matter of their own for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1082	I thank you for your answer. The State budget states: ‘The Government intends to implement the abovementioned aggregations during 2016.’ For me, it's a little hard to see that someone doesn't have a good position to do it. I also found it a pity that one did not suggest that one should deal with it in Stortinget, as I have asked the Minister of Justice a written question about it earlier and received a yes answer to that question. So it should be right: it's in the state budget now, so it's, as it were, in the Storting now, but it's not a good way to do it. We also see that organisations like Parat are aware that the Court of Justice has broken the main agreement in the process with the courts to which this applies. We also believe that these things, in addition to those that are likely to be planned, had sparked a proper political treatment and a treatment that is in line with the rules of the labour market. I wonder if the Minister of Justice agrees, whether he is willing to take action to secure it, or will he ignore the criticism of Parat and the addendum that this has directly followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1096	That's the question of multiple things at the same time. I note that the representative is dissatisfied with the process associated with these ten merger proposals. The previous government did so in the same way in the case of Sør-Trøndelag and Trondheim district in 2010, so it's nothing new that the Stortinget is involved in this kind of structural change in this way. So I'm a little surprised by the sharp criticism in that area. In this way, this is mentioned in the State budget, and the Stortinget is thus involved. In the case of the other process, the Court of Justice is now carrying out a major review of possible major structural changes. It is quite natural that such a change in structure – if it is followed further up by the government – is presented to the Stortinget in its entirety. So I think it's important that a distinction be made between the concrete merge proposals that lie here and the further process associated with a possible major structural change in the case law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1105	For me, who comes from Telemark, who is being affected by what is now in the state budget, it's probably a little hard to understand that this should be something other than for other things that might have been put together. It's especially that one doesn't want to see everything in a bigger context, and I have to say that we react to the way it's done. Here we know that the leaders of the courts are asked, and not added. Only there is a bad process. And if the previous government did it that way, I still think it's a wretched process, and it should be one that should learn from and do in a much better way. The evening post today shows an overview of the total reductions we can get if the Court administration gets what they want. It will mean considerably longer travel, again, too many. This will mean the disappearance of competence jobs in the districts. But the most important thing, anyway -- even for the Workers' Party -- is the quality, and I can't find any evidence that the smaller things are worse than the bigger ones. What concrete evidence does the Minister of Justice have in that case that greater rights of property are better than less?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1114	I'm just repeating what I said in my previous answer that this process has also been followed by the previous government linked to a very concrete merger, as I mentioned. Then I am concerned that in these processes both the rules of the labour market are to be followed and one is to be widely involved in the processes, and I assume that the administration of the Court of Justice does so. It is the court administration that implements that dialogue and that follow-up. When it comes to the question of whether large or small courts are the most effective, we know at least that small courts are significantly more vulnerable. So we have courts in Norway that have two jurisprudences, and it is clear that it is a court that is very vulnerable, and all courts at the level of the district court should be able to handle all kinds of cases. I think we have to admit that we have a complexity and another kind of thing that goes too many things now, than what we had before. But as I said, the government will first receive the proposal from the Court of Justice administration and then assess whether it should be followed up, and in the case of how it should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1125	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-04.ana.ud2643e1138	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
