ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e48	A majority in Stortinget believes that the responsibility for dental care should be transferred to the municipalities. Municipalities shall be free to organise responsibility either on their own initiative, in cooperation with private/ideal or in cooperation with other municipalities. In the comments, the majority added that the government needs to assess measures to facilitate the continuation of the environments of competence in regional centres of excellence and in the specialist service. The Norwegian dental model is a conditional success story. Today's organisation, with a strong public dental service and a well-functioning private sector, combined with a targeted and growing social welfare system in public health, has helped to smooth out the social inequalities in dental health. Norway has good dental coverage compared to other countries. In the international context, the proportion of the population regularly seeking dental care is very high. That said, there is a great variation in the price of the private dental care, and it is demanding to provide a long-term country with a good deal. An estimated 45 municipalities are currently totally or partially lacking a dental offer, and 18-year-olds in Finnmark are the 18-year-olds in the country who have the worst teeth. Geographical distances, low population density and socio-cultural differences will not disappear with new and larger municipalities. Compared to the fixed medical system, which has a population responsibility for the health of the population, we lack a corresponding responsibility in dental care. So we can always get better. The question is how. The benefit of a transfer to new and larger municipalities can be a dental service better integrated with other health services. There is a lot of good public health in good dental practice, and especially since we use large resources with free dental treatment for children and young people up to 20 years of age, the interaction between school health, health and dental care is important. Better integration with other primary health services could also have a major impact on patients with complex diseases, disabilities and psychiatry and drug problems. It is enough to mention that in just a few years we have gone from 0 to 10,000 patients in LAR treatment in Norway, i.e. medically assisted rehabilitation. Medicines and drugs in themselves create for some extra challenges with dental health. For the elderly and caregivers, a transfer of responsibility to the municipalities can also create better interaction and increase the supply of necessary dental care as part of the municipal care service. Reorganisation can also bring challenges. We have economic, capacity and distribution challenges. And we politicians are part of the challenge. Several of us want the public health to cover more of the bill, and that dental health should be financed more in line with other health issues, especially the specialised dental treatment. Public dental expenditure is now allocated about 3 billion. kr in framework transfers to county councils and approximately 2 billion. kr over the public’s right to reimbursement for treatment. We are living longer, we are going to be many more older than 80 years with the associated need for more dental treatment, and the influx of refugees and asylum seekers with high needs also in dental treatment is growing. The goal must be to provide even better dental health in Norway for the coming generations. We therefore need to ensure early intervention and prevention, organise ourselves well and ensure good recruitment to dental services. Reorganisations alone rarely automatically lead to a better offer. So we should know what we're doing. The dental services are not in urgent need of reorganisation, and I therefore assume that further investigations are on the steps related to both organisation, funding, interaction and recruitment. Neither in the Public Health Communication, which we dealt with in the Storting in ours, nor in the Primary Health Communication, which we are due to issue from the Committee later today, dental health is a specifically mentioned topic. I also record that this year there is 1-1 in the aggregation of municipalities and counties. Yesterday, the message came that South and North Trondelag wanted to become ‘Big-Trøndelag’ from 2018. Three municipalities in Vestfold have previously decided to become one municipality. If it turns out now that the counties are more eager than the municipalities to get bigger, it may not be safe that this is the task that the most urgent is to start the transfer of. But we're going to leave that snowball behind. It's interesting to note, however, that in the North-Tronde Team you spend 602 kroner per capita on dental health, while in the South-Tronde Team the corresponding amount is 371 kroner. For me and the Left, it is anyway important that we create a better service for those who need it the most. There are many vulnerable groups who need a good and specialised dental care, and some diseases will require very special skills. Interaction is a keyword and necessary for a better and more seamless service. Those who work with patients with severe disabilities and chronic diseases report the need for more interaction, for more public health specialists and for better financial instruments. It has not been given that this is well enough taken care of, no matter how organized, so we have to address these concerns. In the further process, therefore, we need to get the best possible basis and make the right choices. We have little room for action to feel wrong. We need to feel sure that the service is developing positively – primarily for patients, but also for those working in the sector. And as mentioned earlier, I am particularly concerned about ensuring a continued good competence and an even better offer for those who need it the most. In a transfer to municipalities, it is important that the professional environments become large enough to ensure good quality. At the same time, it is necessary to establish a structure that ensures that dental care is considered to be an equivalent partner with other health services, be it regular, care services or specialist health services. I believe that dental care should be organised as much as possible in line with the organisation of the rest of the healthcare system: in a primary and a specialist service. The primary dental care should therefore be closely linked to the municipal doctor in the municipalities, but not necessarily to the municipal doctor. The size has suggested that municipalities should be free to cooperate with private dentists, but for those with complex needs it is more important to build up an environment with proper competence rather than to spread patients to a variety of treatment and clinics. The competent environment that can gain experience in the complex and complex cases is essential and should be governed by public policy. There are currently too few specialists in the ordinary public dentistry, and there is a lack of special competence for children with complex problems and people with disabilities. There is a need for more dental practitioners with specialist training on children and disabled people in the districts, and at the same time we need to take care of the regional odontological centres of excellence that are under construction. These are established in five regions, in the north, in the middle, in the west, in the east and in the south. The mission of the centres overlaps to some extent with the mission of the odontological institutes, and this has led to some turmoil around some of the centres, perhaps especially in the eastern region. Universities believe that competence is spread too widely, especially in research and education assignments. The centres should also provide specialist treatment, and it has been claimed that such centres are not needed in areas that already have many private specialists. Given those patients who do not receive a good enough offer today, I believe that regional odontological centres of excellence should be maintained and further developed. They should be given a clear mandate to deal with patients who are currently striving to benefit from other offers, both because of lack of competence and because of the economy. Many of these are patients for whom public dentistry is initially responsible. These are patients who, today, are likely to fall through the system, such as those with mental retardation with high treatment needs, including the need for regulation, which is now almost exclusively given in private terms. It also applies to other chronically ill and, in particular, to children with complex needs. In order to ensure good access to specialist services to all those who need to be provided, social security suspensions should be reviewed, in particular in view of the diagnosis or damage that triggers HELFO reimbursement, irrespective of whether one has rights in the public dental service. This will be important to clarify with a view to reorganising the municipalities. So I'll finally talk a little bit about innovation. A sector that sells about $5 billion of public dollars, and with the associated billion-dollar non-public doom, has in itself a potential for more research and not least more innovation, and perhaps even business development. Very few people in the health sector ask like the private dentists: ‘When does it fit for you next time?’ They provide good and customized service, have up-to-date equipment, and I think they’re reasonably online, actually among the best in the health sector. How should we put these opportunities in a better position, both for patients and for professionals, and also for local and regional business and health? Here, I think there is also an opportunity for increased cooperation in the municipal primary health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e84	As the representative points out, a key objective of the reform is to achieve better services closer to where people live. By integrating dental care with other municipal health and care services, the overall need for services for individuals could be better addressed. In particular, this applies to people with special and high relief needs, such as: those entitled to individual level. The government has assumed that the current responsibilities and tasks under the Dental Services Act are to be transferred from county municipalities to municipalities. This implies that municipalities will be responsible for the availability of dental services to the entire population, including specialist dental services. This applies to both public and private services. Municipalities will also be responsible for health promotion and prevention in the dental field. Integrating dental and other health makes it possible to coordinate prevention and health promotion activities. The municipality needs to ensure the necessary dental care and provide regular and up-to-date dental care for persons with rights under the law. This must be done in cooperation with the other municipal services. When dental services are transferred from county to municipality, the municipality's responsibility to provide the necessary dental care remains limited to persons with legal rights, i.e.: children and young people up to 20 years of age, mentally retarded persons, persons at home or other health institutions and persons receiving home care who have a high level of dental needs due to illness or injury. There will be no change here. The dental care shall be at least as competent as today. Since the transfer of responsibilities for dental care is assumed to be a business transfer, the assistance is provided by the same dental staff. And patients will maintain the right to free dental treatment, as practice is today. This will also apply to people in municipal care, who are also currently offered free dental care from the county. It will be up to each municipality whether the municipality will purchase dental services from private individuals, as is the practice for other health and care services. This was clarified in the majority comments in the vote on the Storing Communication on the Municipal Reform. Most of those with dental rights who require dental treatment receive treatment from a general practitioner. The dental specialist shall be consulted as necessary. The right to free dental care also applies to specialist treatment, and the costs are borne by the county. This applies regardless of whether the treatment is carried out by a dental specialist employed in the county or by a private dentist specialist. The exception is dental regulation for children and young people, where public health covers a large part of the expenditure. In more rare cases, the patient is referred to hospitals. As from 1 July of this year, the legislation has been amended so that dental practitioners can refer directly to the specialist healthcare service, in line with the prescribers. In case of serious damage to the jaw and face, the patient is likely to be hospitalised directly for emergency treatment. Over several years, the Stortinget has granted grants for the establishment and construction of five regional odontological centres of excellence. Competence centres are operated by counties. Centres provide specialist treatment by referral, provide advice and guidance to general dentistry and contribute to the continuing training of dental professionals. In the case of full operation, centres of expertise shall be staffed with all types of dental specialists, as the government has established in the grant management. Officials may consult, obtain advice and guidance from centres of excellence and may refer to 10 1 specialist. Some county municipalities have pointed out to the department that the centre of competence has led to a better quality of service in the county dental services. The majority of the Committee, i.e. The members of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, a note dealing with this theme: ‘The government must assess measures to facilitate the continuation of the environments of competence in regional centres of excellence and in the specialist dental care.’ My ambition is that regional centres of excellence should be fully developed on the day of the transfer of responsibility for dental care to municipalities. Some county municipalities have also established specialist settings in some general dentistry clinics. The majority of the population agreed that responsibility for specialist dental services, including centres of expertise, should also be transferred to the municipalities. I believe that the measures being taken and those planned will provide people who are currently entitled to the necessary dental care – and who have a high level of treatment needs due to illness or injury – with the same competent dental care as they are receiving today. It shall take place in cooperation between the public dentistry and dental specialists, and with the same financial coverage as at present. The State funding of the regional odontological centres of excellence is also used to build up research activities at the centres. Central here is epidemiological and practical research, often in cooperation with other health professionals. Competence centres also cooperate with research environments in social medicine, general medicine, care services, mental health, alcohol, violence and trauma and hospital settings. The county general dentistry clinics are involved in this research. Municipalities stress that centres of excellence will support the development of the competence and professional development of dental services. By involving dental clinics in practical clinical research, general dentists will gain increased competence and knowledge. In preparing for the transfer of dental services to municipalities, provision shall be made for the continuation of such research cooperation. This is in line with the majority comments in the vote on the Storing Communication on the Municipal Reform. People over 20 years of age who are entitled to dental benefits from public health will have the same rights as today. These are often people with a high need for treatment, carried out by general practitioners alone or in cooperation with dental specialists. Most are treated in private practice, but many are also treated in county dental services and in centres of expertise. This will of course continue as before. Any change in the dental benefit scheme from public health shall be assessed independently of the municipal reform and the assignment of tasks to the municipalities of dental care. If amendments are relevant, these will be changes that will have to be made to the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e119	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As he was inside, there are most opportunities ahead of us, but, as I was about, some challenges. In my first post, I was in public health, but not so much. The dentists are also an important profession that we have to remember, especially because we put in efforts early, and should continue to do so, and then there is a working group that we sometimes forget. They also become important as older people get older, and they are also, to put it that way, a mobile profession, which travels to schools and kindergartens, but which are also used to home visits. As more and more older people live at home, we are dependent on looking at the mobility of the municipal care sector, and here I believe that dental care can strengthen that service. So for recruitment: after the dental training was established in Tromsø, we see the interesting phenomenon that 90 pst. of those who have completed the study will establish themselves in North Norway. It shows that what we adopt in the Biggest and Central is of great importance in how we distribute resources. There was a big fight if there was to be a dental training in addition to that in Bergen and Oslo, but later on it shows that it was quite right. Another challenge for recruitment — and in particular for the public part of the offer — is whether there is an excessive pay gap between the private practitioners and those to work in the public service. For this reason, we also need to make sure that we distribute these resources as best as possible, that we develop the environments of competence, so that it becomes attractive to work in those professional environments and not only pay is the driving force. So to the regional centres of excellence, because they are the important resource for allocating competences across the country: it is clear that there is a challenge here that they will have many more owners to deal with, no matter how few or many municipalities it will be, and that ownership will be well managed. Management in the dental sector is also important, as the large part of the service is made up of the private sector. I was concerned about this with population responsibility, but also the management of that field. It has to be both regionally and municipally anchored.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e132	I very much agree with the points that the interpellant here addresses, and I think that this reform will facilitate many new opportunities for patient groups that we are not good enough to reach today. As the interpellant was involved in his post, the general situation is that in Norway we have a very good dental health. It's not least because the population is very conscious of taking care of their own dental health. Dentists may also be the health professionals who are most likely to talk to their patients about what they should do to prevent diseases and the need for treatment. It is also the part of healthcare that most people regularly visit, and it receives a lot of positive feedback. Dentists are also a health professionals who are not only good at talking to their patients – they are also good at seeing their patients. For example, in criminal proceedings, they are among those who are most likely to notify further to other services, such as: the protection of children. So I think someone in other parts of the health care has a lot to learn from dental care. However, what is a challenge and a concern is that some of the patients who currently have rights do not necessarily receive the dental care they need. As the interpellant sees, in many cases it can be about fragile elderly people living at home, who today receive many of their health services at home in connection with home care and in other ways, but who tend to have greater problems visiting dental services. The fact that dental services and home-based health services enter the same organisation, I think that a person, for example, can be involved. can look at how dental care providers can make a greater contribution to home care in order to ensure the health of the elderly living at home. The same applies to those who have been admitted for a long time to a nursing home, which we also know has worse dental health. It's because of the simple fact that when people came to the hospital before, they had bites, while now they have their own teeth, which require dental care. It's important that we take care of the positive things that have happened in the dental field in this transfer. Regional centres of excellence are really one of the great advances we have made in this area. That is why we have invited the Dental Association to work closely together in the design of this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e149	As the interpellant was inside, the Norwegian dental model is a success story. Today’s organisation, with strong public dentistry and a well-functioning private sector combined with targeted social welfare schemes in public health, has helped to smooth out the social inequalities in dental health. As both the interpellant and the minister were in, we have good dental coverage compared to other countries. In the international context, the proportion of the population regularly seeking dental treatment is very high. Today's model gives us a systematic follow-up of all children, residents of health institutions and people with special challenges. Personally, I have visited local public dental services, municipalities and the research community at the Odontologist in Bergen. No one has agreed to transfer dental health to the municipalities. During the consultation on the primary health notification, all organisations agreed – unisontly – that there were no professional arguments or other arguments for transferring the public dental offer to the municipalities. On the contrary, they felt that this would weaken the public dental offer. I also have a background as a county politician from Hordaland and have been closely involved in ensuring the quality and accessibility of the public dental service. It's a challenge to ensure equivalent offers, especially in a state like Hordaland with large geographical distances. But we have succeeded, also in finding creative solutions where private dentists can combine their position with public dentistry and through it also get to participate in larger trade unions. The same applies to specialised treatment, with specialists who have fixed days, such as women's quarters, where they come from Stord and one day a week, the patients who need it. With regard to regional centres of excellence, we have also contributed to improving quality. There were some concerns at the beginning, but now they have found a practical and good division of labour between the research environment and their mission, especially on the transfer of new competences – there is a lot of new research specifically linked to the discovery of abuses and care failures, and we are very pleased that they are given the opportunity to refer directly, as they had not before – but also to make good models of cooperation between hospitals and home-based services, so that we reach the groups that were addressed in the interpellation. Many challenges remain to be addressed. But what's been the success in Hordaland, as I see it, is that they've had very strong professional leadership with good county councillors. I am very uncertain whether we can get the same system when this is fragmented and spread to different municipalities. It has been absolutely essential to lift it up, so that we can make an equivalent offer anywhere. The working party doesn't see why we're going to be involved in changing something that gives so good results and that has worked so well over so long. We see no arguments either in what has been brought forward now. There is good interaction between the public service provision organised through the county municipality and the primary municipality. If you're concerned with dental care for the population, we don't recommend experimenting with what's already working. We believe that a transfer to the municipalities will weaken public dental care both in terms of quality and who it reaches. In particular, we fear that this will reduce the supply in the districts and that they will be particularly poor. I'm sorry to say that, but the Workers' Party feels that unfortunately this is a result of desperate search for areas to be transferred to the municipalities. The Labour Party is positive about looking at new tasks in municipalities, but perhaps in core areas and areas where we have evidence of them should be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e166	The government, which we are now talking about, proposes that the responsibility for dental care should be transferred to the municipalities in the big news about the municipal reform. Public dental services are offered mainly to children, young people, mentally retarded, elderly and disabled. These go to school, receive healthcare from municipalities, and municipalities know the needs of their citizens well. Something worn out is often said that the teeth are part of the body. We see in this case the relationship between primary dental care and the primary health service for the rest. It is then better for citizens that the municipality, which provides other basic health services, is also given responsibility for dental care. The representative Grung was in a fear in the Workers' Party that one would not be able to perform a professional good service if this became municipal. However, there may be grounds for recalling that the local authorities and the general medical services are currently managed through the municipalities, the local authorities have an agreement with the municipalities, and it is the local authority that has the overall responsibility. I therefore wonder whether the Workers' Party has the same concern about the state of the Norwegian general medical service. There are several examples I can use to point out why it might make sense to go towards a municipal dental service. An example is those who need two or more healthcare services over time. They have individual requirements that coordinate and adapt the offer. It is easier to provide an adapted and coordinated offer to these citizens if the municipality is also responsible for dental care. Another example: Dentists are important contributors in detecting care failure. This is usually followed up by municipal child protection. A third example: at the latest today, we can read in today’s Medicine about a study that shows that dentists vary in reference to patients with suspected eating disorders, which in the first instance tends to be followed up by health care nurses or regulars. A fourth example: Russ users receive most of their services from municipalities. Dental health is often a major challenge for these patients. A fifth example, on which the representative, Mr Kjeseth, was concerned: we are seeing today a great influx of asylum seekers and other refugee groups. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility to follow up their health care needs. All this and more talk so that dental services should be more closely woven together with other community health services. Today, the county shall ensure that dental services are available to the whole population and provide the necessary dental care to persons with legal rights. About 1.4 million people in Norway have rights under the Dental Services Act, mainly children and young people, mentally debilitated, elderly and disabled in institutions and home care. It is important to point out that there are no changes in who has rights. After the transfer, the municipality must ensure the necessary dental care and provide regular dental care to persons with rights under the law. The dental service shall be as competent as it is today. In my home country, Tannheels Rogaland has done an important job in bringing together clinics in larger units with a stronger professional environment. In the largest cities, such as Stavanger and Haugesund, there are large and modern clinics that provide citizens with a wider and better offer. Such clinics are part of the future along with larger and more robust municipalities. The counties have jointly established six regional odontological centres of excellence. These are really starting to show their justification. The dentists in county clinics have much better access to up-to-date skills, they can host centres of excellence, and dental clinics are involved in research. The transfer of these centres of excellence to larger municipalities will involve the administration of municipalities to the research environment, where interdisciplinary research is to be carried out in cooperation with the relevant academic community in the municipalities. The Minister for Health stated in his statement that the ambition is that the centres of competence should be fully developed on the day of the transfer of responsibility for dental care to the municipalities. Good dental health is linked to the rest of public health, and therefore good contact between dental services and the rest of the healthcare system needs to be facilitated. Dental services play an important, health-promoting and preventive role, and it is essential that this service be integrated with the other municipal health and care services. The intention of the municipal reform is to establish professional units with stable staffing, a high level of competence and extensive experience. It is a reform to ensure good welfare services where people live, both now and in the future. With the reform of municipalities, municipalities could be better equipped to provide high-quality services and to recruit highly skilled professionals. We want municipalities to become even more attractive employers. Providing the municipalities with responsibility for more specialised services than today will contribute to it. Finally, it is timely to point out that we see fewer and larger municipalities precisely because they should be able to meet their citizens' needs for services in a good way. If we fail to do this, healthcare will in the future have far greater challenges than moving dental services from one level of administration to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e194	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Kjeseth, for raising a case on an important issue. The municipalities already have a care-for-responsibilities through the interaction reform. By bringing together general and specialist dentistry services in larger and more robust municipalities, a good basis for good and necessary interaction is laid, and another thing comes into place in connection with the desire to create the patient’s healthcare. Overall, the service is strengthened professionally, which will clearly provide better opportunities for its citizens. People with extensive and complex service needs will also be better served with the overall range of dental care at a single location and at the same level of administration. A key objective of the community reform is to achieve better services closer to where people live. The transfer of dental services from county to municipality is part of this work. About 1.4 million residents have rights under the dental law, as the representative of Stensland also pointed out in his statement. This can be older in hospitals, people with physical and mental disabilities and long-term illness with home care, to name a few. There will always be a discussion about who should be covered by the right to free dental care. Those covered by it shall have the right to make out-of-court and regular offers, either by way of access to them or vice versa. That right is not changed by a new service structure. The dentists and dentists will still come to the nursing home. When the dental service becomes the responsibility of municipalities, it will be limited to persons with legal rights. What the government now proposes through the municipal reform was not considered as topical or appropriate by the red-green government. I hope that they are happy that today's government has already strengthened the dental offer to vulnerable groups, such as those who have not. drug users and people with mental health problems. The primary health service message outlines the structure of primary health teams and follow-up teams. Follow-up teams are for users with complex needs. These must relate and cooperate with the competences necessary for each user. Dentists and dentists will be able to join such follow-up teams where necessary and dental care should be at least as competent as today. Some claim that small municipalities do not employ specialists for specific reasons. Then our answer is that they will be able to cooperate with other municipalities or purchase services from private providers. According to the law on dental care, many groups are entitled to necessary dental care, but most adults over 20 years of age do not have rights under this law and have to pay their own costs for dental treatment. I therefore assume that the interpellant aims at people with extensive care needs and people who live mainly in institutions, for example. elderly or disabled people, residents who are unable to move for their own convenience or others who, for various reasons, do not have the ability to contact the dental services of their own machinery. The Dental Association has naturally engaged itself in this matter and addressed relevant professional issues. It is reassuring to assure them that the government will find good solutions to the interaction between the general dentistry clinics and the regional odontological centres of excellence. The six centres of excellence start to demonstrate their merit and are important for future research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e209	The Central Party believes that it must be an objective of the reorganisation of the public sector to create better and more efficient public health provision. It's such a purpose. The public dentistry service is, as the interpellant says, a success story. The Norwegian dental model has produced very good results, a good recruiter and provides a good supply, and there is no urgent need to change this organisation. That's also why the Center Party has opposed what the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed to, namely, move the public dental services from the county to the municipality. The fact that the Left is now critical of what they themselves have provided for plurality is at best evidence of political courage, but I think it is regrettable that they did not address the concerns that arise today, of the quality of the supply in the future, when the Stortinge treats Report. St. 14 for 2014–2015, Municipal Reform – new tasks for larger municipalities. The centre party therefore believes that the county council should be responsible for dental services because it works. And if one had moved it over, it would have been responsible that one had done this more thoroughly before one decided it, and not like now – to sort it out afterwards. The Norwegian Dental Association has made clear to the Committee that one is concerned that the provision of dental care to those patients who are most in need is being harmed by such a transfer, and they have asked for an explanation of the consequences before finally adopting such a major change. They suggest that the consequences may be that a person is at risk of building up today's well-functioning dental environment, that the equivalency of supply and services is not taken care of, and that funding and quality of services may vary considerably. I see that the government itself is writing in the Report. St. 14 on the municipal reform that a transfer of responsibility for dental services will result in many municipalities having to cooperate with other municipalities on the availability of services. It's obvious, but it's a little funny, I thought, for this same government strongly argues against inter-municipal cooperation in other areas. It's actually a basis for making the entire proposition. I also agree with what the interpellant and the Council of State said, that the supply of the oldest, crippled elderly, both in hospitals and in residential areas, can be improved. This is a patient group that according to dental care has rights today, and that doesn't get it, and we have to change that, but I don't see that a transfer to the municipality should automatically be a guarantee that all patient groups get their rights. And we look at the supply of the elderly today – in hospitals and in the homes of the community: Fastlegene is a municipal responsibility, but the medical coverage of hospitals is very low, and it is not often a go-home visit. It shows that this is about rental and not necessarily that we also have to transfer the dental materials to the municipality. We need to increase cooperation, but all of the copies that have been used, that dental can detect various abuses, eating disorders, etc. – it’s very important, and I have great faith that the dentists need to get better cooperation, but then we don’t have to start destroying the dental environment that has been worked out over the years. Finally, on the transfer of not only general dental care, but also the transfer of specialist dental services, and on how the municipality should handle this is described in a very thin way in the message. Municipalities which have not appointed their own specialists, or which do not have regional odontological centres of excellence, must once again cooperate with other municipalities on such services, and this should therefore be further elaborated. I want to say that there's a lot of work that needs to be done just to be able to maintain today's quality, and that's a very low goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e228	To the representatives Kjersti Toppe and the Workers' Party Ruth Grung: There is no rematch about the municipal reform we invite to. There is a discussion mainly about the specialised part of the service. In the left, we're always looking for opportunities and improvements. I have not recorded that the Centre Party has discussed using dental experience to make changes to the municipal care services in general and that there is something to learn from the fact that we have organised dental services at county level. I think it's constructive to go into such a search and also include such a sector that has succeeded in many areas, into how we can improve primary health services. So we keep seeing the scenario here. New municipalities will provide new opportunities. Then we have over many years in the Storting, and centrally, maybe not overly concerned with vision, hearing and teeth -- basic senses and important functions to get nourished. But they have to find their function in the interaction between the individual and the professional community, where the money has been no constraint, mainly. That's the way it's going to be in dental care. Here the large part will take place in the private sector. We also need new regions, and the left wants to talk a lot about them. Also there we see new possibilities, and it could be that parts of this have to find their function there. The example of Trøndelag was to show that a dynamic is now taking place at the intermediate level of the public sector. We are also going to discuss the reorganization of specialist health services, where we are either going to wind up regional health businesses or move them to the new regions – except university hospitals. This stretched between the Center Party and the Workers' Party on the one hand, which sees no need to make any changes, and the Right Party and the Advance Party, which primarily want larger municipalities and not a county municipality, is a discussion we would very much like to have. We see here the possibilities. Then to the regional centres of excellence. I am very pleased that the Council of State underlines so clearly that they should be in place. It sounds like an additional effort and construction, and that's where we have to get that dynamic to work – recruiting professionals, but also researching more, and also approaching new residents in a new way. There are many with very serious traumas, which have been attacked and come from other cultures – also the interaction that needs to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e243	I thank you for the discussion. I believe it is important to have an open and good discussion about how to transfer the dental service to the municipalities. Here it is absolutely right, and there are several issues that need to be addressed, on the basis of the principle decision to which we have joined the Stortinget through the wholesale treatment of the municipal reform. Then we will come back with the actual transfer in connection with the reform. I am a little surprised when the Workers' Party says that they are to transfer tasks from county and state to municipalities, but that it should be in the core areas of the municipalities. I have problems finding something that is more at the heart of local authorities than dental services. It can at least not be a core area of the county, which is currently largely responsible for public transport and secondary schools, and has no responsibility for other health services in our society. Then I would like to remind you of who it is that today has rights under the Dental Services Act. It is children and young people up to 20 years of age, it is mentally retarded, it is people at home or in other health care institutions, it is people who receive home care and who have high dental needs due to illness or injury. What are all of these in common? Well, it's that they get extensive services from the municipality. I think it is a very good idea – and it is also the whole idea in the primary health report that Stortinget is currently undergoing treatment – that we think that those who need large and comprehensive health services from the municipality get this best possible through integrated teams that can work together, such as those who need large and comprehensive health services from the municipality. has access to the same type of information, or belongs to the same level of decision-making. Based on what creates the patient's healthcare, I think the dentists have more in common with the home nurses and the manager than they have with the bus driver. I think there are a lot of people who agree with us. If it was that the success story of the Norwegian dental service was due to the fact that it was the county municipality that was responsible, a trip should take you to Denmark and Finland. Then one could compare the results there and see that they have a dental service that is very similar to the Norwegian in terms of results, but where the municipalities are responsible for the service. It tells me that it is perhaps more that the model we have used in the nuclear solution here – with a strong public dental service that prioritises important groups, but where some of us who just need to take care of their teeth, largely do so in the private part – is a model that works well in the Nordic countries, regardless of who is responsible at the administrative level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e257	So the debate is on case No. 1 a.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e273	I want to start with a quote from Arne Johannessen, former leader of the Joint Police Association: ‘What has surprised me most in all the years as top-notch is the lack of culture for open debate, reflections, criticism, willingness to listen to counter-arguments and not least the lack of willingness to learn.’ He writes that in the book Police Management, edited by Rune Glomseth and Stig Johannessen, who was released earlier this year. It's serious things he's seen in. He also shares some examples from his own life, among others. about when, as a young police student, he wrote a critical reading article and was soon forced to work at the Loppa County Office in Finnmark in his year of duty, while he was told that «this is what you have asked for yourself, Johannessen». This is the second interpellation on the Stortinget about arrests, culture and leadership in the police. I had a corresponding last year and already announced that it would be an annual invitation. The background for the interpellation is the main criticism of the Gjørv Commission that stallions, culture, and leadership were the differences between what went well and what went bad. Master student Marianne Njå Viste at the University of Stavanger has written what she calls "A study of the 22nd July Commission's diagnosis of the culture of the police and the police directorate's attempt to cure it". She concludes, among other things: with: ‘Since Gjørv has pointed out that the diagnosis concerns the whole public sector, it could be interesting and looked at how public organisations should be organised and managed in the future.’ I agree with that. There's nothing strange about the police that achievements are linked to culture and leadership – that's for all jobs. The conclusion of the Gjørv Commission was not just about the police, but about the whole value chain, all the way up to the ministry. At the same time, even interpellation debates require a delineation. When I then limit the debate to relations in and at the police, there are three reasons for this: Firstly, it is to take political co-responsibility for the situation. It cannot continue to be such that the police will stand alone with the criticism when culture and leadership are on the agenda. We must be co-responsors with them. At that time, the central work on culture and leadership must also be politically anchored. Secondly, it is about driving the discussion a little further, for each time, to show that even if no one can adopt culture, one can, through a series of actions and participation from the addition and the leaders themselves, help to change cultures over time. Thirdly, the police are a very special institution. It is the only one that can use power in peacetime. Then questions about culture and leadership are particularly important because they influence police behaviour or power use, both in everyday life and in extreme situations. The cultural perspective is not much referred to in Norwegian police research, but Liv Finstad is concerned with something of the theme associated with culture in the book Politikblicket from 2000, and Stig Johannessen wrote the book Politikkultur in 2013. A few examples are available — in addition to fresher and good masters’ assignments from students on culture or police leadership. When this interpellation is specifically directed towards a culture of openness and a path that builds up under it, it acts, among other things. on a series of individual pistols pointing to the need to work more systematically with this. An example is the Sønderland report after 22 July 2011. The concluded diametrically opposite of the Gjørv Commission. The Sønderland report was the etat's own report, and he went far into finding that things could not have been done better. The Gjørv Commission had the outside look and showed that there was a lot that should have been better solved. Another example is Monika-saka from Hordaland Police District, where one first assumed that an eight-year-old girl who was found dead had committed suicide, and where a notification, police investigator Robin Schaefer, had not been serious about challenging the investigation, the evidence assessments and the conclusion. After the lawyer company Wiersholm had examined the employer's handling of Schaefer, police director Odd Reidar Humlegård said: ‘I would like to work to create a culture where there is openness to say about all types of matters that are critical, whether it is political practices that are not followed or other critical issues addressed to internal working conditions.’ A third and more systemic example is one of the findings of the diffi report published in 2013: «Relatively, many also characterise police culture as conservative – at good and bad. In addition, some suggest that police culture may appear to be ‘say itself enough’ and also a little ‘self-righteous’, which may turn out to be a discharge — others have ‘guilty’. This, together with weak culture for criticism, nor constructive criticism, is seen as key challenges that it is important to take seriously in order to bring about change.’ What these documents don't take into account, but as relevant, we can call it partner culture. When the Police College had a trade day on police culture last year, it pointed out, among other things. Policemaster in East Finland, Ellen Katrine Deze, explained this, so that one stands burdened and burst with his partner, one may be closer to his partner than the family, and that one wants to be loyal to the person concerned. For my own account, I would like to add that it is not that hard to understand. Policemen can come in situations where their partner's loyalty is what can be the difference between life and death. Stop pointing this day at the fact that partner culture has positive and negative aspects. The positive thing is that loyalty creates security. The negative is, among other things, that it may weaken openness and that reports of unwanted events do not come. We don't have an own expression of this in Norwegian, but in English it's called blue code of Silence, and it's much mentioned in scientific literature, for example. by criminologist Louise Westmarland in the article Police Ethics and Integrity: Breaking the Blue Code of Silence. Of course, the American police cannot be compared to Norwegian because both educational courses, recruitment and probably also behaviors are quite different. So it would be useful if we did more research on this in Norway too. We know too little if it exists, in which case the effects it has, and if it helps to put a damper on the necessary openness and reflection. In any case, the lecture to the police chief can invite the Danger of partner culture to take a discussion about what is good and bad partner culture. When the Special Unit treats approx. 1,200 messages and the part messages that lead to criminal reactions, have a doctor between 3 and 8 pst., of course, there can be good reasons for that. But resisting a qualified impression of bounded openness and willingness to learn is also something that the police risk asking the general public about. This may mean that the work of a culture of greater openness is a priority for both the police’s task-solving, learning and reputation. In the process of police reform, culture and leadership were one of three particularly important issues for the Labour Party to address. There we felt that the proposal from the government was weak – it had little concrete content about culture and leadership, only two very clever pages of honorary words, and it was in spite of the fact that it should have our main answer when it was the main criticism from the Gjørv Commission. We therefore made 16 concrete proposals for action, which we developed together with organisations and professionals from the field. I am pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party participated in the police reform agreement, so that it can now be followed up. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Justice's reflections and any new, independent initiative for the work on greater openness in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e344	Let me first thank the representative Tajik for her commitment to management, culture and attitudes. It's very nice that the Storting in this way gets the opportunity to discuss this at regular intervals. It gives both the representative Tajik and other members of the Stortinget the opportunity to give concrete input to actions that they believe should be more focused on. I would also like to stress that I very much agree with what Tajik said, related to taking co-responsibility, trying to play each other good in a very, very important and complicated area. The work of management, culture and attitudes shall not be of a capillary nature. Nor is it the number of initiatives to make changes that may be a relevant measurement parameter as to whether there will be better management and change in culture and attitudes. I would, as I also did last, stress that the starting point for the discussion on management, culture and attitudes does not unexpectedly often get a very negative impression. I don't think the interpellant's posts are marked. I also think it is important to stress that every single day there is a lot of good management in the Norwegian police at all stages, because there is generally a good police service provided. The attitudes of employees are good, and they do a conscientious and good job. However, as in all organisations, there is potential for improvement and management challenges, and it is important to follow up the clear findings made in previous evaluation and review reports. Police shall be an active and creative body, where responsibility and leadership characterise all, from the bottom to the top, from the service on the patrol up to the police director's leadership group. Good management shall be ensured where the tasks are to be addressed, and it shall be guided by the focus on transparency, learning and development of a constantly changing society. It is the Stortinge that lays the framework conditions for police activity, and both magnificence and government must exercise leadership by being clear in the expectations of the police. In this context, I refer to the new target structure proposed by the government last year, which was endorsed by Storting. We have now also opened the way for professionals other than those with a police background or legal background to be police officers. Management is a quality that must be emphasised as an important competence for the appointment of police officers. It's important to get police impulses from other management cultures. The management focus shall permeate the entire police operation from bottom to top. It is now also followed up by the Police College in the management training and in the lead follow-up to the Police Directorate. We are also in the process of making one of the biggest changes in police history. In the next few years, we're going to build an even better and more modern police force, which works even more efficiently, and which is equipped to face the crime of the future, and which creates security where people live and travel most. We want a more consistent police force, so that we can be sure that we get about the same police services across the country. I am very pleased with the support given to the near-police reform, and I believe that it has shown good political leadership, from both the position and the opposition, to put in place a broad and good majority for the reform in this Chamber. The attitude of the Judicial Committee following the work on the reform of the police presents a number of concrete points that we are following up. One important action is to carry out an interim evaluation of police management, culture and attitudes in 2017. The implementation of the near-police reform shall reinforce and further develop an organisational culture in the police that supports the establishment during its social missions. Police shall gather on common values, a common identity. In order to achieve this, it is essential that management works and has an effect in the extremes towards the audience. First line managers shall be responsible for the achievement of results among their employees. This leadership group will therefore become a priority group in the work on leadership development in the future. A number of measures have been put in place to create common management practices, better management and development towards the desired management culture. New uniform skills requirements for the recruitment of police officers have been further developed. Competence requirements for Level 2 managers are now under preparation and an introduction programme will be launched for new managers. Leader group development and development of first-line management will also be launched in the new police districts. With effect from 1 January 2016, a new national leadership group shall be set up, including all police officers. The aim is to develop a college of supervisors responsible for the whole of the establishment and ensuring that the objective of a single police is pursued in the new districts. This is also important to ensure police as a learning organisation. The HR function, which plays a major role in this development, will be established at the strategic level in the police districts. As previously pointed out, the Police Directorate has developed a staff platform based on core values and further developed the team’s tools and processes for employee interviews, which is an important leadership task, and where it is important to link each individual’s tasks, work plan and development more clearly to the police’s future needs for problem solving and competence. The staff platform and its related training activities provide a structured platform for discussion of different topics, typically related to well-being, the work environment, management, etc. The staff platform is also integrated into police recruitment processes. The implementation of the Ethics Director of the Police Directorate is now under way and ethical guidelines for the police are to be developed. It will provide a common set of rules and common guidelines on good ethics and good police behaviour. The processes around their deployment will raise awareness of the values and ethical standards of the establishment and provide good guidance for its management. I am also in the process of the next step of a comprehensive organisational development process in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It shall include, inter alia: contribute to strengthening our ability to ensure good governance and interaction across, internal and external. I have intensified the governance dialogue and continue to work through several direct meetings between the top political management and the senior executives, including the police director. It contributes to anchoring and short decision-making lines where necessary. I have also set up a working group with the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Police Directorate to identify and recommend improvement points related to roles, responsibilities and cooperation patterns between the Department and the Directorate. The aim is to further develop the Ministry's strategic management of the Police Directorate, to improve the Police Directorate's capacity to play its role and to facilitate the Police Directorate's efforts to lead and develop the Police and LEN's seat effectively. The Working Group's recommendation is just presented to the Department and the Directorate, and we're going to work on it. Interpellant rightly asks for a culture for more transparency about critical episodes and how it can be easier to say from here before the problem becomes too big. I think it's done a lot of good work in that area. I myself spend a lot of time on management, culture and attitudes and the need for transparency when I attend and meet the police in different contexts. Among other things, I have was the topic of police chiefs' meetings that I have attended, and was very clear on my expectations of the behaviour of police officers and the follow-up to transparency, culture and attitudes. I also do so in a number of other relevant contexts where I meet the police and, to the extent, the police union members with management responsibility. There are some people who have thought that there is a culture of fear in the police, or a culture that prevents employees from telling us about critical circumstances. It can be expressed in many ways, and in my view it is a major challenge if it is still the case in the police, as we are, for example. have seen in some of the examples that the representative Tajik was in, where, for example: referred to a case in Hordaland, where it has obviously been difficult to say from behind, difficult to get through when one says from there, and where there has been an attitude that says that one does not want to be seen in the cards. I think it's an expression of a culture that's unsustainable. A learning organisation is totally dependent on people actually daring to say from it, that it's an arena to say from it, that it's rewarded to say from it, and that it's not being punished. There's probably still a way to go. But it's also a challenge with that perspective, because there's nothing you can decide. One can't adopt a culture of transparency, one can't decide that it's going to be okay to say from now on, but one can talk about it and work with it every single day in leadership talks and in the work done at all levels of the police, and that will be an important contribution to ensuring a better culture of transparency. I think the police need to evolve to become an organisation that stimulates disagreement, stimulates it to say so, and is also an organisation where decisions are accepted when they are made. It is also an important part of a culture of transparency that one after having had these rounds, and having been open about processes, etc., must land and move on in a certain direction. I am absolutely convinced that the arena we are now in is important to stimulate other sections of the police to see that management discussions are anchored to the top in Norwegian democracy, and therefore I would like to say once again that I appreciate this occasion, which the interpellant gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e390	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for attending on this topic. I thought the Minister of Justice was doing well for the police reform, its contents and a number of initiatives that are known. Part of it is also political common good because it was designed at Stortinget and is taken further by the ministry after its decision. Some of the things that were partly new, and that were about the Minister of Justice's own initiative, were about how to act, for example. at the police leadership meeting — that one also takes it up is clear when it concerns the expectations of the police leaders and is clear when it relates to that type of expectations also in response to the organisations in the field. I thought that was very good. At the same time, I miss the systematics of it, and that's what I'm asking for, because one can talk and talk about it, but if one doesn't at the same time anchor it and has a systematics and direction, one necessarily doesn't see the result of what's being said either. Well, at least we know what we're talking about. I'd rather have seen you make a big message about culture and leadership, especially in connection with the police reform. It would give the work an envelope, a direction and a concrete statement that would have been very good for the further work. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that it is difficult to measure the work associated with culture and leadership. Obviously, if a completely hypothetical would have created a video about how nice one is, it would have been difficult to have with everything one has done when it comes to culture and leadership, because it's hard to explain it in a clear way. I also noted that the Minister of Justice was clear that he did not want the skipper in this field, that he wanted continuity. I'm not quite sure what was in it, but to the extent that it was meant to be critical of the proposals that came from the Labour Party in connection with the police reform, I can assure him that we systematically had a lot of contact with the field over time in the preparation of those proposals. There are some assessments in the Minister of Justice, but I feel that there is not so much professional anchoring – I do not. I note that in the debate that goes hand in hand with, for example. Weapon, there are many who are very clear that there must be a listener to the police department and the police professional arguments. Then it's a little surprising, in the blink of an eye, a talk about culture and leadership in the police, that trades don't weigh as heavily. For example, where are they? the organisational profession in the thinking and practice of the Minister of Justice? Where's the leadership department, and where's the police department? I would like to invite the Minister of Justice to tell you more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e403	It is difficult, of course, to explain initiatives that are not known, because very often it is important to get initiatives that have been taken, and to make a video to help reach new groups with important information about the excellent work the government is doing. However, care must be taken to comply with privacy regulations, etc., so that you do not get in the lift afterwards. I think it's important that we disseminate information about the work we're actually doing in terms of management, culture and attitudes in the police, and not just in the police, but also outside, but especially in the police, of course. Behind everything they do, there is, of course, a professional assessment to the extent that there are subjects, but as the interpellant himself did quite well, there is too little knowledge of some aspects of police management. There are now several books and reports that can be used in this context, and this will, of course, be the basis for further work both on the part of the Department and on the part of the Directorate. I have a systematic follow-up in my governance dialogue with the Police Directorate on management, culture and attitudes. An initiative that I think may be important to emphasise is an example of the follow-up to that kind of dialogue, namely that the Police Directorate sent a letter from the police director himself, entitled «Do you say from here?» The whole starting point of the letter was a call to say from here, to warn about critical issues in the police. In this way, the governance dialogue is also followed up by the police director and further down into the police. I think that's important. There's a pretty strong systematic in the follow-up of this. The Police Directorate has its systematic follow-up to the work on culture, management and attitudes. I have it in my relationship with the police director, who has regular meetings in addition to the ordinary management dialogue meetings at the level of office. I don't think that's a basis for believing that it's not a systematic follow-up of that work, but it's a tough thing to be able to say: now we've implemented these measures, and it's given these results. The work on culture, attitudes and management will produce results over time, and it is impossible to have a counter-ground follow-up. Then, as I mentioned, I am pleased that we get this opportunity. My post was not meant as any criticism of the proposals of the Workers' Party. Rather, on the contrary, I think it is good for the Labour Party to make proposals in this area. I think it is good that the conclusions of the Stortinget were as they were when it came to the near-police reform. It was more a finding that work on better management and change in culture and attitudes requires endurance, not shippers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e416	First of all, I would like to thank the head of the Justice Committee, Hadia Tajik, for her second consecutive year of taking up the leadership and culture of the police for a broad discussion here in Stortinget through an inter-pelling debate. The Government of Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016 that work on attitudes, culture and management is an important part of the close police reform. Later, under the heading. 7.2 on page 103, it is stated that good leadership at all stages is a prerequisite for resolving the societal challenge and that a number of management-oriented activities are planned, organised during the near-police reform. Among other things, there is talk of tailor-made development programmes to ensure optimal start-up and achievement in the new police districts. ‘Job analysis shall contribute to the recruitment of good managers’, it says among other things. As I have heard, the department has not yet seen any of that kind of activity. Is it, then, to understand that the police are going to take these measures on their own in each police district, or is it the political leadership and the POD that are going to initiate these activities in the outermost regions? Furthermore, the proposition states that it is critical to ensure that management is effective and effective at the extreme. First line managers are therefore a priority group in terms of police leadership development in 2016. Actions targeting this group are listed in the Proposition as strategically important to ensure that the competences provided by newly educated students are maintained and benefited by the police. Hopefully, it's also about interdisciplinary police education, it's about putting values and ethics on the agenda, and of course it's also about openness, loyalty and warning. It's not like the police just feel that there's close loyalty between the employees. We also see it in health services – and in other agencies – that loyalty is great. That's why it's important to put values on the agenda, good leadership, and that there's openness to notify things that aren't as they should be. If this is critical, should not activities already be well known to the establishment? In my clear opinion, if this activity is to be undertaken in 2016, it should have already been planned and an implementation plan should have been announced. But that's not the case, my acquaintance. It is also about political leadership in how this will be done in the future. The Police Directorate and the new police districts have already started governance dialogues with a view to planning activities in 2016. Activities towards senior management are not mentioned in the governance dialogue agenda, nor are management, culture and attitudes included in the agenda. It would have been a great advantage if this had become part of the dialogue, as there is in the dialogue an agreement on objectives and how resources should be deployed. The objectives and measurement criteria in the field of management, as the proposition points out, and as the Storting has previously pointed out, are also not part of the agenda of the governance dialogue. The good work that has been done in the past in Stortinget, where the area of culture, attitudes and police management is devoted a lot of time, has not yet materialised in activity in the building. The important thing to focus on in the short term is to build up a change strategy where leadership in the change process in the police districts is ongoing. The strategy must take account of the fact that change is taking place in each member of staff working in the police department and that change is not something that can be adopted by means of an organisational chart. Leader behaviour must be the focus of change work, and account must be taken of the performance side of change as well as the human side of change. Leaders must be given the space and opportunity to prioritize work on change processes and there must be a recognition from the political leadership that maintaining performance requirements at the same time as top quality of change processes can be challenging. This will lead leaders into a skewer, among others. could lead to a risk of failure of the reform. Changes take time, and all experience suggests that it is wise to accept a certain decrease in production in the most intensive part of the change process, but that the quality is still at the top of all stages. Good leadership is that as elected representatives, we underline and support the good work done by the police and other agencies in everyday life. We need to support the work in order to achieve the good processes that this would require in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e442	Thank you for this good opportunity to discuss management, culture and attitudes in the police — an important topic. Thanks also to the Council of State for a good presentation and description of both the government that the college does, and of what the Council of State does from its position in particular. It shows that it is working widely to meet the criticism – which was justified – of the Gjørv Commission in its time. At the same time, I would also like to stress that the police themselves as a body discharge this responsibility in a good way. The police are, as many people have been, the power apparatus of civil society, it is the authority that manages the monopoly of power in peacetime in a country. That is why it is important – I would say it is absolutely essential – that there is also a body of clear democratic control in the form of laws, regulations, budgets, etc., while, as elected representatives, we provide the necessary room for action within the framework of which the police are to carry out their most important social mission. That's the background I think it's important to debate culture, leadership and attitudes in the police. I am also very pleased that the Stortinge with a broad majority adopted the near-police reform that is just taking up and putting this into a larger picture. We have previously – including when we adopted and dealt with the reform of the police, and also in this interpellation debate – recorded that some are counting sides of the original proposition. I would say, and I would repeat, that the near-police reform, as it came from the government, is permeated by the government's genuine commitment to facilitating better management, better culture and better attitudes in the police – over 100 pages. It gives the police a room for action within those frameworks in order to exercise their professional leadership under the principle of freedom under responsibility. It's absolutely essential. We cannot do the job for the police, but we can arrange for them to do the best they can. I'm very pleased that the Storting, with a broad majority, joined the government's approach in this field. No management may be adopted. The role of size is to facilitate better management of the establishment. We have done so with the reform of the police, and in addition, the important role of the Storting is to evaluate the results of the reform we have adopted. It has also been clear to the Stortinget that we should do so in the decision on the reform of the police, and I look forward to that. Expectations are high for results – results in a wide range of tasks to be carried out by the police. I am also very pleased that, after the change of government, we have been given a solid boost to security and the work for security in society, which is just part of the work on the near-police reform, by having received over 1,000 new posts in the police after the government change. Police coverage is increasing, investigation and prosecution have been strengthened both as a body and as a subject. It is clear that this needs to be incorporated into a framework in which management, culture and attitudes are to permeate an ever-increasing professional organisation with an important societal mission. The government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e455	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising this important issue again. It's great that this theme has been followed up last year. Unfortunately, we see that there are relatively often individual cases that are unlucky for the verdict of the police. Openness is important for trust. Trust is an important key to being able to talk about a good relationship between the citizens and the Norwegian police. When unwanted incidents and events occur, it is important that the police do not cover up, but that they try to get to the bottom of what has happened. We've had a lot of wetshots in the last year. It has been shown that they have not been reported as intended. This creates noise and uncertainty and can lead to an idea that there is an unculture. It is good that better reporting procedures have been put in place. A major reform work is now underway after the adoption by the Stortinget of the new police reform in June this year. We politicians have been given solid presentations that the problem of leadership and culture in the police case has been important. Thinking that establishing fewer and larger units will solve the problems you've pointed out with leadership and culture is at best naive. There is focused work over time to change this. Thoughts and practices need to be changed, not just by moving boxes and drawing new business maps. Things have to change at many levels, but the leaders of the police have to lead as a good example. This means that leaders must be qualified to be leaders, and that there must also be more female leaders into a human-dominated environment. It also means that one at all levels of the leader is able to recognize errors and is missing. One of the success criteria, as I see it, is that one has to make sure the police aren't too heavy. A good leadership culture requires clear lines and clear responsibilities, but also a good space for initiative and action. Following the tragic events of 22 July 2011, each police district has implemented its own change programme. My impression is that very many people have done a thorough and good job in this area. That means that in many areas, we probably have a rather different police force today than what we had in 2011. We elected people can't direct the police or the leaders of the police, but we can have opinions about and make visible demands for the police leadership. We can emphasize that the course and documented change program are well and good, but the most important thing is that there is actually a positive change. Then I can borrow words from former police officer Hanne Kristin Rohde. This is the selection from an article it wrote last year: ‘It’s not going to be sent to management modules at Police College, or to take masters in management at BI, if you come back to work and continue as before.’ Maybe we'll have to see if the leader's program in charge of the Police College today is good enough. Have we chosen to bet on this adequately? Some of what the Minister of Justice said in his main speech showed positive moves to ensure real change. I hope the work continues and is strengthened. We're going to meet another time. There is a need for a different leadership in the police today than was usual in the 1980s. There are completely different requirements both internally and externally. It's all right, but if it's right that the requirement for new police officers to have at least a master's degree, I'm more uncertain about it. I want to stress that we need brave, independent leaders. We need leaders who dare to tell us and describe what the situation really is – without fear that it may have consequences for their careers or for the extension of their goals. Finally, I am pleased that the Stortinget is taking this debate. Good police services are not just a question about the number of units – there is also a question about who we saw to hire them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e482	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a topic of great importance to the further development of the police. Better management and a stronger management culture is now one of the main objectives in the field of justice and preparedness. Leadership, culture and attitudes in the police and structural prerequisites for achieving this were important issues in the Gjørv Commission report, in the police analysis and not least in the near-police reform. This reform is about enabling the police to provide better services. The Ministry has been clear that a prerequisite for achieving this is a strengthening of management, culture and attitudes. The Judicial Committee has also highlighted the need to improve management, culture and attitudes as a priority in the area of close police reform. In doing so, the majority of the Committee has asked the government to follow up on a number of concrete actions. The interpellant specifically addresses the creation of a culture of openness around critical episodes. Openness both externally to the outside world and internally in the police action is of great importance in improving police services. Openness to the outside world is important for people's trust in the police. The police exercise power, and openness and the exercise of power are fundamental in a democracy. Transparency of the work and the results it provides provides a basis for societal debate on how the police operate, and it provides citizens with a basis for democratic influence so that services are best adapted to the needs. It's a force for the police that many are following what the police are doing, and how the police are doing their job. Transparency of work in-house is also important for the police to be a learning organisation, on the basis of which the police should be involved in the treatment of police reform. A learning organisation has a culture, systems and leadership that motivates employees to learn from their actions, share what they learn, share with others, and use what they have learned to solve the problems even better. Police must be good at learning from events and using knowledge in the further development of the establishment. Because that's how we unfortunately don't get away with that there may be mistakes in a place where people work with people, or where tasks could be solved even better. It is therefore important that the police are good at learning from faults, so that they do not happen again, as faults here may have major consequences for those affected. It presupposes transparency about errors and a culture where errors are not hidden, but are discussed openly to learn from them. Such a culture must be worked for at all levels of the police. Transparency is important not only about critical episodes, but also about everything that actually goes well. Testing is not just about learning from errors, it is also about learning from what turns out to be working well. It is therefore important to have good mechanisms for exchange of experience within the police that provide opportunities for continuous improvement work and for inter-departmental learning through the sharing of best practices. becoming a more learning organisation is something that works not only within the police but also within private businesses and other public services. One example of this is the health care system, where patient safety is being strengthened by creating a culture of transparency to learn from things that go wrong. In the work now being done with police management, culture and attitudes, it is also important that the police learn from the work and best practices of others in this area. In conclusion, I would like to point out that during the examination of the police reform, a unanimous increase asked the Department to carry out an interim evaluation in 2017 of the work on the management, culture and attitudes of the police and to report the results back to Stortinget. This evaluation will tell us something not only about what has been done, but also about the preliminary results of it. This evaluation will therefore provide important lessons for further work in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e505	A debate on culture can quickly become a little bit of a tangible debate, precisely because it is so different what each of us puts in culture. Business culture and culture have a lot of different definitions if you look at the textbooks, but if you take it down a little bit, culture can be defined as: that's how we do it with us. The way in which things were done and the way in which they were done has always been to deal with the problems that needed to be solved is culture in a nutshell. But discussing culture without discussing structure becomes a quick half-way discussion. First the human being formed the structures, and then the structures formed us, said Churchill. It also applies to the police. The county seat is 800 years old. The police department is 400 years old – the police department 14 years old. In such a regime, it goes without saying that the possibility of developing both cultures and subcultures has been present. As you know, there is a fine border between culture and culture. That's why it was so important in the Police Analysis and in Stortinget's treatment to connect culture and structure. The last police reform, police reform 2000, reduced the number of police districts from some and 50 to 27, but did nothing about the underlying structure. What happened then? Well, you acted like you've done before, and you continued in an old, used pattern. What makes it extra demanding in a state agency, and even more demanding in a state bureaucracy, which is a ministry by definition, is that these institutions, especially the departments, are actually built for control and not for change. That's why it becomes so important. Therefore, the interpellant should be praised for doing this as its annual exercise in the Storting and for having stuck to attitudes, culture and leadership in the justice sector, precisely because the resistance to change against the way we have organized this system is actually inherent. Attitudes, culture and leadership were a central point of the Gjørv Commission's report, but we should note that attitudes, culture and management were not used exclusively in the field of justice, and that what distinguished it from what did not work was exclusively about culture and attitudes in the justice sector. No, it had to do with culture, attitudes and management across the sectors and communities that were involved on 22 July, not least the health sector. Where it worked well, commissions of inquiry have pointed out that culture, attitudes and management seemed to be in better condition than in parts of the justice sector It is unusually important that the Storting sticks to this – no smoke without fire. The representative, Tajik, referred to the police officer's office in Finnmark. A former police officer in Finnmark, who has now left, came up with a book not long ago where he says that the police lack transparency culture and democratic sensitivities. It's pretty strong. It's possible it's caricature, but at least that gives the Storting reason to follow up on this question in the continuation, and we're going to do that. In addition, the Minister of Justice outlined a number of actions undertaken by the Ministry. Among other things, ethical counsellors, leadership courses, etc. Oslo police districts have been out early and have, among other things, launch of a comprehensive programme of amendments in the light of the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission. So here's a lot of work, but I want to say that almost the most central thing that's being done now is that you get the police reorganized and you get to do something about the structure. Then you can also do something about the attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e521	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the theme. My experience is from the Control Committee, and not least from the examination by the Control Committee of the report of the Gjørv Commission. I agree that a culture of transparency cannot be adopted, but transparency culture is a management responsibility, and ultimately it is a political responsibility. What the representative of the Rivers said here, that first it is structure, and then, according to structural changes, we change culture, I fundamentally disagree. It was a part of us who were afraid about the handling of the Gjørv Commission's report in Stortinget, that we should just get that order – that one should first look at structure, and then a look at organisation, culture and management. After all, the majority of the control committee, when examining the report of the Gjørv Commission, said that there was a need for a new management philosophy. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, said that they were very useful in what is the Defence's management philosophy, namely mission-based management. It's in the setting, Innst. 210 S for 2012–2013, under Chapter 3.8.1 Culture and management challenges. There we describe fairly precisely what is the benefit of mission-based management. Mission-based management is essential to implement in response organisations, where the defence is the most important in a normal situation. What is at the heart of it is to have a culture in which one escapes and makes use of the experiences and assessments of his employees, where the first line is given authority, trust and encouragement to use his or her skills, and at the same time that the people of the first line are trained, which provides security in the exercise of demanding tasks, equipment that is modern to perform the tasks, and ensure that the individual has communication with his or her flock. So, a decentralised management in line with the intent of the overall level. These are notes that are little known and much less practiced. In connection with the police reform, I did not see that there was any reference to the committee's proceedings at all. There are references to the Gjørv Commission’s report, but it is, after all, the Committee on Control — and its consideration by the Stortinge — that must be taken into account. Then we got a new case in ours, based on the National Audit Office's treatment of the Ministry of Justice and Defence's work on social security and preparedness. What was the joy there, was that there was a unanimous committee which, in its premises for the decision, to which I shall come back to, says on page 27: ‘Furthermore, the communication should deal with management, culture and attitudes. [[operational management]] It was then made special, from the Control Committee, that a decision was taken to ‘ask the Government to present a new big message on social security and preparedness during 2016’. It was a unanimous decision, it was a unanimous committee that set up operational management. And then I have to say when the representative, Mr. Werp, says that "management cannot be adopted": yes, management in the sense of the principle of how management is exercised, it is the responsibility of the Council of State, and it must be adopted. After the fatal Vassdalen accident, it was precisely what the Defense realized, that one had to change the leadership philosophy of the Defense, and one then found that an established mission-based management. When the representative Tajik asked for his own big message for culture and management, it is, in my opinion, such premise for what the Council of State will present during 2016 that this is absolutely essential and absolutely central. And I just want to ask the Council of State if he can confirm what I've just said, that mission-based management becomes a central part of the paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e540	I would like to thank all those who took part in the debate for helping to do him well and to contribute with their perspectives. I think it is important for the police to see that there is a broad political Norway that shows interest in this. I agree with the representative Lundtigen that culture and leadership are a responsibility for leadership, and that means that at the end of the day it is also a political responsibility. That means that there is a responsibility also for us in this room. I also take note of what the representative Lundteg says about references to the early work of the Control Committee, that it would have listened to the attitude of the police reform. It is a response that I understand. It may well have been that it should have been clearer. And by expressing it from this pulpit, I mean to link the work of the Control Committee to the further implementation of the police reform that the Minister of Justice stands for. I have tried to listen to you when you might find some separators in this discussion, because I think it might be useful for further discussions. I mean to be able to see a certain disunity when it comes to what kind of tool is appropriate. The representative of the Rivers quoted Churchill. Right, Churchill didn't say "structures," he said "buildings" when it was what we formed and that later formed us. It's a different approach than, for example, a different one. to say that culture is a strategy for breakfast. Although I do not want to express myself as strongly as the representative Klinge, at least I share the basic idea that organisational changes do not contribute to cultural change. Another dividing line is that I feel that there is a certain discrepancy about the meaning of the subject, i.e. professionalism, professional anchoring. I mean, having that anchoring is about legitimacy, about choices, about implementation. It also ensures that the work you do is consistent. I noticed that the Minister of Justice said ‘to the extent that there is a profession’ and pointed out that there is little research in the field. Indeed, there is little research on Norwegian police culture, but there is a lot of research on organisation, there is a lot of research on leadership, there is a lot of police – including some on police in Norway – so even if there are white spots on the map, the map is not completely white. It would therefore be interesting to hear more about what the Minister of Justice is leaning on. For example, one on the one hand has American Edgar Schein, who says that it is the leaders who are the most important cultural creators, while Swedish Mats Alvesson believes that it is probably the culture that characterizes the leader more than the other. When I ask for this, it's about choosing a direction based on a subject, based on values. It's consistent, it gives results. Then it may be that the Minister of Justice is for all time, and so we may be going forward in every direction, but I don't think that's what's most useful to give consistent and good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e555	Let me first thank you for a good and reflected debate. I would also like to comment on some of the contributions and contributions. The representative, Asphjell, criticized the government because he didn't see any trace of what we're going to follow up on the implementation of the near-police reform. I'm a little curious about it and wonder if it's not due to a misunderstanding. The close police reform is now to be implemented. It cannot be expected that the traces of the near-police reform will exist until the near-police reform is launched. I also do not believe that there should be expectations that the near-police reform has been implemented during 2016, this is a work that will take longer than that. With regard to the representative Klinge, I believe it is a right perspective to say that you do not change culture and attitudes – nor management – by just moving on boxes. But I don't think you can say the opposite: you can't use moving boxes to contribute to a change in culture, management and attitudes. I think it's necessary to see the two things in context, one will not exclude the other. Nor do I believe that the structure we have today is the fascination with what kind of police you should have for the future. There I know that the center part is different from that of the broad mass mass. But I think it's necessary to think a little bit differently also in terms of organisation if you're going to be able to make a change in culture, management and attitudes. This is not least due to the fact that in today’s structure we have 27 different policemen – a bit caricatured to say. Getting a much more like police, getting a police leadership group that is manageable, that can continue clear leadership, culture and attitudes in a much more concrete way, because they are themselves part of a leadership community at the top level in the Norwegian police, I think will actually contribute to influencing leadership, culture and attitudes in a positive way. In fact, it is about facilitating the framework conditions to ensure that culture is influenced, to influence attitudes and to ensure better governance at all levels. Therefore, I believe it is wrong to say that moving boxes in itself cannot also help to change a culture. I am very much in agreement with the nature of the importance of being a police officer, but I think it is also wrong to say that you should not have a police directorate that works. The Gjørv Commission criticised the police directorate for being too weak when it came to developing the Norwegian police force. It was one of the most important criticisms that hit the Police Directorate. To the representative Abrahamsen: I very much agree that it is not necessary just to divide the negative, it is equally important to learn from what is positive, using ‘best practice’ to get better. It is absolutely essential that we ensure a better police force in the future. So I'm familiar with the description of Lundtigen. We were set up in the Control and Constitutional Committee when this was discussed. I was the head of the committee, and I know well the perspectives Lundtigen has, and of course it will be taken care of in the big news that will come in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e570	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-05.ana.ud1534e583	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
