ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e26	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e29	On behalf of the representatives of Oluk V. Bollestad, Line Henriette Hemdal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to combat the slavery of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e34	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e37	On behalf of Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hemdal and myself, I would like to promote a Document 8 proposal on a plan to secure the right to life support at the end of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e42	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e45	On behalf of myself – and certainly many others – I would like to put forward proposals to introduce up-to-date assessments prior to the expulsion of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e50	The representative, Mr Andersen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e53	I would like to put forward two proposals, one by Mr Audun Lystbakken, Mr Vegar Solhjell and myself, to accept several Syrian refugees, and a proposal by Mr Kirsti Bergstø and myself on better ways for Nav to use discretion and solve mistakes that occur in simple matters that do not deal with social security fraud.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e59	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e62	On behalf of the representatives of Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal to wind up the enterprise model and introduce elected government of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e67	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e70	On behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Geir Pollestad, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I am delighted to present proposals for the establishment of a green investment company for the development of technology companies. [[Green Carbon]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e75	The representative of Ms Aasen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e78	On behalf of the representatives Trond Giske, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Sigmund Steinnes and myself, I would like to propose raising the recording requirements for teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e83	The representative, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e86	On behalf of Trond Giske, Marianne Aasen, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Sigmund Steinnes and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for early school participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e91	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e103	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Monica Mæland and Robert Eriksson will meet for oral Question Time. The members of the government advertised are present, as far as the President can see, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, which are from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e110	I have a question for the Minister of State. One of the most important jobs we have as politicians is choosing what's most important. Not least, it is expressed when we make budgets. We know that we have a limited amount of money at our disposal. The question is, what do we think is the most important thing to spend this money on? In the fall the government came with its answer: The most sovereign bet for the Right and the Advance Party was tax cuts. Over 9 B.C.E. kr should go to this. It was e.g. around a hundred times as much as the Right Party and the Advance Party increased the investment in primary and secondary schools. Those who were going to get the most were the ones who had the most from before. The richest 5 pst. In Norway, half of the tax cuts were paid, and ordinary people received 50 ears a day. The working party had a different choice. We thought it was more important to spend the money to ensure that more sick people in Norway are treated, that older people are cared for, and that school students get teachers with time to help and time to follow up those who are struggling. For the Workers' Party, a good school and a safe care for the elderly were far more important than tax cuts for the most prosperous. But the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted a different direction. Now we see the consequences in the municipalities. Many municipalities report cuts and cuts. The NRK reported that in Hedmark and Uppland, there are seven out of ten municipalities that cut primary school cuts. Drought half of the advisers tell of cut in care and care. Nearly the same number of people say it's going to be cut in kindergartens. The Right Party and the Advance Party say that the tax cuts are so important because they seem to be growth-promoting, but when the Ministry of Finance asked how much growth there was, they said that the impact was small. My question to the municipal minister is: Does he feel a responsibility for the fact that the situation in many municipalities is as it is, and what is the reason why the Right believes that tax cuts are more important than good care for the elderly and a good school?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e127	Now the tax policy is under the finance minister, but I'd like to answer that question too, because it seems to me to be the question from the representative Trond Giske that he hasn't realized that we're in a completely different situation today than what we were before the 2013 elections, simply because the oil price has fallen from over $100 to about $50. It has consequences not only for the money going into the pension fund, but it has consequences for the jobs of people. And if there's one thing this government is busy about, then it's that people should have a safe job to go to. That is why we are committed to facilitating growth and development in business. Therefore, the main priority of this government is to invest in infrastructure — yes, the appropriations for transport have increased by nearly 8 billion. kr since Trond Giske sat in government. It means a lot to people most, it means a lot to business, and it means a lot to the workplace. That is why we are focusing on growth-enhancing tax incentives to invest more in business, and that is why we are focusing on knowledge and research. Then I am concerned that we are going to have a safe and good municipal economy. That is why we have set up a scheme for the municipal sector, which means that the municipalities get the same growth in free income as they got when the red-green ones crashed. It seems very strange that what was historically strong when the red-greens crashed is suddenly going to be dramatic when the bourgeois parties have the same growth. So I know that many municipalities have tough priorities, and many municipalities are able to achieve good priorities within a tight framework. We must ensure a good municipal economy even in the years to come, but we must have a secure foundation for the growth power of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e136	It's a very strange argument that since we're in a quite threatening situation for a lot of jobs, we're going to spend the biggest investment in the state budget on tax cuts that don't affect the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, but that only makes the richest even richer. Giving money to tax cuts and tightening up the local economy has some completely absurd results. In Stavanger, Stavanger Right had to increase the property tax. There the officer from the Right, Odd Jo Forsell, says: "This is something that is far inside of us. [[...]] The group thought it was difficult, but concluded that out of two bottoms we had to choose this. The alternative was to cut heavily in school and living conditions.’ So the municipal minister is responsible for the municipal pot. Ragnhild Lid from the Federation of Education says that the Right has had education as one of its fanatics in the election campaign. Norwegian teachers and students are sadly not aware of this in school everyday life. Does the municipal minister feel that he is responsible for the fact that the municipalities now do not have enough money for school and care for the elderly, and he actually has to cut down instead of investing in what will create growth in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e150	We must create more, not more taxes, if we are to ensure the development of our welfare society in the decades to come. We have provided a triple in the number of teachers who receive continuing education. Is there something that really is an investment for the future, is investing in our competent teachers, so they can get even better. We promised before the election that we would bet on continuing education, and we have provided a triple. Then it strikes me that there must be something about the short-term memory of the representative Trond Giske, because in the eight years that the Workers' Party put in power, there were not a few rapporteurs from the Centre Party and from the Workers' Party who protested against the tight community economy and that it led to cuts in their budgets. It is not new that local politicians must give priority. We have made sure that the municipalities get the same growth as they did when the red-green ones crashed. It provides security for the local economy, but of course we have municipal politicians who want more, and who have higher ambitions for their inhabitants. We're going to make sure they get a safe economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e161	Follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e164	Tax is the municipality's main income, and as the municipal minister was involved, it has been assumed that there will be growth in the municipal economy. That local economy is based on an estimate of growth also in the tax receipts of municipalities. It is the estimate that comes into the State budget, and that is what municipal politicians are planning to do in the coming year. Last year we had a situation where the money did not come. It was a significant tax failure for the municipalities. The tax intake in January and February shows that neither this year will the government estimate if it continues the forecast. In January and February there was a significantly lower entrance than one had assumed. Last year the government refused to compensate the municipalities for this tax failure, and my question is: does this government intend this year to give the municipalities the opportunity to implement what they have planned, by compensating them for failing tax revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e171	The representative has a very important point, namely that the growth of tax revenue is important for the well-being of both municipalities and national authorities. That is one of the important reasons why this government is focusing on change, growth and development – precisely because tax revenue is what finances our well-being. It is true that the municipalities experienced a tax failure last year, and we see that it may also reproduce in 2015. That is why both the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Municipal Affairs and of Modernisation have already said that we will look forward to the revised national budget in the context of the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e178	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e181	The theme is municipal economy, and we know that local politicians around the country are now very busy getting accounts and budgets to go up this year. We're moving towards a election, and there'll be some new representatives, who are also excited about what's going to happen now. Of course, municipalities must provide good welfare services. Now we're hearing about oil prices, we know about changes in the labour market, and we've seen failed tax entry last year. My question to the municipal minister is: How does the municipal minister perceive the status of tax revenue so far in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e189	I don't have any new numbers to present now besides those that are known in public space. The government presents new figures when we present revised national budgets. Once we have presented the revised national budget, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will sit around the table and agree on a draft revised national budget. I'm absolutely sure it's going to be a good setup. The four parties cooperated well on the budget for the current year, and I look forward to the cooperation we will have for the rest of this year and this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e194	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e197	The local authorities are in a very difficult situation. The tax failure of last year and the new failure of this year require strong cuts in services. This should have been corrected in the balancing proposition in December. I expect that there will now be additional appropriations in the revised national budget that will enable municipalities to provide good services. I notice that the government’s expert councils for central municipal services such as care for the elderly and school are very clear on the requirements they impose on the municipalities and the services they are to provide. It's fine, but it assumes that the municipalities have the resources to deliver. They have less this year than they've had in previous years. Does the Ministry of Local Affairs have any overview of how many positions in the care sector or of how many teacher's years have been lost in the last year due to these severe cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e204	The representative can go into the KOSTRA figures, and she will see how the development is for the individual municipalities. What we see is that welfare services are strengthened in Municipality-Norway. I'm impressed by the job that local politicians do – from different parties. I was in Halden two days ago and visited the rapporteur there, from the Right, who is cooperating with the other bourgeois parties, also with the Centre Party, and they have in one year been able to reverse a deficit of almost 75 million. kr to a profit. So it's possible to get it done! They've taken cost control. They carry out a necessary conversion after the local economy in which there was a runt. I look around in Municipal Norway politicians from all parties that take responsibility and that provide good services to their inhabitants. We need to ensure a good framework for the local economy, so that it is possible to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e213	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e216	I agree that good framework conditions for municipalities and county municipalities are the foundations of the welfare state. So it's a little amazing that someone who's been in ministerial posts for a long time before, doesn't see this swinging, not least when oil prices go down. We took it into account last year, when it was unintended effects, and added, among other things. loss compensation to county councils for precisely improving the situation of secondary schools in order to ensure that there was a good offer. My question to the Council of State is: If there are unintended effects of tax revenue, will the Council of State be involved in compensating for the unintended effects, so that it does not go beyond the core of the system in terms of care services and schooling for our students?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e223	There has been a broad political consensus in Stortinget that municipalities will maintain tax growth when it is beyond what has been suggested. It has been a prerequisite for not compensating for tax failure. We also made that happen last year, and we also agreed with KS. But at the same time, we have been very clear, as the representative of Skkelstad now also stresses, that we need to look at the framework of the municipalities. That is why we have said that towards the revised national budget we must look at the framework of the local economy, and then, of course, the development of tax revenue will also be an element of it. It is a broad political consensus that we should have a good framework for the local economy. That's why, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we got a municipal structure that implies a growth in the free income of the municipalities that is on the level of what they were under red-green rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e230	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e233	The municipal politicians take responsibility, says the municipal minister. There is no doubt about it, but the question is now whether the government takes responsibility. The growth that the government is boasting of in the local economy is eaten up by the tax failure that was last year and that the first two months of this year have gone down a steep curve. That means that many municipalities at all don't get the growth that the government is now saying they're going to have. I notice that both when the prime minister – last week – and the municipal minister – is in Stortinget, the eyes glow and light up when you talk about tax relief, especially to the richest, while when you talk about what's really going on in the municipalities, what's going on in the classroom, what's going on in the hospital, when these cuts have to be taken, you start talking about budget balance, responsibilities, etc. I have to ask: is it really the case that this fiscal policy is more important to the Minister of State than ensuring good care for the elderly and good school?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e242	The answer to that question is no. I've always had a glowing commitment just to have good schools, because the schools are very basic to the knowledge and skills our children and young people get. If the kids don't learn to read, write and calculate, we also know that too many people fall out of high school, and we know that many people have problems in the labour market. So the fact that we provide a good school is absolutely crucial. But we also have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We need to create more if we are to be able to secure well-being in the years to come. We are concerned with our welfare society – not only today, but also tomorrow. If we are to make sure that we strengthen our welfare society in the decades to come, we need to carry out some reforms, including: to ensure stronger professional environments. We need to focus more on knowledge and research, not least infrastructure, as this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e249	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e253	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. Norway is a wonderful country to live in, and most of us have it very well. But unfortunately, there are some people who fall outside, and some young people who grow up in poverty. For children, the challenge is extra demanding. They may experience social isolation. They experience that they cannot take part in leisure activities and that they often have to take responsibility for saying no to continue sport because they know that their parents cannot afford it, or that they themselves refuse to go to a birthday party because it is expected to be a mandatory gift. In order to combat poverty, the basic welfare society is essential – as many differences as possible and to minimise poverty. One knows that early work, good and safe kindergartens, early work at school, that one is secure education, that there is a good health system that works, that a backer of voluntary organisations that can contribute to socialisation can help fight poverty. Work is the key – we all agree on that. It's the permanent way out of poverty. It ensures social fellowship, and it's a place where you can use your skills and talent. But there are some who will not manage to get into work, who will be permanently in poverty, or who will be temporarily out of work. One sees that there is a growing trend, especially among immigrant groups and some single parents. Targeted measures are needed. Together, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties have done a part in the budget, but in the cooperation agreement that we signed in the Nydalen, we agreed that a desired package of measures against poverty, especially against child poverty. I followed that up from a draft representative that we promoted before the 2013 elections. My question to the Council of State is quite simple: When will the package of measures to combat child poverty come?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e266	First, I want to thank you for the question, because that is an important question. A good number of children live with parents who have low incomes, and they do not experience the same freedom and do not have the same opportunities as many other children. How are we to secure the welfare society? How can we ensure a society that gives more people the same opportunities that I feel the representative refers to and asks if is an important objective of this government? It is important for this government to close holes in the social security network. It's a job we've started with. That is why we have tripled the efforts of social entrepreneurs, better facilitating voluntary play, as the representative, Mr Ropstad, points out. We have strengthened the appropriations for the holidays for everyone, so that several children who are outside now have the opportunity to have a holiday experience. More children than before get involved in activities because the grants have been increased and we have established a national anti-poverty grant scheme. There are important steps taken by the government, but the government also wants to follow up on what is in the cooperation agreement. That is why, over the course of the year, we will present a strategy against child poverty. The strategy shall be based on the Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. My intention and the government's intention is also to take into account in the strategy of the studies carried out by the National Audit Office on the subject of child poverty. That's what we're doing. Work is in progress. The Christian People's Party and the Left will be included, and during the year that strategy will be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e273	Thank you very much for your answer. It's a happy news that there's going to be such a strategy. I think that can help coordinate the work. As the Council of State itself says, the Riksrevision came with crass criticism, among other things. with regard to the fact that some municipalities do not do enough work or that the state effort is not coordinated enough. That, I believe, is an important measure. One of the most important things for these families and for all people who live in poverty on a permanent basis is contact with the public and help they get from Nav. Before the weekend, there were two important things about Nav. One is that the Vågeng Committee presented its report with much criticism of Nav, but also with some suggestions for the way forward. In addition, it is now known that there will be a new Nav Director. The Council of State stated in this context that Nav is his main political project, and therefore is my question: Will the Council of State involve the Storting in the work, and will he bring about changes in Nav during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e280	When the Vågeng Committee presented its interim report, I used the following words: Nav is at a crossroads. We need to move from a red tape reform to a user reform. People have to be put first. That's what we're doing. That work shall be reinforced and that work shall be further clarified in the future. Therefore, it will be important for me to go thoroughly through the report of the Vågeng Committee, but also to go through the comments made by the National Audit Office, in order to find out how to strengthen the experiences of the users of Nav, how to ensure that people go ahead of the system, how to ensure that people get the right help at the right time. Once we have examined it thoroughly, we will make a number of proposals for action. My intention is that we present a big message, so that the Storting can also discuss changes broadly, and agree to thrust out the new direction in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e287	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e290	In these days, many people replace the skis with bicycles, winter shoes with jogging shoes – yes, the spring is in antsy. For some, this is a very demanding economic exercise, and we know that persistent poverty can have major consequences. Therefore, it is very important that children and young people growing up in low-income families receive well-targeted offers. It is a pleasure to hear that the Council of State is so clear that all children should have the same opportunities, no matter where you grow up. So we also know that experiencing something together is important, whether it's with family or friends. The experience is important in itself, but also to be able to tell about the experience. In Ålesund, an experience card system has been in place for many years. It is also decided to introduce it in Bergen. Is this an action on the two-do list of the Councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e297	Now we have a good cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion on Child Poverty. Most grant schemes, the instruments, in the case of child poverty, are located within the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. I also know a little about the experience card. I believe that there may be one of several actions that, through the grant schemes, the national grant scheme too, may have local freedom to develop itself. I think it's important that we also get the volunteer going more quickly. Volunteering can be innovative, can create new solutions, new experiences and better relationships for those outside, and include them. To say that one tool is better than the other, I think you should be careful, but I think experience cards are an interesting, good offer. Similarly, there are activity cards in the Drama and equipment storage, etc., so that you can participate in leisure activities. Local solutions prove to work well when good grant schemes are in place to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e304	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e307	When it comes to combating child poverty, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party are fully in line. We believe it has to be traversed through two tracks. The first track is the most important, the taskbar must be inclusive and it must work. People have to stay at work and get to work to support their children. So it's Track 2: We need targeted, concrete, powerful actions aimed at the families concerned. The first track weakens the government by cutting in kindergartens, with the aim of getting more on cash support, by cutting in action areas and by making serious proposals for cutting in transitional aid, which would send thousands of lone carers on social assistance and into poverty instead of in work. The second track we are as impatient as the Christian People's Party to see: When does the action plan come directly to the families? On the contrary, we have seen proposals for large cut for these families by the government, proposals for rough cut in the children's supplement, which would hit thousands of families where the poor children live, very hard. Would the Council of State today, if one could reverse the time, propose a cut in the transitional aid and cut in the children's supplement? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e314	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e317	I think it's interesting to look forward, interesting to see what this government has actually done to target these families, to children living in low-income families. There we have strengthened in the current year, not reduced in kindergartens, we have strengthened the core time in kindergartens for families with poor finances. We have improved the scholarship system, so that young people who attend high school living in families with poor finances will have better opportunities to pursue higher education, which will be essential to having the skills to succeed in the future. We strengthen our efforts to participate in holiday and activity offers, which are also targeted offers. In addition, we have strengthened efforts to increase the number of people working on a new, sustainable wage subsidy, better follow-up agreement and better inclusion arrangements, which also help to ensure that more people are outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e323	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e326	Child poverty is increasing as a result of increasing labour migration. There are many children who are in an incredibly demanding situation in life, who need help, need a warm hand from family, friends, non-profit organisations, and from the public. What the Council of State refers to is whether holiday to everyone and national grant scheme against child poverty is good – not least is holiday to all a good measure, I think. As many have experienced, the parents' situation with work and housing is the most important, that's where one lays the platform, that's where one lays the foundation. But the councils referred to strategy, and there's so much talk about strategy. Strategy is based on a common sense of reality of what we are facing, and my question is: What is the level of ambition of the government at the end of this major election period? Should there be fewer members of the child-restraint group, or should there be more?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e333	The clear objective is that it should be fewer, not more. The government wants to – or not just want us to – pursue a policy to reduce differences in Norway. That's why we're busy closing holes in the social security network. That's why I'm very proud that for a while I too – it's one of the things that Lundtägen has to do with having a dwelling – along with the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I put forward a housing social action plan that allows more people to have the security of having a home, so that they can start to bet on, lower their shoulders, concentrate on education, get into the labour market and become self-contained by their own income. I think that is a good and important measure, and it also shows that this government's policy is linked to a broad range of instruments towards the families living with poor finances. We want to continue to strengthen efforts in this area to ensure that fewer people experience growing up with low income and child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e338	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e341	In its answer to the main question, the Council of State warned that there was a big deal about Nav with the job title: How do users feel better about Nav's service? That's very good — a big message on the left really looks forward to participating actively in the discussion. We have at least four things that we think should get an in-depth discussion in such a big message. If we're going to realize the common goal behind the Nav reform with a door in, I think we're going to have to move a lot more power back into the first-line service and real decision-making. We also believe that you have to give greater access to the use of discretion, general publicity. It makes sense. If you treat everyone the same way, you treat everyone differently, because we have different needs. We also believe that one in the rule should be able to have direct communication with the case handler who is at the final decision-making power. What's interesting... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e352	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e355	I think the representative from the Left addresses many important issues that should not only be discussed, but discussed in such a communication. I agree with the representative from the Left, Breivik, that it is important to ensure that we get more authoritative Nav offices. When most people are in a hopelessly difficult situation in a municipality, where do they go for help? Yeah, they're going to their local Nav office. Then we have to make sure that they have power and authority, decision-making authority, the people locally who can take good action and help people, and make sure they get the right help at the right time and better follow-up. It is something that the Vågeng Committee also points to – a work that I think it is important to take it further. Then it's important that you not only give the opportunity to a greater degree of judgement, but also focus on the proper use of judgement in order to help people faster with the problem you're up against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e362	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e365	The fight against child poverty is crucial in the fight against the differential society. Therefore, in a short time, SV will make proposals to raise poor children to a better situation, and we hope to join them. It's necessary when we see that it's cut in the baby supplements to the poorest disabled, and we see that it's cut to lonely dependants. Now, our concern is that the implementation of the unfettered reform should put us back in the fight against child poverty. The figures from the department show that many have losses that are felt to be significant. 14 345 people get a loss in net income of more than NOK 6000 per year, and for the many tens of thousands who lose up to NOK 6000, it feels like a lot of money. That could be what makes you go to the movies or participate in a football tournament. My question is whether the Council of State can guarantee that we will not increase child poverty by the way the reform is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e372	I can repeat what I have said from this pulpit several times in the case of the reform, which was presented by the previous government and adopted in the United Kingdom in 2011 without any kind of transitional arrangement then: I am proud that this government is taking people seriously. That is why, over three years now, we have also introduced a transitional regime costing 750 million. kr. Without this transitional scheme, many unsatisfied, over 30,000 more, could have achieved a significant overall tax increase for all — a total of 750 million. kr over three years. That's what you're trying to prevent now. While it is important, as I have said before, to follow closely the evolution of the living conditions with regard to the effects of the unfettered reform, I think it is important to take targeted action against the children affected by the reform, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e379	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e383	The government has had one answer to all public sector challenges. It's aggregation and centralization. Jan Tore Sanner has traveled throughout the country with his index finger raised high. There's one answer, there's no way out. It's a combination that's the tune of time. According to Sanner, there has been a great majority behind the fantastic municipal reform. But let me quote from today's class struggle, where the headline is: «Tracks full municipal collapse». The reform can end with a few municipal mergers. With regard to the description of the task message, it is thin. The task message is a starting point. In the case of future income to the municipalities, the same article says that I do not rely on the promises of the government. This is not a statement from the Center Party, but from one of the government parties, and one of the government parties' vice-presidents, Per Sandberg. My question to the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner is: How does the Council of State see Per Sandberg's statement that the municipal reform is collapsing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e392	I can say that I do not share the pessimism of Per Sandberg or of the representative of Battle Violence of Vedum. I believe that if one were to reach the conclusion of the representative, Mr Vedum, that everything should be as determined in the 1960s, there would be a very poor response in the meeting with today's and tomorrow's challenges. Because we have to remember that today's municipal structure was established when Elvis Presley was housed on the hit lists in Europe. It was before the hospital reform, before the HVPU reform, before the kindergarten reform, before the interaction reform. Norway has changed. That is why we also need to implement reforms that ensure good services for the future. What is the basis for this reform is that we must ensure good services where people live. The solution of the centre party contributes to centralisation. Increased centralisation in Norway is the consequence of the Central Party’s policy. Our transition – our reforms – is to ensure good services to people where they live. When I look at what the people say, according to the nation, there are almost two out of three people who think you should have fewer municipalities and stronger municipalities. It's 44 pst. that you think you should have fewer municipalities. I think that's because local politicians and voters have seen that Kommune-Norge is facing some challenges that don't go away. That's why I believe that the municipal reform does not go through, precisely because there are some challenges there. We're getting more, we're getting older. Reforms are needed to ensure good services for citizens where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e401	What's so amazing when you listen to Jan Tore Sanner is that he seems to forget the facts. The large government population surveys show that people are most satisfied with the services of the small municipalities, that we have the biggest challenges within the main tasks of municipalities – hospitals – in the largest municipalities. What's so sad about this reform that Sanner has started is that instead of discussing how we can make services better, how we can get hospitals better, how we can get child protection better, how we discuss structure, structure and structure. Then we have a government cracking in every direction, with Per Sandberg saying one, and another Vice President – Jan Tore Sanner – saying the other. And then we have two support parties that say that the task message is too thin, it's too bad, it has to be a lot of slogans. It's a lot of mess. At least I have an invitation to Sanner to clear one topic of the track: Can Sanner now confirm that it is completely out of the question for the government to use coercion in the case of municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e410	I assume that Schlagsvold Vedum has read both the staging message we presented last year, and the setting from Stortinget. There is a broad majority who believe that there is a need for reform. It was a broad majority who said that the municipalities should start in the autumn of 2014, it was a broad majority who supported the financial instruments, and a broad majority who thought that the reform should be based on volunteering and good local processes, but that it could also be an exception to that general rule. Of course, it's firm. Then I have to say that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, has to read the entire article in the class struggle – why has the representative, Mr. Sandberg, stated what he has done? It's because he's worried that the Christian People's Party and the Left won't stand behind the reform. If there's something I'm not worried about, it's just that. I experience the Christian People's Party and the Left here in Stortinget as drivers of the municipal reform. So I am absolutely sure that the local politicians who are in the leadership of this reform will implement reforms to ensure the citizens good services in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e417	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e420	It is now increasingly unclear what the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left really agree on in terms of content and progress in the community reform. Left André N. Skkelstad says that he fears that the Right through the task message has arranged a plan B that means that the county municipality will be drained for content, so that it can be dropped later on without any problem. Many smaller municipalities fear that the government will use the municipality's income system as a breakup bar to force through a municipal merger. Per Sandberg, who stands the government a lot closer than I do, expressed at a conference in Trøndelag last week: I do not trust the government in terms of the income system of the municipalities. It is relatively alarming when the Vice-Chairman of a government party thus warns the municipalities against just the government. Can the Council of State guarantee that the income system will not be used as a breakup bar for municipal mergers? Or does Per Sandberg have the right to warn the municipalities against the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e427	At least I can assure the representative, Mr Greni, that this Vice-Chairman trusts the government! We have presented a scheme that includes: means that the municipalities that merge during this flooding period have a guarantee to maintain the small municipal grant for 20 years – 15 years plus five years. It's a guarantee that no other government or any other politician can give. We have given the guarantee to the municipalities that merge during this ageing period. Then I have to say that if you think that the job message is thin, you can respectfully not have read it. The task message means the largest transfer of tasks to the municipalities ever. We're not doing this because local politicians lack tasks, but because it could provide better services to citizens. It's what must always be our leader, both locally and nationally, that citizens should get better services where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e436	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e439	I record that the minister believes that the municipalities have not changed since Elvis was on the hit lists – and it certainly does not have the Right either. Yesterday, we had a number of people from different organisations in the local committee for consultation on the mission notification and the changes proposed by the government. With a few exceptions, strong criticism was voiced by the hearing parties that most of the tasks proposed for transfer are not professionally justified, are not professionally documented, are poorly investigated – dental health, secondary school, public transport, aids, etc. In addition, it was also pointed out that most tasks are not suitable for strengthening the political power of the municipalities, as they are largely regulated, detailed and regulatory tasks that the government proposes to move over – passport, marriage, control of swimming pool. The question is whether the Council of State will listen to this criticism from the hearing parties and ensure that the various proposals are thoroughly examined and have the technical justifications requested by the hearing parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e448	I'm busy listening. I am also concerned about adjusting if there are good arguments. We did that after the Storting had dealt with the municipal bill last year, among other things. after the participation of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which was thought to have three levels of management for the future. So let's think about that. The Workers' Party and the Left were also concerned that they should not have any statutory approval of loans that the municipalities had taken up. We adjusted that. And we also adjusted the reform support to municipalities that merge. That is the point: when implementing such a major reform, you need to know where to go. But you also have to be willing to adjust the course along the way, and we are. The tasks we have proposed to transfer, we transfer because it strengthens the offer to the inhabitants. Dental health has very little to do with public transport and highways, but it has a lot to do with school health and community health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e457	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e461	It is probably the case that municipalities need more money to do these tasks – rather than force them to merge. There are very few who are enthusiastic about the reform, but one that is, is the NHO Service’ Petter Furulund, who probably releases the cats from the bag and says what it is, that ‘small municipalities make it difficult to make money to provide welfare services’. This combination of municipalities does not mean what the government says, namely that the municipalities should do the task of maritime transport, but that several of the municipal services should be put out for tender and put out for competition. As far as I understand it, the Right Party and the Advance Party believe it is good, for example, to do so. use tenders, competitive tendering and the care of individuals. Then I would like to ask the municipal minister – he knows what this is all about – whether he can see the help nurses and cleaners in his eyes and say that they serve too much and have too good a pension, because it is those who get to cut this by tendering.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e470	When we implement the community reform, it is to ensure good welfare services for the inhabitants and to strengthen local democracy. What is a major challenge in many places is the creation of so many intercommunal companies and cooperation that it puts local politicians in check. In the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, the audit has gone through and looked at the scope of inter-municipal cooperation. It has been seen to be promised between 60 and 70 tasks from the municipalities and to a system that does not have the same political control and governance. When we implement this reform, it is for local politicians to be able to take responsibility again for those tasks. If the municipality chooses to have the freedom to choose between private and municipal services, or if you just want to have municipal services, it is a responsibility for local democracy, for voters and for politicians to decide locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e477	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e480	My question goes to the Minister for Industry: I would like to begin by commending the Minister that the government has now finally started work on a new business plan for Norway. The left has been a strong driver for a more unified entrepreneurial policy. Now there are measures that apply. The government refers to and acknowledges that the entrepreneurial potential has not been exploited in Norway. And when you compare Norway with other OECD countries, it turns out that we don’t have a good development – the foundation is very weak in Norway. An offensive policy for several entrepreneurs and small businesses calls for new policy ideas and instruments, and not least for some policy responses. The left will, of course, go constructively into cooperation with the government on this new business plan. We already have several moments and suggestions to highlight. I can point out that we want to remove the employer’s fee for the first three years for enterprises with fewer than five employees, we want to introduce a separate tax deduction – capital finding – for enterprises that operate active bud shooting, according to the model of the TaxFUNN scheme, which is a success, and we want to have increased entrepreneurship in school and strengthen cooperation between the research community, business and school. Our list is longer, but I stop this and ask the question: What concrete ideas and solutions does the Minister of Industry see for himself, so that there can be even better frameworks and conditions for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e493	Thank you for the question, and thank you for your support for the work we are doing. I fully agree that the Left has been a driver of good entrepreneurial policy since we came into government. The advantage of having to make a plan is, of course, that it's not completely nailed until we make it, so we're now starting with an open mind and accepting all the good ideas. We're going to travel around and meet entrepreneurs and people who make recordings across the country. Then we're going to try to summarize it in a document that gives a unified, good and planned policy, also in this field. Because what we see is that while you have a plan for maritime industries and a policy for travel, you don't have it for business start-ups. Of course, in a situation where we need to create new businesses and new jobs, it is sad that the number of companies that set up, the number of companies that are growing, from 2005 to today has fallen. We have to do something about that. I receive a lot of input. Last night, I was at a high school in Oslo that has an entrepreneurship line. They had many good suggestions on how we also learn entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in school. It's not something you're born to – it's actually something you have to learn. I think it's very important to bet on it in school. We know that entrepreneurs are asking for two main components. It's competence and capital -- we both have to look at it. So there's a whole lot of other things, for example. laws and rules relating to small enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e502	Thanks for the answer. I'll attach an addition to it: As the Council of State knows, and as I am trying to get here today, the Left will want Norway to lead globally, too, in the global transition to green growth and a climate-neutral economy, and we want to strengthen the mechanisms that contribute to technological development, ensuring access to risk capital for large, innovative projects in the green sectors. It is important to have mechanisms that ensure adequate support beyond the development phase. It's very important. At the national meeting of the Left last weekend, the Director of Innovation Norway confirmed the need for more targeted capital infrastructure and more targeted green industrial activities. My follow-up question is: does the Minister of Industry share the view that for the companies in the Minister of Industry portfolio, by 2030 it must be at least 50 pst. of the capital made available is used for green industry and green growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e513	I'm a little unsure if I understood the question. We have a large portfolio of companies that we manage through our management in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, and there is just a treatment of a ownership message that sets out the course for which principles apply to ownership exercise. There are high expectations of the environment and sustainability, but there is no set of targets for this. There are different companies, and the boards have to make different assessments. Just before Christmas we agreed unanimously in Stortinget 10 billion. kr to Statkraft, which is one of the companies to run in Norway for the purpose of investing in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e520	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e523	Competition surveillance published recently since the outcome of the investigation of competition in the banking market. The supervision points out that the powers of the financial board have given too little emphasis to competition in the design and implementation of the new capital requirements legislation of the banks. Requirements increase relatively much over a relatively short period and supervision is clear that Norwegian capital requirements should be harmonised with EU legislation. In the absence of harmonisation, the SME discount which Norway refused to introduce is also included. On the contrary, the government should be able to conflict with the EU and use resources and goodwill that should have been spent on the opposite: improving the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are known to be primarily affected by the weight of foreign capacity and more stringent risk assessments. So I hope that the Minister of Industry – in these conversion times – is willing to reconsider this position and do so that the government uses all the good powers to strengthen the value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e530	The main question is that of the Minister of Finance to answer, but let me be clear that our main approach is to harmonise our legislation with the European Union in all the areas we can, precisely because it is a strength for our business. So my responsibility is competition policy. I am familiar with the report by the Competition Authority, with the concerns they have about the banking market and with an alert relating to interest rate policy that makes the public too limited to have the information they need and that we have the competition we need. It is a report that I will follow up, but then in good cooperation with, among other things. the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e537	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e541	I want to start by reminding the Council of State that when we were in government from 2005 to 2013, 350 new jobs were created in Norway. How many have there been since the Council of State took over? It might have been interesting to ask. It has not been long since I was on company visits to the maritime cluster on Sunnmøre, and we were also together at the annual conference of the Shipowners' Association this week. The situation is demanding for that industry, and the arrows go down. This means that the permitting code must be reversed quickly, but there are also clear signals from the industry that a green conversion is needed. Governments have announced a maritime strategy before the summer, and then it is incredibly important to follow up on this by focusing on green growth. The size has decided that we should have a wreckage arrangement, and that is the responsibility of this council of states to follow up. So my question is, what is the weight of the policy that that strategy has? Is there any concrete policy out of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e550	First, of course, it's interesting to count the number of jobs under the previous government, but what's more interesting is that the number of entrepreneurs, the number of start-ups, is much lower and has fallen from 2005 until now. It's a problem, and it's a challenge we've taken seriously, and we're taking it seriously. So Norway has gone in the wrong direction and in a different direction from other OECD countries. As far as maritime policy is concerned, the Government of the Sundvolden Declaration was very clear that we were, first of all, to look at the operating limits in NIS, and, second, the statutory net pay system. So this was a new commitment to a maritime policy that came with this government. We both started, and we also started work on a maritime strategy, which, of course, does not – as the representative may say – have to be some crisis package we come with this spring. It's a long-term, thorough work that we've been working on throughout last year, that will be delivered as planned this spring, and that will facilitate that an industry that has a hundred years of history will be able to live and be world leader in the next hundreds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e557	When the Business Committee was on a committee mission in Stryn, we met the founders of Moods of Norway. The company was founded on a wild idea and a small grant from Innovation Norway in Sogn and Fjordane. The local representative of Norway, as the committee also met, said that this allocation was given because he saw that there was something behind his eyes on these vessels, not necessarily because he thought the idea was so good. One of the founders of Moods of Norway has said that only granny and Innovation Norway had threatened them. Now we know that the government is reversing and centralizing Innovation Norway, the bond to the county is being disengaged, and then my question is: Can entrepreneurs in the districts in the future only trust Grandma?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e564	It's tempting to say something about grandma, grandmothers are smart people, but I don't want to hesitate to say that Innovation Norway is ours, that is, state's, all the most important tools to get more entrepreneurs, get more innovation and more growth-intensive businesses. Therefore, the government is not in the process of centralising Innovation Norway. The regional anchoring, regional knowledge and objectives of Innovation Norway are maintained. But I want to remind the representative that Innovation Norway is therefore a company with 22 owners, with 22 home offices and 36 out-of-office offices, which receive more than 40 letters of assignment, which have more than 130 board members and 16 boards. It tells me that this organization needs space of action to do more of what it's good at, to advise entrepreneurs, such as the founders of Moods of Norway, and to spend less time on bureaucracy and governance. This makes local governments today to be considered branches, while important decisions are made centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e571	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e574	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. I believe that both the Minister of Labour and I have been in quite a number of jobs where work is permanently organized, and the husband of the jobseeker should be looked for a long time. So these are inalienable jobs, and there are incredibly many good services and products being produced there. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that these are people with the same rights to work as everyone else, and it has also been established by the Minister of the Grand Duchy that the new policy we are pursuing must be based on. I'm very happy about that, because we need more of this and not less of it. When there was an interpellation debate on this issue in the Stortinget in November 2014, the Council of State Ericsson also showed that studies were carried out on Norway’s School of Business with regard to the most socio-economical profitability in terms of day-care, activity and permanent work, either in ordinary enterprises or in sheltered enterprises. The State Council of Stortinget said that it was clear that it is most socio-economically profitable that the effort is linked to sustainable work, i.e. towards the labour market, and that it is important to ensure the level of action in this respect. Then I ask the Minister now whether he agrees with SV that permanent work is not employment and activity, but that it is part of labour market policy, and that it is proper work. Can the Minister of Labour confirm that permanent work is not a form of employment, but work, that it is more profitable than day-to-day provision, and that work for people in need of such organisation must also be part of government labour market policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e587	I fully agree with Andersen's representative that the job-seeker, the motivation and the effort being made around – I think I can say – in all VTA companies is phenomenal, and it gives inspiration to look at. I can confirm that the survey from the Norwegian School of Commerce shows that VTA sites are more socio-economically profitable than day-centre sites in the municipality. I can also confirm, as this government has stated, that the level of VTA-related action sites is at a high level and at the level that has existed over time, with a small increase actually every year, except for the last year, which I was also involved in the November 2014 inter-pelling debate. So the representative asks me if I can confirm that VTA should be part of the government labour market. Today, VTA is divided between the state and the municipality, so it's partly municipal responsibility, and it's also a little bit stately. I think it'll be important to look at it that some people might need not to be locked up in a VTA business, but also get the opportunity to move on towards normal work. We should be better able to get slides from VTA over to normal work in the cases that you have the prerequisite for doing so. I think, as is also stated in the mission statement, as the Minister for the Interior has presented, that it may be wise to consider more closely the gathering of responsibilities in one place. It can be an alternative to place it in good and robust municipalities. There's something the government has to consider in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e602	My follow-up question goes to Minister Sanner. For it is precisely the task message that has caused great concern about the permanent organisation of work, not only in the EN, but in the organisations of people with disabilities, which are massively opposed to such a transfer to the municipalities, and also in the VTA companies which are partly owned by the municipalities, but also, for example, by the VTA companies. owned by the Blind Alliance. So where it's going to be of those businesses in this reform, it's hard to see. But the most serious thing is the use of words in this mission message, because there is no talk of the work of people with such major disabilities as this, is work, but there is talk of employment, there is talk of activity, and there is even talk of the fact that it is most appropriate for these people that it is seen as part of the overall service and welfare offer. Removing...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e609	Now I didn't realize what was the question...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e614	I didn't get that far, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e619	But what I can say is that there is no reason for the concerns of Andersen or others. Indeed, it is as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs stressed that responsibility is now shared between the State and the municipality. We also see this in a number of other areas, that responsibility is shared between the state and the municipality. We don't think it's appropriate to have that division for the future. That's why we're looking at whether a transfer to the municipalities can give better offers to those who use the permanently organized jobs. That's what's leading behind the whole task transfer. It's about seeing what can give a better offer to those who use these services. Many of those who use long-term job opportunities also use other municipal services, and this means that overall they can be better offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e627	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e630	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. SV believes it is important not to transfer VTA sites to municipalities, because it is about ensuring equivalent labour market measures for vulnerable groups, and it is about avoiding uncertainty about funding. But we also believe, like Councillor Eriksson, that permanent work is carried out in important companies, which produce the necessary things and products, and carry out the necessary tasks. Now we see that the Norwegian Association of Developmentally Disabled, NFU, has sent a letter to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman calling the proposal to transfer VTA to the municipalities discriminatory. They also fear that this should express a discriminatory assessment of the work effort of people with developmental disabilities. I wonder what's the Council's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e639	With regard to that letter, I record the point of view that comes from the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled. I am concerned, as the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation was also concerned, that this is about people. It's about people living in a municipality, people who need different services: how are we going to get better welfare services where people live? I am happy to belong to a government that is so clear – without having been concluded – saying that it is something we should go through, that we should carefully assess, to see what is most appropriate. I don't think those people are so very concerned about who owns. I think they're most concerned about what offers, what follow-up and what services they get in their everyday lives, and what security they have around these services. That's what this government is dedicated to delivering on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e644	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e647	When the Stortinget did not discuss the employment messages long ago, there were no signals from any of the political parties on the Stortinget that there was a desire for permanent work to be transferred to the municipal sector. Like others, we have received many enquiries from people who are startled by whether they can lose the opportunities for the important activity, the important work that it is, and as I think the Council of State well describes the joy of experiencing – the joy that many have in permanent work. The same applies in so far as the proposal that aid should be transferred to the municipalities, which does not have a local policy assessment as the basis for the benefit, but which is simply a transfer of expenditure to the municipalities. I think the Council of State itself gave a good reason why VTA should still be state-owned, when he says that a greater part should be seen as part of the transition to ordinary work. Yes, at least it should be defined as part of labour market policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e656	It is an overall labour market policy. But you also have to read what is in the problem message that parts of the VTA can be suitable, and I believe so. It should be investigated and looked at and transferred to the municipalities, just to make sure, as I was in my previous answer, to give the best possible global offer to the people where they live. The same applies to aids. Today we see that there are too few aids, and that it is very fragmented – something belonging to the state, which belongs to the municipalities. We're getting older in this country, and it's a good one, but it also means that by 2025 it's going to be 25 pst. more people who need help. How, then, are we going to facilitate a comprehensive aid policy, a comprehensive organisation where people live, so that they can cope as best they can and as far as possible in their everyday lives? It is an important debate that we should take, and it is an important objective for this government to facilitate the best possible solutions for people to live at home as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e663	Geir Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e666	It still applies to rights for disabled people in the labour market. They are particularly dependent on experiencing security in their situation. The Minister took part in the presentation of the municipal reform, and that area will be very central to that reform. There are many disabled people who are now excited about this with equipment they need – wheelchairs, etc. – where it appears that the reform can involve a shift of responsibility and that new people can be involved. It creates a certain insecurity, because they have a demanding life situation. This emerged during the hearing. We're aware of the fact that politics is possible to do a lot, but what's tricked needs to be in focus now. My question is: will the government attach considerable importance to the views of these organisations in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e673	Like my good colleague, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation – earlier today – I am concerned both to listen to and to respond to all the good suggestions. If the suggestions that had to come are good, this government is willing to listen to them. But once again, the most important thing is, after all, to ensure that we provide the best possible solutions, which are as effective as possible, based on the need of the user at all times. I don't think there are users who are very concerned about who delivers what, they're concerned that they get what they need, what they need, the time they need it. I agree that people with disabilities need safety for their working life. That's why we're continuing the job strategy, so we've come up with a new inclusion grant in the proposition we made before Christmas, and that's why we have better follow-up agreements and arrangements just to make them work better in the ordinary working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e680	Per Olaf Lundtegen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e683	Durable work is largely the responsibility of the growing and reintroduction companies. There are municipal or intermunicipal enterprises to a large extent, so that's not what's the question here. It's a question of who's going to finance it. Should it be the state, or should it be the municipality? Since this is a mission message that is not nailed, I would ask the government to listen to former government council Victor Norman, who is the head of businesses, and who strongly recommends that one treat these people in the same way as others with disabilities, namely through government funding. It can't be that this is nailed. One has to look at the whole thing. It works very well the way it is, and it is today a state's main responsibility for funding in a sector facing major challenges. The government has not yet been allocated the 200 new VTA sites. It's a shame when we know it's such a big queue. Only in Buskerud, 54 are in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e689	The government has, as I said before, provided the task allocation message. We're listening. We've drawn up a direction, and we've drawn up a course on VTA. So I believe it is important to look at how we can get the best possible offer. Part of it may be considered as being transferred to the municipalities, as it says in that notification. That means that the Stortinget is invited to join and discuss this. The size has been invited and that message is processed in Stortinget. The size can be involved, have views and draw up the direction for it. But at the same time, I hope that the Storting is also very busy not necessarily by who owns it, but by how we further develop that service offer, a more comprehensive service offer. Then I honestly and sincerely believe that the municipalities can be a good player in order to get good, comprehensive solutions, and it may be reasonable to move parts of it over to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e696	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e699	Last Tuesday, for the first time in the Chamber, we had an own-initiative debate, where the Stortinget, on a proposal from the Labour Party and at the request of a unanimous Labour and Social Committee, discussed the follow-up to the disability reform. I think it is good that the first time that opportunity was used, it was in a case where the background is that a total accumulation is behind a decision that means too many in Norway. I also think it is good that there was broad agreement from all the parties in the committee and from the Christian People's Party, who are not in the committee, that there is reason to take seriously all the requests we get from concerned dismayed people who experience less to live for than before. While the members of the Committee stressed the desire to follow closely the reform in order to identify any unintended outcome of the reform, the Council of State Eriksson was more concerned to present it as if there was nothing more to talk about. For our part, we want to support the reform, but we want to make sure that any unintended effects are detected and corrected. Can the Council of State promise us that, in the context of the work on the revised budget, he will go further into the many examples that a number of individuals and organisations are asking us to go into, and take seriously the concern that many people now feel?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e706	I agree with Mr Andersen, as I also said from the Chair of the own-initiative debate, that people's everyday lives must be taken seriously. I understand that there are many dismayed people who are both frustrated and questioning when they see that they are losing money on the new deformity reform. People live off the crowns you have in your pocket. That is why I and the government have been very clear that we need to follow the evolution of the living conditions in relation to the disability reform. That is why I am pleased and proud that we actually had a transitional arrangement that made it possible for 30,000 fewer people to have significantly increased taxes from one day to the next, in a short time. We will follow the unintended effects if there are new unintended effects, but as of today I am not aware of any unintended effects that we were not aware of when we dealt with the reform in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e713	I have the impression that my desire and the desire for a total collapse are that one of them just goes in and investigates the unintended effects. While we used to base ourselves on Nav’s estimate — and that’s what we need to do — that showed that someone was losing, the estimates from the tax rate now show that 127,000 are going to lose on the reform. When we discussed this in Stortinget, there was a broad consensus that one should go into these details because the map we are now basing on, and to which the Council of State refers, is based on estimates of effects. But now we're actually starting to get real effects from real people, who have real fear that they'll come out worse than we thought they'd do when the reform was unanimously adopted in Stortinget. When we then know that, in addition, for the same group, the Council of State has proposed significant cuts in child supplements – fortunately not everything adopted in the Stortinget – and that it is proposed to cut aid and organisation grants for the same group, there are many people who, in total, now feel an insecurity that I am concerned about. That is why I repeat the question: can the Council of State envisage following up with further knowledge in relation to the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e722	As I also said in the own-initiative debate, we can make a reference in the revised budget, among other things. on something in the last word change I had with Andersen in the own-initiative debate, which I think is a good input: how does it turn out in relation to VTA bonus schemes? The vast majority of people come out better, but it is important to go to work more closely, look at this in greater detail and like to make a review in the revised budget, as I also said in that debate. This is also due to the tax conversions. It was also known to the representative Andersen when the government of his own party presented the misreform in Stortinget. Even Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen already said about the occupational pension schemes that some could lose up to NOK 10 000 due to the conversion of the tax base. It's what this government has taken over. That is why we have made a transitional arrangement. I record that the previous government did not have such a transitional arrangement, but was familiar with the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e729	Follow-up questions are given – first Anette Trettebergstien.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e732	Although the Council of State emphasises the unfavorable reform, it is the case that very many people today experience cuts that have nothing to do with the reform, such as: cut in the car system or failure to adjust the price of auxiliary and basic benefits. In addition, many are concerned that from next year, with government proposals, they will have smaller child supplements. It also had nothing to do with the bad reform, but some Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right chose to do in the budget. Luckily, the Christian People's Party and the Left moderated it as a party of the Council of State, the Advance Party, and the Right originally proposed in the context of the budgetary procedure – a cut that was gross, which would lead to many thousands of miscarriages with children less living for, and which would probably create more child poverty. Does the council regret that he proposed such a rough cut in the child supplement and created great fear and uncertainty around the situation of many decapitators, or would the council propose the same cut again?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e741	The Council of State does not regret the proposals he has made on behalf of the Government, and he deals with the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Then I would like to respond to the representative of the Trettebergstien in charge of the car arrangement. For those in work and education, it is the same car system that is in force today as under the previous government. Unlike the previous government, we have strengthened the car system for families with severely disabled children. The previous government gave these families a trailer to have wheelchairs and stuff like that. We say no to the trailer, yes to the car. I'm glad, I, because this government closes holes in the social security network, and that we've got a better car arrangement for those families that so badly need it, that have heavily disabled kids, and that at the same time we're keeping the good car system for those who are in work and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e748	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e751	A difference between the government parties and the SV is that we believe that the vast majority of the losses that people have suffered as a result of the bad reform are unintentional. It was not the intention of the reform, and the consequences, in our view, are contrary to the assumptions of the Stortinget in 2011. During the examination of the UN reform in 2011, the then Wraith representative Eriksson wrote in his party’s remark that: «Amendments to tax rules must not affect current benefits and the effect on the disabled person must be the same». I very much agree with Robert Eriksson in 2011. What makes the change in perception happen since 2011? What has changed in the views of the Council of State Eriksson on this matter since 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e762	There is nothing that has changed in my view of the matter. It was a very good comment the representative referred to, and was the whole basis for putting in place a transitional regime – precisely because it saw the challenges, that problem, already in 2011. I record that it was a well-lit issue – which the representative Bergstøs party did not take over. They did not support that comment, and they would not have a transitional arrangement, although it was well known that it would be less tax-related. For those who find it worse in tax terms: we need to follow the evolution of living conditions, and we need to provide targeted measures for those who have to be affected, especially children. But I also want to remind you that those who have the smallest benefits are the ones that are now coming out better. I think that is a good social policy. It is good social policy to lift disability, give more dissatisfaction to those who had at least before, and at the same time facilitate targeted measures for those who then had to... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e771	The President will allow one more main question, from the representative Rasmus Hansson, but must reserve himself against follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e774	The question goes to the Minister for Industry and says: Stateside coal production at Svalbard has long been an anachronism in both Norwegian oil policy and climate policy perspective. The very argument for Norwegian oil and gas production is that it should save Europe from the coal it exports to Europe from Svalbard. At the same time, the coal business is the least forward-looking business we have at Svalbard. Yesterday, fortunately, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to come up with a plan for a sustainable and renewablely oriented policy on Svalbard – in the swallowing news coming. At the same time, we know that the coal industry is now running short. It's a shame for the company, but it's a good thing for the world that coal prices fall. So the company has asked for 450 million. kr in loans to ensure continued operation. The question to the Minister of Industry is whether the government is considering granting a loan that is in practice a subsidy of unprofitable coal production, and what will be the timing of any such policy – which the Workers' Party has agreed to and says has nothing to do with climate policy, but which may be more consistent with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e783	With regard to the major issue of the future of coal activities at Svalbard, it will be clarified in the notified Svalbard Notice, for which the Minister of Justice is responsible. I refer to the decision that exists – there is a large majority in the Stortinget behind – namely that coal is to be operated on Svalbard until 2022. This is how we received an application from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani for a loan of 450 million. kr. We received it in the middle of January. The thing is for treatment, it's urgent, the situation in Great Norwegian is very serious. On the government side, we are committed to resolving the situation and trying to find solutions that help us maintain housing and business at Svalbard. It's very important to us. Of course, with regard to the details of the procedure, I cannot go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e790	If the government actually estimates to give 450 million. in loans to an unprofitable coal company, there must be some assessment of the timing of such policies. The question is asked: Does the government plan to subsidize Norwegian coal activities until 2022 if it continues to be unprofitable, or does the government have any idea of what is the time perspective for sustaining unprofitable coal activities at Svalbard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e800	I ask for an understanding that I simply cannot comment on the details of a matter that is being dealt with in the department. But our aim is to maintain housing and business at Svalbard. It's important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e805	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e817	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud and Sveinung Rotevatn respectively to the Minister for Transport are postponed to the next Question Time when the Minister for Transport has left. Question 3, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Minister for Climate and Environment has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e861	Questions 1, 2 and 3 are postponed until the next Question Time. The first question to be answered after these changes is question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e870	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «In the second year, patients from Groruddalen, who have formally overfilled Aarhus as a local hospital, are sent to four different hospitals. There is an unsustainable situation, which weakens the cooperation between local health services and hospitals. It is only reopening of Aker that can quickly provide the area with enough local hospital capacity, as the City Council and the City Council of Oslo also say. The councils said they were open to this all in the autumn of 2013. There is now a need for an overall decision to coordinate Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals and Aarhus. How will the Council of State clarify this with Health South-East?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e879	I do not agree with the claim made by the representative of Bohemia, namely that it is unsustainable that some patients who initially have Akershu University Hospital as a local hospital may also be sent to other hospitals. However, I agree that this requires a good dialogue between all those involved, in particular as regards follow-up after hospital discharge. Akershu University Hospital still sometimes has a high patient coverage in the somatic bed areas, especially in the winter months. The agreement with the Diakon home on relief is such a measure, and more is done. The agreement means that ten patients per day from the ten districts of Oslo that belong to the Ahus area can be offered at the Diakon home hospital. This year’s agreement also means that patients can come to follow-up control at the Diakon home after printing. This could improve the patient’s course of emergency procedures. In addition, Aarhus was relieved by the Inland Hospital Kongswinger for some patient groups. Health South-East is exploring future opportunities for optimising operations, tasks and work sharing for specialist health services in Oslo and Akershus. The results of this work shall be presented in December. Oslo University Hospital is planning an idea phase where they look at the need to upgrade construction and plans for new construction. Patient progression and capacity in the future are part of this work. The Governing Board has recently decided to focus its work on three options: the zero option, i.e. that today’s location continues, that the establishment is shared between Gaustad South and Ullevål, and that the establishment is partly concentrated on Gaustad South. In addition, an assessment of the need for a new local hospital south of Oslo or east of Oslo shall be carried out. On 9 April the Management Board adopted a proposal for the first stage of construction of the options concerned, including a description of the activity content of all three options. They also decided that the organisation of the cancer area should be investigated in particular. Today, there is a significant activity at Aker Hospital, both for Oslo University Hospital, Sunnaas and Oslo Municipality. About 1 000 employees from Oslo University Hospital work at Aker, among others. with outpatient activities in somatic, day-and-day rehabilitation, drug treatment and surgery. The hospital also has emergency activities in the field of surgery and urology. However, the majority of hospital activity in Aker is planned. The activities appropriate for Aker in the future are part of Oslo University Hospital’s idea phase work, which will be presented to the Management Board in December 2015. As the representative is aware, I have no record of this. It must be appropriate to control which locations a user uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e894	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I am surprised that he does not agree that it is not a good situation to be sent here and there between four hospitals when entering local hospitals from these areas. It was supposed to be a temporary solution, it was underlined when it was introduced. It has come far beyond the temporary when we are now in the second year. I would like to follow up by asking how the Council of State looks at the fact that at the last board meeting, last Thursday, at Oslo University Hospital, the Medical Association and the Trade Union put forward a proposal asking for a concrete investigation into local hospitals and the possibility of using Aker – how much it would cost, etc. – in line with what, among other things. Oslo City Council and City Council have said about the need for it. This was voted down by the owner. Does the Council agree that it could be important and interesting to get a concrete analysis of what this would cost, and what could this solution look like?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e903	There is a difference between whether a situation is good and whether a situation is unsustainable. The representative of Bohemia said in his original question that the situation today is unsustainable. I do not agree with that. I also believe that it has been improved by the fact that the patients who come to the Diakon home can also get their back checks there. Of course, this is not a wish as a permanent situation, but that it is unsustainable, I do not agree. The board of Oslo University Hospital has decided to investigate the need for a new local hospital south or east of Oslo. They will also, of course, include an assessment of the premises that already exist, including Aker Hospital. It's also about which phase you're in now. Now, one will develop and explore three different main options, and then take advantage of the conclusions of the Governing Board meeting in December on which one will go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e910	It is good that the Council of State says that this is not desirable as a permanent situation. And then we have a common starting point. There is an important difference in what the Medical Association and the Trade Union wanted, and that was voted for at the board meeting. They wanted a concrete investigation, while Oslo University Hospital in its formulations pushes the investigation of the local hospital much more in front of them. If you wanted to get a concrete job going, it would be natural to vote for it. What I want to ask is whether the Council of States, which stresses that he has no record, and which already said in the autumn of 2013 that he was open to the use of Aker, will contribute to a clarification, for now it is that Oslo University Hospital says that these patients have been transferred to Aarhus, while Aarhus says that they are not responsible for Aker, and Health South-East has only taken up ad hoc solutions. Does the Council of State see the need for an overall clarification? There are three parties that do not stick their legs in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e919	Firstly, Oslo University Hospitals are in line with other health care establishments subject to a fully-explained system for investigating the type of development and renewal they are facing. There is an established system, which was established under the previous government and which they are obliged to follow. It is a system that does not mean that they can take shortcuts along the way, and thus start e.g. a concrete examination of some alternatives without actually having seen this in an overall context. It's also the process that the board has set up. It is important that one sees these things in an overall context, and does not draw conclusions that lock the ability of the board to assess this completely. Health South-East has taken the overall approach the representative is calling for, and will present a separate case on it in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e930	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: "God plan that I should receive this gift of grace, this spiritual talent," says a well-known South African pastor. You can call the same pastor for 14 kroner per month. minutes, for example to protect you from diseases such as cancer, or to increase your chances of getting well if you are ill, while explaining that all disease is caused by ‘an invasion of a stranger, unwanted power’. How can the Council of States ensure that such so-called ‘healers’ who exploit and trick people in a vulnerable situation are stopped?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e939	The law on alternative treatment for disease balances different interests — on the one hand, the patient’s right to self-determination and freedom of choice and, on the other hand, the patient’s demands for safety. In principle, any person may offer alternative treatment, but there are several important legal constraints. As a general rule, only healthcare professionals can carry out treatments that may pose a serious health risk, treat general-risk infectious diseases and treat serious diseases, including cancer. Infringements of the law may be reported to the police and prosecuted. The State Health Authority will assess the police report if they become aware of possible offences and have been granted access to prosecution. The patient can even report the police if it is believed that treatment has taken place in violation of the law. Access to the marketing of alternative treatments is specified in a separate regulation. The placing on the market cannot be used to claim that a form of treatment has an effect on specific diseases or disorders or otherwise gives such an impression. Nor may it be placed on the market for treatment or treatment of diseases which the treatmenter is not allowed to practice or treat. It is the Consumer Ombudsman who supervises the placing on the market. In the preparatory work of the law, it has been argued that general religious activities, including prayers for sick people, fall outside the scope of the law. Religious activities are activities rooted in a belief and the rituals associated with it. Some forms of alternative treatment may also include elements of outlook, world view or religious belief, but nevertheless appear to be treatments in the sense of the law. In order to assess whether one is facing general religious activities or treatment activities, it is necessary, among other things, to assess whether one is facing general religious activities or treatment activities. consider the basis for the action, the context in which the action takes place and whether it is a professional activity, whether remuneration is paid, and, in that case, the amount and form of the remuneration. It is not illegal in itself to intercede for fellow people who are ill. On the contrary, it's part of it to exercise its faith. To charge for it, on the other hand, I ask great questions as to whether it is ethically correct and in accordance with Christian faith. I ask for an understanding that I cannot go into the specific matter to which the representative refers. The important thing for me as Minister of Health and Care is that the patient is given good treatment and not induced to refrain from offers that have been proven to be able to cure or relieve the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e954	Thank you for a good and complementary answer. Governments are concerned with several important things: marketing, the health side and the religious side. I think it would have been important that the inspections had taken a new round on this. I understand that there have been supervision and rounds of this earlier, and I think it might be time to take a new round to see if that type of business and other type of business in the same street is consistent with what is required by law. Could the Council of State consider asking for supervision if they would like to take a round on just this type of activity, to see if they are complying with the requirements of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e963	With regard to the activities of the Health Authority, we are clear that there should be a good arm's length gap between the selection of priority areas by the Health Authority, over which they are overseeing, and the political management of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, precisely in order to prevent the administration of supervision in areas where the Minister of Health and Care might have an interest in its oversight, but which are not necessarily the areas of the highest risk. It is therefore important that supervision itself assesses the areas in which it is to be supervised. It is, of course, possible – for those who feel supported by this – to complain about this type of activity. In this area, there are also many difficult balances — between freedom of religion and the individual’s ability to choose what he or she believes in, and at the same time the expectation that people have an ethical framework around their activities, which they choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e972	The reason I ask this question is a reading article on 24 March in the newspaper of the doctor Preben Aavitsland, where he addresses some of these issues. I have looked at the issues in the days after and I see that the marketing is so aggressive that one, for example. says you can cure cancer. One also says that medical science has not carried out cancer research and cancer treatment in the last 60 years. There are quite serious claims some of these healers make. So I think that just that we're dealing with this case here today, and that we're focusing on it, maybe helping to make the supervisory authorities take an interest in this. It is clear that if serious sick people resort to this type of treatment instead of having professional follow-up, it is serious. So thank you for good and complementary answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e979	I totally agree with that. Some of what is marketed and offered is likely to be affected by both the Marketing Act and, where appropriate, the Alternative Treatment Act. It is then possible for different public authorities to intervene. It is also possible for those who experience that they have been deceived in this kind of context, to report or complain about the offer given. I think this is a terribly difficult area, because it is an area where we often have a discussion about whether we should regulate more and more clearly and try to get a greater distinction between serious and unprofessional actors. But the challenge is that we'll often give the impression that we're putting a public approval stamp on something that doesn't have a documented effect. It leads us quickly into a new dilemma. But it's a difficult and comprehensive topic, and I want to thank the questioner for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e990	‘As of 31 December 2013, there were 1,275 dialysis patients in Norway. Well over half of these are chronic dialysis patients. In the last 10 years, the number of dialysis patients has increased by 43 percent. There is currently no organised holiday offer for dialysis patients, either in Norway or abroad. Do the Councils see the need for a holiday offer for dialysis patients in Norway, and how can the State in that case contribute to the realisation of such an offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e997	Dialysis patients have the opportunity to receive treatment in several hospitals in Norway within the scheme free of hospital choice. Norwegian patients have the possibility of receiving healthcare in the EU/EEA area under certain conditions and conditions. This follows, among other things: of the regulation on social benefits for health care received in other EEA countries. The patient has the right to cover health care expenditure in other EEA countries if the health care corresponds to the help the patient would receive in Norway. The patient himself needs to provide health care and apply for reimbursement from HELFO afterwards. Reimbursement may be granted up to the same amount as equivalent health care would be charged to the public in Norway, but never more than the actual costs of the patient. Patients who are entitled to the necessary health care under the second paragraph of Section 2-1b of the Patient and User Rights Act may apply to HELFO for a prior commitment. This means that the patient can be told in advance whether the healthcare is eligible for reimbursement and what is the maximum amount he/she could be reimbursed. The aim is to reduce the financial risk to patients who wish to receive particularly costly treatments in other EEA countries. It is voluntary to apply for prior commitments, and there is no condition for reimbursement that the patient has received a prior commitment. Furthermore, persons subject to social security legislation in one EEA country are entitled to health care services that become necessary during temporary residence in another EEA country, for example: in the case of holiday trips. Acute disease treatment is not the only one that occurs during the stay that is covered by the scheme. The scheme also covers ongoing treatments that relate to a chronic disease already observed, such as: dialysis in case of chronic renal failure. For practical reasons, the patient and the foreign treatment institution must have entered into an agreement on this type of treatment in advance. Expenditure on treatment shall be borne by the authorities of the country of residence, i.e. by HELFO. The patient must demonstrate the right to healthcare to the treatment institution by presenting European health insurance cards. It is true that there are no separate holiday arrangements specifically for Norwegian dialysis patients, but the scheme that I have now described ensures an opportunity to combine a planned trip with planned treatment also for patients who are dependent on dialysis treatment in the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1010	Thanks for the answer. Dialysis is a vital treatment for people with total renal impairment. Their lives depend entirely on access and proximity to a dialysis machine. For those on dialysis every two days, with a treatment that takes 3-4 hours, and in addition possibly has a one-hour journey, life consists of three to four days a week of treatment. It goes without saying that it is demanding to combine this with both work, family life and social life, and not least training and physical birth. Going on a journey for different purposes is also quite challenging in such a situation. One is completely dependent on the capacity where one then will move. Summer poses a particular challenge, since the health care system is to leave. It's pushing the capacity. All dialysis patients shall be provided with physical treatment and training and receive continuous information on social rights and support and assistance. For many patients, the offer seems somewhat absent. Does the State Council have an opinion of the social professional work related to dialysis patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1019	I very much agree with the representative's description of the challenges facing this patient group. It is clear that having the opportunity to travel on vacation, to stay for a little longer than at home, may be extra important for this patient group, which is usually so locked to its home. So I see absolutely that it could have a great social significance for these patients about this code that I now described was clearer when it came to these services, so it might have been easier to plan this type of travel and vacation without having to know the code in detail itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1024	A number of measures for dialysis patients are recommended in the Health Directorate Action Plan for the Prevention and Treatment of Chronic Kidney Disease, which applied from 2011 to this year. Cancer patients are an example of a patient group such as has the Montebello Centre for Family-Based Residences. They also have the Vardecenter for mastering, physical activity, nutrition and quality of life. There are no similar offers for chronic dialysis patients. All honours include: The cancer association for helping to get up such offers. In Valdres, Oppland, where I come from, they have a newly built local medical centre. There are the six dialysis places with shifts on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. They can double the capacity by putting the other days into service and thus giving room for guest dialysis, which is, of course, funded and is a right. In Valdres is also the Beitostølen Health Sports Centre and several other rehabilitation institutions. There may be special facilities here for an experiment with a holiday dialysis offer. Does the Council of State see the possibility of contributing to such an experiment? There's no big investment in infrastructure here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1035	I think this is a very interesting issue. I've been to Valdre's Local Medical Center myself. It is a centre that shows how health services in Norway should be organised for the future. I have also seen their offer in dialysis, and at the same time have been several times at the Beitostolen Health Sports Centre and seen the fantastic offer that they have there. So I think this is an exciting thought, which we're open to looking at. It is also great if it is taken up as an initiative by those involved and affected locally, and possibly by patients’ own associations. But we have a positive attitude to find good, practical solutions to a cooperation between the public health services and a private non-profit foundation that Beitostolen Health Sports Center is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1046	‘Health is primarily organised at physical meetings between treatment and patients. However, new technologies open up other possibilities for consultation in healthcare, for example via the network. However, the pricing system in the health sector does not support this, and thus does not contribute to the promotion of new methods of patient contact or treatment. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the health sector has a tariff system to support good, flexible use of technologies and contact personnel between patients/users and healthcare?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1053	The focus on ICT and communication is one of the six carriers to provide the patient’s healthcare. Digital services provide new opportunities to involve and treat the patient in comparison to what traditional physical meetings between treatment and patients provide. I'm concerned that we're using these possibilities in a good way, and we're already on our way to the goal. Healthorge.no is the gateway of citizens to public health online. The portal is continuously developing with new services. This year, digital dialogue between the population and the permanent staff is being developed and tested, where the resident is to be able to order hours at regular intervals, ask questions to the doctor and renew prescriptions. Over the year, we are launching a national welfare technology project for distance treatment and follow-up of patients with chronic disease. The size has allowed 30 million. kr for this project, which will also assess framework conditions for new forms of work and the use of technologies, including funding models. We see that video communications are increasingly used between hospitals, specialists, municipalities and patients themselves. It may include the follow-up of chronic diseases, rehabilitation and wound treatment. Regional health enterprises and health directors will work on a digital community service project in the specialist health service. The solutions shall facilitate contact between the specialist healthcare service and the patient. The project also looks at what is needed to ensure the proper implementation of digital services. Access to good, user-friendly and secure ICT solutions is important. Equally important is that these solutions are actually used, and proper funding is a key to achieving it. When hospitals use telemedicine solutions, this, with some reservations, is included in the effort-driven funding scheme. I have registered that improvements may be necessary. I have therefore commissioned the Health Directorate to review the financing arrangements of the specialist health service. The aim of the review is to identify development needs, including: for digital interaction. The time limit for this task shall be 1 May. Determiners may already require a tariff for e-consultation. The tariff includes, by date, only textual communication, but we will take the initiative to discuss the tariff with the fixed rates. This development will be seen in the context of proposals in the Primary Health Communication, which the government is about to submit to the Stortinget in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1072	Thanks for the answer. I hear that the Minister of Health and the Department are about to do a job that we started on our guard, and that's very good. Both the Minister of Health and I are very concerned that we will get good use of ICT in the health sector. I know a very good project, and I can mention it as an example, namely that in the follow-up of LAR patients at the University Hospital in North Norway, we have worked with the telemedicine centre to get good online contact and online dialogue between the therapist, treatment and user, and it has been very successful. But what I've heard and been told is that if you don't change this tariff system, this development will go much slower than we all want. So I hope the Minister of Health can promise me that he will soon come up with some suggestions on how to change this. When the Minister of Health sees that he can have some concrete proposals for changes in the fare system, because I think that's what we need to get in place to make this work properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1081	As I said in my reply, the Health Directorate has already received a commission on this, and their deadline for the assignment is 1 May this year. It's not long, so we're going to follow up and look at the suggestions the directorate makes in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1086	Then I would also like to ask how the Minister of Health will handle this with patients having access to a lot of technology, where you can use apps and other things to enter their own health data, and that it represents, as the Council of Technology has recently stressed, a challenge in terms of privacy. Their recommendation is that healthnorge.no is a recommendation on apps and service providers for which the authorities make some demands in relation to the management of personal sensitive data. Is there a solution that the Minister of Health can see, that this is a service that comes through Healthnorge.no as a recommendation to patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1091	There is also a work already in progress, and Norway is also part of the World Health Organization's mHealth Programme, which is just about this, so we are working with national and also participating in a good international network to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1100	‘Over the last year, the Council of State has talked a lot about simplification. It is my experience that few of the country's food producers have noticed some special changes in the time spent on administration and other paperwork. How much time does the Council estimate that Norwegian food producers save through the adopted simplification measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1107	I have previously answered the representative Pollestad on a similar question. Firstly, the simplification measures adopted in the context of agricultural production in 2014 will be implemented from the financial year 2015. Many of these measures will not have a noticeable impact in a few years’ time. For example, a comprehensive three-year development and digitisation of the application process for production grants will not be marked by the farmers until the system is operational. Secondly, and most importantly, simplification is, as I have explained earlier to the representative Pollestad, much more than the time the farmer spends filling out an application form. In the context of the 2014 agricultural settlement, a working group led by County Governor Lars Sponheim was also set up with a mandate to continue working on the simplification of the instruments of the agricultural agreement. The Group shall submit a final report by the end of 2015 but submitted on 15 March 2015 an interim report on the agricultural settlement of the year. I would recommend to the representative Pollestad and others who are interested in simplifying the instruments of the agricultural agreement to read the whole report, and in particular Chapter 3.1. Three key areas are identified which can be simplified: ‘1. Reducing the overall size of schemes so as to reduce the number of schemes to keep track of: 2nd@item: inlistbox Simplify the single system legislation to make it easier for users and management to understand 3rd@item: inlistbox Simplify and streamline the management of the arrangements [[regardless of number or legislation]] The working group also points out that simplification measures have several target groups. This is simplification for entrepreneurs, farmers and industry. There may be a reduction in paperwork, a reduction in the level of regulation, a simplification of compliance with the objectives of the individual scheme. It's simplification for the administration. There may be a reduction in red tape, a reduction in the cost of implementing policies, a reduction in the risk of errors, the efficient use of ICT. It is simplification for the general public and politicians for reasons of democracy and legitimacy. This is well in line with the answers I have given to the Stortingen on simplification of agricultural policy in the past. And I still believe that there is no doubt that the agricultural settlement in 2014 was a significant step in the right direction. This was the beginning of a completely necessary simplification of agricultural policy. It may seem that the representative Pollestad is concerned that simplification is not going fast enough. That's interesting, considering that the simplification work was still for eight years when the Center Party crashed. I can guarantee that I will help keep the pressure on this work up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1138	I am well aware that this question has been asked earlier. I am also well aware that the Council of State evenly boasts of the great simplification work that has been done. Now, the Council of State has been sitting for a year and a half, and it is expected that one will have to have a clearer response and effect/effect of the measures taken. I have read this report, in particular Chapter 3.1. I have also read the mandate of the Sponheim Committee. It states that there is a need to focus on simplification for traders and simpler management. One must be able to expect the Council of State to say whether the individual farmer will save more than half an hour a year on the simplification measures implemented so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1145	It is very difficult for the council to know how much time each farmer spends filling out his application papers. It will probably be different from farmer to farmer too. What we know is that the changes that have been made will make it easier to process the applications. The fact that dairy farming, for example, are treated in the same way — one no longer has two legislations, but one — makes it easier for the administration to deal with the applications. In addition, we know that there will be less control requirements after the changes that have been made, for example: in the case of area payments. There you've flattened out the grants to the area because it'll be harder to be small on paper, but really big to take out the extra effects of the smaller ones getting a little bit more in the past. So it's very important with control needs, because management spends a lot of time and resources on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1152	I am aware that the Council of State will not comment on the forthcoming agricultural settlement and the government's offer there. But there is every reason to believe that there will also be new measures that can boast of the next few years. The Sponheim Committee has provided a rather brief menu of actions. Will an assessment of the impact of these measures be made if they are introduced as part of the agricultural holding?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1157	It is not right for me to advance what had to be done in the agricultural business, but what I can assure the representative Pollestad is that simplification is going to be a very important factor in the offer that the state is going to make this year. I believe that it is also in the interest of the industry itself. I am very pleased that the Sponheim Committee has made some suggestions already this year. They're going to work out the year to deliver their final report, and of course, I look forward to getting the final report, where I hope you'll come up with many, many good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1168	I would like to congratulate the Council of State on an exciting temporary assignment. My question to the Minister is: ‘A study carried out by the MMI for the Norwegian Blind Federation shows that 8 out of 10 students who rely on textbooks are getting books too late. The time limit for ordering student typeface books to be ready for school start in August is 20 January. It's Statped who's responsible for the students getting the books. Unfortunately, more people experience that the books are severely delayed, and in the worst case they do not come at all. Does the Council of State think this is acceptable and what measures will be taken to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1175	It is serious if children and students experience getting help and needed arrangements too late. Adapted teaching materials are a central tool for creating the most inclusive school possible. Students who depend on adapted textbooks, like everyone else, must have their textbooks at the agreed time. It is an important task for Statped to adapt teaching materials in order to help everyone to participate in education in the best possible way. Statped organizes a large number of textbooks each year, and as far as Statped is aware, the schools get what they're ordering. Statped is within a period of conversion. A very central part of the conversion work is the establishment and use of a system that makes it easy for users to order services from Statped. The system shall ensure equal treatment of applications and equivalent access to Statped services. In the past, there has been no single system, nor has there been a single system for ordering learning resources. This is something that is now being done, and it is a high priority in the conversion work. It will often be a certain delivery time when a school orders a teaching material from Statped. This is related to production time. The delivery time for a custom edition book depends primarily on whether the book is already available as a custom edition. Audiobooks that already exist are delivered immediately by post. Electronic books in Word format can be delivered as e-mails without waiting time. Writing on paper must be printed and bound and may have some production time, but not more than two weeks, even during periods of high activity. Books that are not available in the adapted edition are probably the majority of the cases where the books are too late for students. The adaptation of a textbook can take from a few weeks to a half year or more, depending on its scale. It is a major effort to adapt the content of pedagogical and technical to a different format, without the use of visual aids. This is the background for Statped operating with deadlines for ordering school books. In most subjects, there is a teaching on the market. Schools with visually impaired students usually want the same teaching as they use in an adapted edition. Statped tries to achieve this as much as possible. However, the time-consuming production of new books means that production will have to be limited and schools can be offered another work covering the subject and the stage. In other words, the production of specially adapted learning materials and time of delivery depends on, inter alia: the number of orders, the type of order involved and the time of the order. Based on the Blind Federation study, Statped has informed that they want to go through their ordering procedures thoroughly and that in a dialogue with the schools they will examine how the business can improve the process. I believe it is necessary for Statped to carry out such an investigation, and the Ministry of Knowledge will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1196	I thank the Council of State for its response, but I am afraid that system reviews and procedural reviews are not sufficient. A concrete example is the third-class Remi from Witteseid. He had twelve ordered apprenticeships, and at school only four of them were in place. Still, he lacks two of the books — eight months without the textbook that the rest of the class has, eight months of creative adaptation from teachers and parents, eight months of little disregard. And Remi is not alone, because over half of those who depend on organized learning materials because of visual impairments have experienced that the books are delayed. Then I am afraid that procedural reviews are not enough, and I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: will she propose additional measures than procedural reviews to ensure that the students get the books to school start?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1201	I think the example shown here from the representative is a very clear indication that things are not like they should do. As I said in my first answer, all students have a right to access teaching materials that they can make use of, based on what they have. That's why it's so important that we now get to this review. In my first answer I also stressed that the department will follow up on this point, to make sure that we get to the service via Statped that is the prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1206	I'm afraid this has quite a big impact, because the same study that I referred to in the main question showed that the lack of organisation in the educational cycle makes blind and feeble people have challenges to adapt. Feeling included in the group — feeling included in the peers community at school — is one of the most important prerequisites for school learning. Does the Council of State see the challenges of lack of teaching materials, not only in fulfilling the curriculum objectives, but also in the sense of belonging to a group, of being included and taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1211	The Council of State sees this, and that is why it is an objective to have access to the same tools, or similar teaching materials, as do the students with whom you associate. But it is clear that there may well be situations where orders will be sent very quickly. Then it is all the more important that Statped's side can also be involved and see if temporary solutions exist if there is any waiting time if many orders arrive at a late stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1221	It's nice to see Aspaker back in the school role. I have the following questions for the functioning Minister of Knowledge: ‘My question is about the admission requirement for the teacher’s study. The higher education admission code says that you have to have the grade 4.0 in mathematics to get into a teacher's education. In reply to written questions from the undersigned, the Council of State answers that the requirement is a three-step forward. Can the State Council clarify which of these two different answers is correct?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1230	As the representative points out, it is now stipulated that in the field of mathematics it is necessary to have the character 4.0 from secondary education in order to be admitted to primary school teacher training and teacher training from the autumn of 2016. The Teacher Lift also states: «The government will take compensatory measures in the event of increased recording requirements.» In practice, this means that candidates with a grade of 3.0 will be assessed for admission if they consist of an initial course involving a mathematical level equivalent to the grade 4 in the common subject of mathematics. As State Councillor Røe Isaksen concluded in his reply to the representative Giske, to his question for a written answer, the necessary regulatory changes will be made as soon as possible. The final result is that everyone who starts elementary school teacher or lecturer education has a level of mathematics at least equivalent to grade 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1246	It would have been nice to get a very clear answer as to whether this course should have the status of an advanced course with sensors and a new character, 4, or whether that would not be the requirement. On 18 June 2013, the then educational spokesperson for the Right, Elisabeth Aspaker, said to the evening post.no the following about such a course at Nesna: ‘There is evidence of a lack of understanding of the need to ensure the quality of the teachers of the future. It is absolutely incredible that they resort to a practice that is such a clear circumvention of a decision in the Stortinget." She goes on to say, ‘If such an offer is to be made by higher education, there must be a summer math course with external sensors, if appropriate.’ My question is whether the Council of Aspaker agrees with the representative of Aspaker that there should be a course of higher education which will end with an examination, and by 4, formally, as a character.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1261	Work is now being done in the Department on how to organise this course. What is an indisputable fact is that no one should be able to start training as a teacher until they can document mathematical knowledge equivalent to level 4. That means that if you take the grade 3 and you want to take the lead, you're going to think of it as a preliminary fix. This is done now to ensure that more candidates who are motivated to take learning will actually have a chance to prove that they have enough two in themselves to acquire better math skills. I have great confidence that this should be done in such a way that you can prove that it is the grade 4 and the level on which you start with fellow students who are listed with the grade 4 as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1266	Now the Council of State was a little unclear again, because now she said that it was the ‘character 4 and the level’ that should apply. But I understand to the Council of State that it is not the character 4 that is crucial, but that one has the competence of the corresponding 4. This is quite identical to the Workers' Party's proposal, namely that the limit of 3 – that is an absolute limit – should be maintained, but that those with only 3 have to take a lead to gain that competence. What is alarming about the proposal that is now in the regulation is that this also opens up for those students with the grade 2. Now you say that the rating is 4, but that those who don't have 4 have to take an advance – that is, everyone who has passed: 2 or 3. It was introduced and we had a limit of 3. My question is, will the absolute limit of 3 be passed, and then you take an advance if you don't have 4, or is it that both those who have 2 and those who have 3, can advance and get up to a level equal to 4? It is very alarming that the right in this case lowers the absolute intake limit for teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1273	Let me underline: there is no lower limit. On the contrary, it is stated that in order to start training as a teacher, a level of knowledge must be defined as what is needed to achieve the grade 4. It is actually possible to determine what is needed to achieve the grade 4. It's also the way that those who are going to qualify to enter into a course like this have to have the character 3 initially. The rating 4 is the starting point for all those starting in the autumn of 2016, and then the grade 3 is the one that allows you to try it through an advance rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1278	Case No. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-15.ana.ud561e1291	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
