ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e76	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e84	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the benefits of publicly funded welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e89	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e92	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Kirsti Bergstø, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to make representations to stop the stopwatches and increase the staffing in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e97	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e126	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes and Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left, Socialist Left Party and Green Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e135	Today is a historic day. Extensive work is to be rounded up today with debate and voting in Stortinget. Most attention is probably given to the decision to withdraw the fund from the coal, but at the same time, the Storting must also make larger and smaller adjustments to the management of the world's largest state pension fund. As the rapporteur, I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its excellent work. The comprehensive consensus that exists today is perhaps the most obvious proof of this. I have had close contact with all the parties, and through constructive cooperation, we have reached a common agreement across traditional political dividing lines, which I will again call historic. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget was not unanimous when one decided to establish ethical guidelines. Today, we are unanimous in pulling the oil fund out of the coal and making several other important changes. I would particularly like to thank the representative Svein Fleet from the Right. More than anyone, he has fought to achieve broad consensus, and he has a large part of the honor of the consensus we have reached today. Today we're writing climate history, and I'm not sure if the presidency was deliberately the date choice, or if one was just lucky, because today – the same day that we're making this decision to pull the oil fund out of the coal – the world's environmental day is marked all over the world. The slogan for the environmental day this year is «Seven Billion Dreams. One Planet. Consumer with Care.’, and worldwide, it is today marked that both nature, human beings and the world economy depend on us managing Earth’s resources in a sustainable way. I can't imagine a better marking of the World's Environment Day than the one we have here today in Stortinget. As always on environmental days, there will be some talk with great words, but today the day ends with action, when the Storting makes a powerful decision, which we already see inspires to waves of action all over the globe. That's how this day becomes different, and it's the translation from word to action that makes it historic. A year ago, I stood on this pulpit and was disappointed – disappointed that we were unable to gather the majority that then existed to pull the fund out of the coal. Today I stand here and am incredibly proud that we have managed to bring together a unanimous big deal behind a decision that a year ago seemed completely impossible. Marsjordren from Stortinget is clear. The SPU shall exit from coal mines and coal power companies and the limit shall be clearly raised to 30 pst. the company's activities or share of its revenue. It was an important prerequisite for the Workers' Party that the March Earth from Stortinget became so clear, and that the government had a clear timetable to deal with. It is now the government's job to operate this decision, but important prerequisites lie at the heart of it. The decision states that ‘mining companies which themselves or through units they control’ are included, which means that one cannot only hide the coal production of subsidiaries. The decision also states that the 30 pst limit is the rule. This will involve massive sales in companies with their principal activity in coal. The Ministry of Finance has itself estimated its holdings at a value of 40 to 50 billion. SEK in 70-80 companies. At the same time, emphasis is placed on forward-looking assessments. This means that companies that plan to reduce their share of coal should be viewed positively, while at the same time looking negatively at companies that plan to invest further in coal. This is how the new product-based extraction criterion becomes a tool for responsible management. Together with the new behavioral criterion for climate change and emissions, we have strengthened this work considerably this year, and I have great expectations for NBIM's follow-up and operationalisation of this whole chain of instruments. At the same time, we have taken care of the division of responsibilities and roles that characterise the management of the fund. The majority takes care of the decision in principle. Operationalization takes NBIM, the Ethics Council and government off. The shouts of exultation after the consensus has been known have been many, but the cynics have queueed to criticize the headless populace on the Stortinget. There are two arguments that have fascinated me especially, and as I will comment – first the claim that the extraction of coal has politicized the management of the fund. There's a certain irony about the Storting being criticized for running politics; usually it's the opposite. But these critics probably need a history lesson: it was politics when the oil fund was set up. It was policy when the ethical guidelines were introduced. It was politics when we pulled out of tobacco and weapons. And yes, it's politics to draw the oil fund out of the coal. There is in no way any new thing we are doing today; we are continuing a years-long tradition of step-by-step development of administration. The second claim is that the decision is mind-layer ethics, and that we are only concerned with symbol actions at Stortinget. Firstly, one should not underestimate symbols. Secondly, we have listened to experts when we have taken this decision. Thirdly, if we had only listened to these cancers, I doubt that we had at all had an oil fund. The strongest criticism came from a former Head of Mission of the Ministry of Finance, and then it may be appropriate to recall that the same department was against the ethical guidelines, and has been working against several of the most important developments that we have had from the Fund over time. Finally, it may not be so stupid that it is the elected representatives who get the last word in such matters. The Labour Party is proud of the step-by-step development of the administration – which we like to call the international gold standard in responsible administration. One would like to disagree that the next step should be the extraction of coal, but one cannot both boast of the fund and the gold standard and be contrary to all developments. The decision today may not be flawless. It doesn't cover everything either. The fund will still have some investment in coal, but we will take the first important step, and in the months and years to come, we will improve and strengthen this decision. This decision does not mark the end of any work, but the start shot itself. Today's decision once again places Norway and the administration of the SPU in the city, where we lead the development, take the first important steps and pave the way for others. I've already called this day historic, but I don't think we fully understand the scope and the implications of today's decision. They think I'm getting bigger than any of us can imagine here today. That's when you go ahead and take the first steps. I look forward to following this matter further. We also mark other important steps today: a unanimous recommendation to NBIM to establish a separate human rights expectation document, which also deals with the rights of indigenous peoples and workers. The production of expectation documents has been successful and has produced clear results. The clear position of the fund as a long-term investor contributes to extra weight in the exercise of ownership of long-term issues, such as: climate change and human rights. A document has already been prepared to clarify to companies the expectations the bank has as an investor in relation to children's rights and child labour in particular. The document is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the ILO Conventions on Child Labour. It's this work Stortinget will build on. Human rights are an area in which the Biggest is concerned, and the positive results achieved with regard to children's rights, which is an important part of human rights, should now only become more. There is little doubt that this is a complex and complex work, and it requires a comprehensive process to arrive at a comprehensive human rights expectation document. Our expectation is that one also in this document concentrates on the work around the activity of the companies in which they own. One shall not forget the other stages of the value chain, but areas where the rights of indigenous and workers are at the heart of the main activities of most companies. As I said, the Labour Party has great expectations of this expectation document. As we further develop the management of the Fund, the supervision, control and transparency of the Fund must also be developed. This ensures a wide and open debate, and only to ensure that the Norwegian people get ownership of the fund. And like everything else around the state pension fund abroad, Norway’s Bank and NBIM’s management, control and supervision system have been subject to gradual adjustment and improvement in parallel to the development of the fund. But from time to time, there is also a need for a more comprehensive review of these systems. The Labour Party is therefore very pleased that the government has followed up the interpellation debate we had in ours, and is now adding up to an overall review of the central bank law and the structure of the fund. The last time we had such a review, with subsequent changes, was when the applicable central bank law was passed in 1985 – the year I was born. The size has agreed on some important clarifications and expectations of the work that is now under way. The overall review of the governance and control structure should assess the role and mandate of the representative body as a large-scale supervisory body, discuss improvements around the objective of transparency of the Stortinge and, in particular, assess different governance arrangements, including its own governance of NBIM. The goal is not to draw up a new structure, but to start a process. I look forward to discussing different models on the basis of the selection setting. Administrative developments will continue in the coming years. I look forward in particular to next year's mention of the new organisation of the Ethics Council. The size has been clear that you will have an independent and open work in the Ethics Council, and we will read that evaluation thoroughly. I would once again like to thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation. Today is going to be historic, and I am proud that a total collapse today is gathering around a historic decision to pull the oil fund out of the coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e179	The state pension fund abroad's history is short when we look back, but its future is probably very, very long — if it's not in eternity's perspective, so at least in a multi-generational perspective. That is why the annual messages we are dealing with here are small stops along the way. There will be important issues, less important issues, major issues, but there will be stops in a long journey, and therefore I think it is important to keep up what was said when the very first news of the oil business was presented, namely in 1974, because then it was said that oil revenues were to be used to develop ‘a better quality society’. That's what they said in 1974. I guess it's permissible to say that we've been given. It should also be avoided that the result was only a rapid and uncontrolled growth in the use of material resources without changing society. What has been the result is that the yield of the oil fund has meant a great deal to the annual budgets, so the long-term management of the wealth is an important choice of values – there is an overall consideration for any government, and for any accumulation, regardless of batch colors and compositions. That's what it's been, and that's what it's going to be -- hopefully. The management of the Fund has always been characterised by the long-term, by minor adjustments and adaptations and by the widest possible political consensus. Investment strategies have been developed over time. These are the small steps, based on thorough professional assessments, economic analyses by Norwegian experts, foreign experts, financial theory, research-based knowledge, investment experience – all these are key elements in anchoring new strategies and not least changes. Important changes must always be as firmly anchored as possible in the Storting. In this way, good and long-term governance is achieved. The organisation itself in the fund is, in spite of changes, firm. The Ministry of Finance has overall responsibility, the administration is carried out by the Bank of Norway, the mandate is given by the Ministry of Finance, the anchoring is here – and the supervision is carried out by the representation of the Bank of Norway, appointed by the Stortinget. Nor should we ever lose sight of the fact that the overall objective of the fund's management is the highest possible return to moderate risk. It has to do with what I said initially, to create a ‘quality better society’, as it was said 40 years ago. More well-being can be funded through the Fund, and it has also been agreed every year – it is written from the Committee in the election, it is written in the government's notice – that the Fund is not a political instrument, although it is true, as the rapporteur says, that policy is the most important. An established expert group said last year that pursuing non-financial objectives in the management may involve costs in terms of lower welfare for future generations. So there's always going to be a balance in government, we'll always face some new challenges with every single message, both in ownership and how governance is going to happen. Changes in asset class, for example, are an example of a slow change in the investment strategy. Since 2008, the investment in property has increased, but slowly, in line with the decisions. It's been a transition from interest rate papers to shares. It is assessed to increase the limit on property investment. We will have a review of whether to open up investments in unlisted infrastructure – all with the aim of improving returns, but also improving the relationship between returns and risks in line with the overall objective. Increased investments in renewable energy are such an example, but always with the same return and risk requirements. This is also true when you gradually enter into property, which, of course, brings with it even more challenges for management, not least with the management of the knowledge of what you're going into. The Fund’s risk in climate and environmental issues will become increasingly relevant. There may be a significant financial risk of the Fund's long-term return, and that is also one of the issues raised in the discussion of investment in coal companies during the year. I'll come back to that. But the financial risk must then be balanced and seen in the context of the ethical issues raised. The expert group working on these issues in 2014 also agreed to introduce a new ‘behaviour-based’ criterion targeting greenhouse gas emissions from companies in the observation and exclusion guidelines. This was very important. The size has agreed on that. It has had a little too little focus in my opinion, because this will get the impression of a general clause that can be used in very many contexts. In addition, the government proposes to strengthen the follow-up to Norway’s ownership and risk assessment activities related to climate risk, because there is a great deal of discussion about whether ownership impact through ownership through companies is important — and more important than, for example, ownership. it with observation and exclusion. These will be two instruments that should be used in parallel, but the ownership impact is central. Responsibilities within the administration are very central. The long-term financial return will depend entirely on our sustainability in both economic, environmental and not least societal terms, and on our well-functioning and legitimate financial markets. As a result, responsible corporate governance and environmental social conditions are increasingly important in management and are becoming increasingly focused on. The ethical guidelines we have had for over ten years are constantly being updated and revised. The division of labour that we now have after a few minor changes last year, where Norway’s Bank makes decisions on observation and exclusion following advice from the Ethics Council, and where the Ministry of Finance appoints members of the Ethics Council after the appointment of the Bank of Norway, facilitates interaction of the instruments in the responsible management activities. It has to do with standard statements, it has to do with ownership exercise, it has to do with ongoing risk management, and it has to do with exclusion processes. I believe that the framework we now have provides good support for communication and coordination between the Ethics Council as adviser and the Norwegian Bank as managing and final decision maker. Let me also say, so we don't forget it in this debate, that the state pension fund abroad had an excellent year last year with a good return. The management seems to be cost-effective. The big question for our fund in the future will be the development of the fund values, because the supply is about to stop for several reasons, for obvious reasons, which I don't need to give a lecture on here. Oil prices are falling, investments are being reduced and, together with low interest rates, this is a significant challenge for the fund to achieve the target rate of return. The increase in property portfolios, other investments, unlisted infrastructure, if any, can certainly offset some of this, but will, as mentioned earlier, be more demanding administratively. In the setting we are dealing with this year, there has been a significant search for investment and the use of instruments in coal and petroleum companies. This has been a debate that has taken place both nationally and internationally. I am very pleased that the final result of this has become a very balanced approach to it, with a large majority – in fact, the whole committee is behind – which has always taken care of what the case rapporteur also says, namely that the division of roles between who does what, that is, what the Storting should do to give signals, to provide a roadmap on what the government is going to do, on how the Norwegian Bank is going to handle this, has been very important. And when Stortinget then says that a new product-based criterion for observation and exclusion in relation to coal companies is appropriate, this is a matter that will now be handled by the Norwegian Bank and the Ethics Council. They shall consider how to appropriately delineate and operationalise how this can be managed. This applies to mining companies, and to power producers, which have a substantial part of their coal-related activities used for energy purposes. This 30 pst rule, which is not an absolute rule, is then given, but which should be the one that gives this concept of substance. I believe that the Stortinget has given the government a good road map, that Norway's Bank and the Ethics Council have got a good road map to get back to Stortinget with what the Stortinget has asked for, namely how this can be operated in an appropriate way. This is not just about how to handle observation, how to deal with exclusions – it is also here that the influence through ownership should go side by side with this. I think that the result we finally got, and to which everyone can join, has not been such that it has given gains for someone and losses for others. My opinion is that we had come to a stop-point where we give these messages, but I can see from the point of view that what was thought in 1974, that the fund must always contribute to what was then written, a ‘quality better society’, is absolutely crucial. Yes, it is an important matter, as the rapporteur said, that you go in and look at coal and coal mining companies with a number of criteria that we have set out, through a map that is the Storting signal of how this should be handled. But I'm very happy – in addition to agreeing – that we have held on to the responsibilities and roles that always lie in this, because I think that if we start talking about it, it could also go beyond the returns that the fund is going to give. Although the Right is always concerned with money – of course, someone will say, I talk a lot about it – it lies in this that when over 10 pst. of our budgets each year drawn from the Fund, it is absolutely central to having a good balance in this. I finally took the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a good job. He has spent a lot of time unifying the Storting best possible about this and has succeeded in doing so, at least with this very theme that I brought up in the end. All credit for that job, to unite quite conflicting views into the system we all the time need. Then there's nothing else to do in the end than to wish ourselves happiness with the fund's further operations. We know, we who are working on fiscal policy, that when we get to the next stops – not in dealing with the fund, but in dealing with our budgets – this will always be important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e213	The oil fund we have today has been a huge success, and the fund now represents a total of 1.3 million. kr per capita in Norway. The key to success has been and is that the investment decision has been left to professionals in the Bank of Norway. The fund has been a long-term investor with a clear financial professional objective of maximum returns at moderate risk. For the Progress Party, it is important to maintain as much as possible the financial objectives of the Oil Fund and to leave the investment decisions to our expertise in Norway's Bank and Norway's Bank Investment Management, NBIM. We should not get into a situation where our professionals in the Bank of Norway are getting fewer and fewer industries to invest in. The party in progress had to note that a broad majority of the Stortinget wants a product-based range of coal companies. The consequences could have been very negative, and we therefore chose to negotiate for the most appropriate solution. The majority are now asking the Norwegian Bank and the Ethics Council to assess how such a criterion can best be defined. It's just companies with 30 pst. or more of its activities in coal which could be excluded, and the limit of 30 pst. is not absolute. As long as companies have an ambition to sell out of the coal industry or move to more renewable energy, it is not said that they have to sell out if the companies eventually reduce to less than 30 pst. Most people realize that the world does not stop using coal if the oil fund withdraws from the coal companies around the world. For example, the Norwegian State will: continue to extract large quantities of coal on Svalbard. It should be possible to ask whether the role of the oil fund is to be a global moral policy or whether it is better that the oil fund continues to manage in a responsible and long-term manner, based on objective criteria. Large cross-border state investment is being met with scepticism abroad. The Norwegian Oil Fund may be excluded from important markets if it is perceived as a political actor. I have noticed that the Socialist Left and Left are promoting a proposal that the oil fund be explicitly required to comply with ILO Convention No. 169. Let me remind you that this is a convention that only 22 of the 190 countries in the world have joined. Sweden has not ratified the Convention, nor has Finland, the United States, China, Germany, the United Kingdom and France. However, two countries agree with Norway on this convention: Venezuela and Bolivia. I would like to remind you that the Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals here in the United Kingdom that Norway should withdraw from this Convention. Of course, Norway is going to follow the conventions to which we have attached, but imposing explicitly on the oil fund to follow up controversial individual conventions is very unfortunate in my eyes and in the eyes of the Progress Party. Let me finish by thanking the case rapporteur for a good cooperation and for the way he put up his work and included all parties with good information throughout the negotiation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e233	First, I would also like to pay strong tribute to the rapporteur for his work on this big message and the result we now have. But I also think it is a great strength that there is a unanimous attitude, not least in terms of a field as important as our common savings fund, as the oil fund is, and the management of it. Since 1974 was mentioned by the representative Svein Flätten: former Prime Minister Lars Korvald said about the time that «Norway is a small country in the world, in war as in peace.» It is certainly true today too, but precisely as far as this fund is concerned, we are not a small player. What we're doing is being noticed by a lot of people. This is one of the world's largest funds. It is also – and we should commend ourselves for it – one of the world's most socially responsible and open funds. The fund is the owner and minority shareholder of more than 9,000 companies, and it requires its liability at all levels on the basis of such a portfolio. We support the objective of maximum returns within an acceptable level of risk. The cooperation parties Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left asked last year's government to investigate the extraction of the oil fund's coal investments. The government set up an expert group that not only looked at a separate extract from coal but also proposed that climate damage be a separate extractive criterion aimed at ‘actions or omissions which, at an aggregated level of companies, lead to unacceptable greenhouse gas emissions’. We are very pleased with this proposal. The criterion is broad in scope and is not limited to individual sectors or to one type of greenhouse gas. I am also pleased that an overall committee – much of which has been influenced by this debate – has agreed to withdraw the fund from the coal. Without a doubt, coal is and will be the most climate-damaging form of energy production. That's why, in our view, there are strong ethical reasons for an extract. We look forward to the government's proposal for criteria for such a product-based extraction from coal, based of course on the targets the size has drawn up in this setting that we are about to adopt. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also propose an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad, with the aim of investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors. I agree with what the representative fleet said about ownership management. It's very important, and hopefully the decision we're making today will help companies change their behavior. Then we have achieved some of the things that are the thinking behind this setting. We support the government's proposal to look at the possibility of increasing investment in property and unlisted infrastructure. Expected return on shares and debt securities is low in the future, especially due to expected low to moderate growth in rich countries, where ageing of the population keeps consumption and investment down. I want to say that if you want to look a little bit ahead, it's probably also a question of whether the mix of shares/interest rate investments is the way it should be. I expect that it will also be a theme for both the fund, the Bank of Norway, government and big business in the time to come. In addition, what we are now looking at in terms of property and unlisted infrastructure, will open up investment in renewable energy in poor countries and unlisted infrastructure there. It can also greatly contribute to development and benefit the entire population of the countries. We are also proposing an own investment programme within the oil fund, with the aim of investing in sustainable businesses and projects in poor countries, with a framework of at least 20 billion. kr. In the end – five minutes are unfortunately too small – for this to happen in the future with regard to the governance structure of the Bank of Norway: Norway’s Bank and the Governing Council have many and challenging roles, which it is difficult to summarise in a single board. It is monetary policy, the role of banks' banks, financial stability and the management of State pension funds abroad. We believe it is important that the Gedrem Committee now makes a real assessment of whether there should be a separate board for the oil fund, consisting of people who have this as something they really are experts on, so that the governance structures can be developed in this area as well. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e261	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e264	The Norwegian Oil Fund is the world's largest fund of its kind. The size of the fund is incredible at more than 1 million. kr per capita in Norway. The idea of a Norwegian oil fund arose in the 1960s when the Norwegian government then declared sovereignty over oil resources. The oil industry and oil wealth management have been under strong government control throughout our history as an oil nation. On Christmas Eve 1969 oil was found in the North Sea. Since then, the oil and oil industries have had a crucial role to play in the development of Norwegian society as a society today. The first years after we found the oil, the revenues were used to further develop the industry and build on the welfare community. When it became clear that oil revenues would be significantly greater than initially assumed, the oil fund – the State pension fund abroad – was established. Since 1996, the Oil Fund has been one of the most important national governance tools we have. The purpose of the fund has been to provide a good and stable return on oil revenue, and the investments in the fund are allocated to shares, interest rate papers and property. The Fund’s investment in shares has spread across different markets and across different industries in order to spread risks and secure good returns. The majority of investment is in Europe and North America, and we own over 10,000 companies around the world. As the size of the fund has grown, the ethical guidelines for the Fund have evolved by decision in this room. The idea of setting ethical guidelines for the Fund has been that the people's fund should be managed in line with people's views on what is ethically sound. Therefore, the Storting has gradually raised the external limits of what the Fund is to invest in. In 2001, it was decided that the investment of the Oil Fund should not conflict with Norway’s obligations under international law. In 2010, tobacco companies were excluded from the fund’s investment portfolio, and today an overall finance committee is involved in withdrawing the oil fund from companies with more than 30 pst. of its revenue from coal, or has more than 30 pst. of its activities in coal. On the issue of withdrawing the oil fund from coal companies, the bulk of the population has changed their view over the last two years. We have discussed this issue in several rounds since 2013, both in the context of representative proposals and in the context of the communication to the Stortinget on the State pension fund abroad. I think it makes sense that the Storting has taken the time for a thorough debate on this matter, and I am glad that we finally end up with a solution that is behind all the parties. The Centre Party welcomes the development of ethical guidelines for the Fund. We clearly see the value of the people's fund being managed in line with the values of the people. The Oil Fund is an important norm set in international investment environments, and the positions signalled by the Stortinget through the Oil Fund are therefore important in addition to the concrete investments made by the Oil Fund. Norway is not an international major act, but through the Oil Fund Norway can participate in setting standards for investment on the international market. Therefore, the Central Party considers that the decision not to allow investments contrary to our principles of international law was very important. Similarly, we have been positive about the other ethical guidelines that have been drawn up in recent years. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that the fund should be independent and that decisions on the companies in which the fund is to invest should be taken by the fund's managers – not by the Stortinget. Neither the fund nor the Stortinget are earned that the fund is controlled in detail by us elected representatives. The main task of the Fund is to manage oil wealth on behalf of the Norwegian people in an economically and ethically sustainable way that creates values that can benefit both present and future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e281	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e284	I'm going to deal with the proposals. 4 and 5 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e290	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e293	Today is a joyous day. An aggregate accumulation takes long and important steps in clearly telling SPU to take greater climate considerations as well as securing returns and savings in order to ensure the well-being and freedom of future generations. It is historical when a joint committee writes that ‘financial risks arising from climate change are an area with the potential to affect the fund’s portfolio systematically’, and that the Committee determines that ‘a product-based criterion of its own in the guidelines for observation and exclusion’ is appropriate to carbon companies. In more clear order, this means that the fund will in principle withdraw from most coal mines and coal-fired companies from the turn of the year, and in particular from the most impeccable ones. The fact that there is now a large number of things left has meant for a long time, and suggested several times, is an important climate slider. Since green values are increasingly among the most important drivers in the world market, it also means that the oil fund is much better protected than reducing climate-related financial risks. The Left and Christian People's Party received criticism last year that we chose to use a little extra year to take a significantly larger step than the majority wanted. In December 2013, only the Christian People's Party voted in favour of the Left's proposal to address the financial and climate policy risks involved in SPU's heavy investment in oil and coal companies. On 20 March 2014, the Left joined a pool to set up an expert selection to assess the exclusion of coal and petroleum companies. The debate was quite heated. The leader of the Labour Party, for example, said: following: «The Left and Christian People's Party could have joined the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens and both received an investigation and an extension already this year, but thus chose to bet on the government parties.» The leader of the centre party went even further and said that the conclusion is that: «The Left and Christian People's Party uses the so-called freedom they have in the Storting, not to promote climate, but they use it to promote a cooperation climate with the Right and the Advance Party.» According to the Labour Party and the Central Party, the fact that the Left Party has chosen to bet on the Government Party means that today we are making a decision that goes much further than what the two parties would join one year ago. Had we followed their recipe, we had even noticed that the SPU had withdrawn from a clean coal mining company, and going a little further would have been a long way off for many, many years to come. Now we go a lot further, fortunately. In addition to the extraction criteria for coal and petroleum, the Left co-proposals on several important proposals are linked to the management of SPU. Ethical guidelines apply to government bonds, human rights issues, the exclusion of companies producing nuclear weapons, tax havens, country-by-country reporting and investment in resilient enterprises in poor countries. I must say it is a little strange that the Labour Party does not support any of these, but it is possible it is an incursion, especially given that the representative Truls Wickholm later today has an interpellation on country-by-country reporting. Finally, some words about SPN. I am very pleased that the government announces a broader review of SPN in the message on the management of the State pension fund in spring 2016. And as stated in the 2014 Management Communication, the Swedish Social Security Fund argues that SPN should be able to invest in unlisted infrastructure and property. The left will, of course, await the evaluations of the department and the recommendation from there, but a large dose of skepticism will be notified to both. In our view, it is somewhat contradictory that an almost aggregate increase, with the exception of the Left, does not open up the possibility that life insurance companies and pension funds should own Norwegian infrastructure, but that at the same time, the People's Security Fund, which is actually the same type of company, should do so. Nor does it make any sense for us, on the one hand, to sell State Entra, which is investing in property, while at the same time opening up to do the same for the Social Security Fund. Finally, I also thank the case spokesperson for his patient and tidy work and the other three parties with whom we had direct negotiations, for constructive discussions, and not least for the fact that a total accumulation now ends up on the result. Finally, I take up the proposal No. 8 to 11 on behalf of Left and SV. They don't get multiple numbers today, but they're allowed to hope they get it in a year or two.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e325	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e328	The representative of Breivik is quite right in what he says: there will hardly be a majority for these proposals today. But it'll be soon enough. And the historic decision we are making today, on the World Environmental Day, is a good example of that. It is not long since there were only a few representatives in the United Kingdom who were attached to withdrawing State pension funds abroad from coal investment. Now there's a total mass that does it. It's incredibly joyful. I would like to congratulate Mr Tvedt Solberg on his very good work. Last year, the treatment of this big message was marked by chaos. Different parties voted against each other's rather similar proposal, and thus there was no majority for anything. This year there is an overall increase that makes a very important decision, and that is an example of follow-up for the Financial Committee, and for the Storing. So it is very gratifying that the case-rapporteur today is clear that the management of the SPU is a political issue. In the meantime, a small impression can be that the State pension fund abroad is a completely neutral piggyback, but it is not. Especially in view of the climate crisis we're up against, and as millions of people are discussing and talking about and thinking about today, on the Environment Day of the World, it's, I'd say, a more political action not to withdraw from the most polluting energy sources. At all, it is an active political act to manage oil revenues in the way Norway does. Although we have to remember that there are really no incomes there is. What we're doing is a wealth relocation with some significant climate transaction costs, and what we invest in through the oil fund must reflect that reality. We in SV would like to see several changes in the management of the State pension fund abroad adopted today. We have e.g. together with the Left and Center parties, a proposal to withdraw State pension funds abroad from tax havens through ownership and management of the companies in which they have invested. In particular, it should be possible for the Storting to determine that the State pension fund abroad is not to set up subsidiaries on its own in tax havens. It legitimizes the black economy, which is one of the main drivers of the world's evolution of differences. We also contribute through these subsidiary investments to legitimising the shadow economy that allows trafficking, drug trafficking and illicit arms sales, as well as theft from many of the world’s poor countries. This is something I hope we'll soon get a majority in Stortinget, and I'll encourage the other parties to think about one more time before voting today. This should be uncontroversial on Stortinget. Other proposals that we would like to have implemented are the adoption of a requirement for an expectation document for human rights now. I don't think we need any further investigation on that question. It should also be possible to decide that the Stortinget is more actively seeking to withdraw the oil fund from investments that contribute to the production of nuclear weapons. So it's like we also want an oil fund that pulls out of fossil energy for several reasons. Firstly, there is a question of risk spreading. When our country is so heavily dependent on oil revenues, it's an unwise economic strategy to base our income from the fund on fossil energy as well. Secondly, the logic that leads to today’s Storting determines that coal is ethically problematic as an investment object must necessarily lead to other fossil energy being also an ethical problem. We need a strategy to draw the State pension fund abroad out of fossil energy, but I feel sure that in a few years this will be adopted in the Stortinget, based on the decision we are making today. Of course, we should also have seen that the decision to withdraw from the coal was even clearer. It is a small cut in the joy that companies like BHP Billiton will still be able to be an investment object for the state pension fund abroad, but again: I also feel confident that this is something the Storting will quickly address. Today, we adopt incredibly important principles, which will provide good leadership for the management of State pension funds abroad in the future. I would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Stortinget on a very good and important decision, and I would also like to congratulate the Environment Day of the World.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e349	The representative should also address proposals, including: the fossil energy proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e352	The representative appreciates the fact that the president reminds me of the signature, so I'm addressing the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e357	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e360	Thanks from the Green Party to the rapporteur for a good job. Congratulations on a unanimous increase that today decides that the State pension fund abroad should withdraw from the coal, in line with proposals we have made. The Greens support the Committee's decision. We do that because in a year when we are going to agree on a new global climate agreement in the world, this decision sends a very important international signal. Together with other parties and the environmental movement in Norway and internationally, we are very pleased with this decision. New political ideas are often ridiculed when they first come, and written off as unrealistic, but we suddenly find ourselves in a situation like today where what was previously irresponsible has now become universal. It's supposed to be proud of everyone in the Bighold. The current decision at the same time confirms the role of the management of the Fund. There is no question about it, the Stortinget sets the overall political and ethical frameworks, while the implementation is left to the experts. The announcement of the paper we are discussing today shows that the fund is managed professionally and well, and the Greens have full confidence that the Norwegian Bank will implement the new extraction criteria effectively and in a way that will be noticed in international financial circles. It is worth noting that, at the same time as the Storting decision today is very good, the Financial Committee, in its comments, continues to do its utmost to enumerate what has been agreed upon into wool. Norway has long been widely claiming that Norway can invest 7 000 billion. kr in the world market without any climate impact to be taken into account. In fact, the suspension repeats that the Fund is still allegedly not a climate policy instrument. It has always been – and is – of course a completely meaningless claim. Immediately afterwards, the Committee asks that coal companies be excluded from the Fund because there are ‘ethical aspects related to the activities of some coal companies in both mining and power generation’. When we remove wool, the content of this sentence is obvious, and it has been confirmed by all the representatives who have spoken. It's an ethical problem to invest our common savings in activities that destroy the climate on Earth. That is why it is brilliant that the Stortinge today actually adopts something that really represents a dramatic progress in Norwegian climate policy. For the time being, today's decision is limited to coal companies with more than 30 pst. of coal revenues. But it will have to sink quickly into public debate and into the Storting that it is not just coal companies that are causing dangerous climate change. With today's emission level, we have less than 20 years left before the world's total CO2 emissions have to be zero. What, then, are the ethical aspects of investing in companies engaged in tar sands, heavy oil and other types of oil production, which have exactly the same climate effects? And what are the ethical aspects of lighting out large, new Norwegian areas for even more oil and gas exploration through the 23rd concession round without assessing the climate impacts? In two weeks’ time, the Stortinget will deal with the development of Johan Sverdrup – a gigantic fossil project to produce oil long after world emissions have to be zero. The plan submitted to Stortinget does not say that the project will contribute to pumping new 900 million tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere. It is particularly striking when we in the Grand Duchy today say that we should not invest in coal because it contributes to dangerous climate change. But it is also gratifying that the Storting has taken this step. This resolution is necessarily just the first step towards taking on more and more of our ethical responsibility for how we contribute to climate change in Norway and how we invest the money we make in our oil business. The logical consequence of drawing the oil fund out of coal for climate reasons is that we must also do something about Norway's other exports of CO2 emissions and climate change, and there must be consequences both for the way we use the oil fund and for how we operate Norwegian oil in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e384	The central government pension fund is our common savings fund, and they have to be well managed. The fund has developed a solid reputation for its structure, governance model, transparency and accountability, and the fund is cutting high in international comparisons. The results obtained are based on long-term work on regular assessments of how the management of the Fund can be further developed, and changes in the investment strategy shall be based on thorough professional assessments. Important road choices are anchored in Stortinget. The aim of the investment in the State pension fund is to achieve the highest possible return in the context of moderate risk, and the investment strategy is characterised by: spreading the investment widely; using the long-term horizon of the fund to harvest risk premiums; low costs; transparency; a limited element of active management; responsible management; and a clear governance structure. By the end of 2014, the share investment in State pension funds abroad was spread across more than 9,000 companies and the bond loans of more than 1 100 different issuers. Investments in property are also included. Overall, the Fund’s funds were invested in 75 countries. The Fund shall be managed responsibly and within a clear ethical framework and ethically motivated criteria have been established to exclude companies. As the owner, we can also influence companies to take account of the environment and society, and the instruments of responsible management must be used in a coordinated, consistent and predictable manner. It'll have the greatest effect. This year's Communication discusses several important issues, including: the framework for the management of the Bank of Norway, investment in properties and infrastructure and financial risks arising from climate change. Investments in renewable energy and in coal and petroleum companies have also been mentioned in detail. The Committee's setting-up shows a strong interest in the Fund and broad support for the framework and the broad lines of the management strategy. I'm glad. Good and long-term management of the State pension fund requires broad opening up and confidence in the way the fund is managed. That is why I am also pleased that the Committee has found solutions with broad political support also on difficult issues. It facilitates the protection of the selected strategy from changing political cycles. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the most important task of the Fund is to contribute to the financing of the public sector in the future. It will safeguard our pensions, health care and care for the elderly, and if from a political point of view we want to use the fund to achieve many other objectives too, there may be conflicts of objectives and uncertainties. In designing the management strategy of the Fund, we need to think carefully through the relationship between objectives and instruments. It is also uncertain how the fund value will develop in the future. In the coming years, the return may be lower than we have seen in recent years, for example. because bond interest rates are now very low. Therefore, the margin for loss in price at rising market rates is significant. In the last two years, the capital of the State pension fund abroad has increased by an amount corresponding to one year's value creation in the mainland economy and, overall, the value of the fund now corresponds to a value creation of two and a half years. But history shows that the yield can fluctuate markedly, and that such fluctuations can go both ways. Much of this was also the reason why the government shut down the Thøgersen Committee, which is to assess the practice of the rule of action. This report will be submitted later this month. In managing the fund, we also need to address climate issues. In the Communication, the Government stressed the impact of ownership and dialogue as an instrument. In addition, climate is proposed as a new behavioural criterion in the guidelines for SPU observation and exclusion. The criterion is independent of sectors and will evolve over time. I have noticed that the Financial Committee considers it appropriate in addition to a product-based criterion to exclude companies that have an essential part of their business and their revenues from coal used for energy purposes. The Committee believes that a chain of instruments should be facilitated and that any plans for changing the energy mix of the company should be considered. I have also noticed the Committee's wishes for further process and progress. The government will follow this up and come back to the case in the national budget 2016, after obtaining assessments from the Norwegian Bank and the Etikkrådet. The Committee further considers whether the Bank of Norway can assess an expected human rights document. I will follow that up in the dialogue with the Bank of Norway. In conclusion, the Petroleum wealth has provided Norway with a starting point that few other countries are unaware of. We've made a scheme to deal with the revenue from oil and gas to the common and lasting joy of the entire population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e415	There are several who have called this a historic day because of the product range of coal and the broad consensus that is in the Storting. From the pulpit, different parties have naturally stressed different aspects of the decision. The party's representative was perhaps the most voted in favour. As the representative fleet said, Stortinget is clear about providing a road map, but also a timetable for the government. So I would like to ask the Council of State to elaborate on how she will operate today's decision on the extraction of coal, and what she herself thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e421	As I just said in my post, I have been given the reflections and considerations that lead up to the decision Stortinget is making today, and that of course the government will follow up. After obtaining advice from the organs we should hear, we will come back to the details of this in the government budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e426	It has been a part of what I would call pessimistic voices – they are in a minority – that have stated that the oil fund will be seen as a less attractive investor by making this product-based extract of coal, and that there are also expectations about a document related to human rights. Does the Minister of Finance belong to the pessimists or the optimists from the point of view of the oil fund on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e431	The Minister of Finance is primarily concerned with the decisions taken by Stortinget, which draw up the framework for how to manage the State pension fund in the future. We have a long history of developing the fund framework on an ongoing basis. It is first based on thorough investigations and technical advice and then through thorough treatment in the Stortinget. We have a long history of this, and it also contributes to the continuation of the predictability underlying the fund. I think it's one of the most important things, that the guidelines we draw up for the fund are predictable and are clearly communicated through the transparency exercised by the fund in its operations. It is the most important thing for the trust and ability of the fund to reap good returns in an increasingly uncertain market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e436	Does the Council of State see any obstacles in order for the decision on extraction from coal to be operational within the new year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e441	The size is taking its decision today, but it is a decision to be operationalised by obtaining views, advice and assessments from the professional bodies which, after all, are to implement this. I think it's pretty important also for the Storting that we do it that way. I have noticed what the committee position says about this, and will follow it up, so that we can get back well and wide to all the details of the question from the Serigstad Valen in connection with the budget for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e448	As you know, an international climate agreement is being set up in Paris in December this year. Can the State Council say anything about whether she has received some reactions internationally after the decision to withdraw the pension fund from the coal was announced and whether she believes it will have any significance for other funds and actors internationally that Norway has now taken this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e453	In general, the fund enjoys great international respect, both as a result of its openness and as a result of its building up a good governance framework, which I think many look to and try to learn from. I have at least gained the considerable experience that many questions about the management of the State pension fund that comes to us are about learning from the good experience we have done. I was just in the OECD -- I came back yesterday. There is, of course, also discussion about COP21 and the climate negotiations. But I think we need to be able to distinguish between the criteria for the management of the fund – which, after all, are about our common savings, our common pension money, on which we are to achieve the best possible return – and the measures and instruments that governments and authorities implement through both bilateral and multilateral agreements, in order to achieve other policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e460	Last year the temperature in this room was much higher when we discussed the corresponding case, and we also had rounds in different media surfaces with representatives from different parties, but not least from the Progress Party and the Right, who called the proposal to pull coal out of the oil fund for double moral and irresponsible. There were an incredible number of strong words about how irresponsible we wanted it last year. Does Siv Jensen think that the statements that came last year that this was double moral and irresponsible were unwise? Or does the Progress Party and the Right now believe that it is wise to take stronger climate considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e465	I think what the Storting did last year was wise, namely to set up an expert committee to investigate all the different aspects of these questions. We have done that historically when there is an emerging desire to make changes in the management of the fund. It is about how we target any new measures and instruments. They shall be well-established, well-considered and capable of being implemented in a good and proper manner within the overall framework drawn up for the management of the Fund. I noticed what the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, said in his post, where I thought it was said very much wisely about the need for long-term management, because this is our common savings. Then we have to make sure that the yield is good over time, so that we can benefit from it in both present and future generations. That's the whole point of the fund. So it's like that, based on the expert investigation, Stortinget recommended a behavioral extraction criterion that we believe embraces wider. And then I notice that the Storting is now going a step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e477	I would also like to start by joining in the praise that the rapporteur has received from several of the previous speakers here. He has done a very solid job, and has put a considerable effort into finding unifying solutions in this setting. I think that's very good, because the fund isn't served with changing signals from a changing majority in the Storting. Then I also have to say that I am pleased with the unison resolution that the Committee is now expressing both on the SPU and on the rule of action as a tool to ensure financial space for future generations and a reasonable phase-in of oil money in the Norwegian economy. That's good, too. I believe it serves Norwegian politicians to be honored – across party boundaries, I would say – that we have managed to hold on to this framework, that we have managed to have ice in our stomachs and hold on to the long-term perspective of managing our resources even when there has been great unrest in the financial markets and we have seen short-term huge losses in the fund. Then I also believe that it is a quality sign of Norwegian policy that we have the ability to distinguish between the exercise of foreign policy and the conduct of financial management. Of course, it would be terribly naive to claim that a fund of the size that we're talking about here does not constitute some kind of power factor – that of course – or that a state-owned fund chooses to invest in and not least not to invest in, will never be perceived as political signals. That's why, of course, the framework conditions we set for the management of this fund are about politics, but we have, I believe, by using objective ethical guidelines that are practiced equally against any company, clearly to find a model that avoids making the fund a foreign policy instrument while being managed within some framework for what we believe is ethically acceptable to make money. For a fund that operates in almost all sectors and with an infinite time perspective in principle, a fund that is fundamentally dependent on the world’s success, these ethical and financial assessments will often be consistent. I believe that the agreement we have reached in Stortinget to withdraw SPU from coal investments goes well into this way of thinking about the fund. We establish an objective product-based extraction criterion based on a belief that, just as with tobacco and weapons, we do not want to make money on this kind of business. At the same time, we have designed the criterion in such a way that we do not automatically leave companies that are changing their production in a more sustainable direction. It gives a room to actually influence how companies think about the way forward, for example. the energy mix to be used in future for the production of energy in a power plant. Last year, when we dealt with the SPU message, we found, after extensive work also in Stortinget, a new model for the ethics work in NBIM. The basic idea was to ensure an integrated chain of instruments. The bank itself has assumed the responsibility for the extraction. It makes it possible to establish a link between the work of influencing the behaviour of companies and the decision on extraction. The largest possible extraction is not a goal in itself, and by the fact that the bank can use extracts like a rice behind the rear-view mirror, we hopefully get a more effective day-to-day ethic work towards the companies. The coal extraction criterion is product-based but nevertheless takes into account elements of the behaviour-based criteria by enabling some companies to avoid extraction by shifting production in a more sustainable direction. So I think this decision will have a real effect. Many have claimed that this is just a symbol policy, that we wash our own hands without actually making any difference in the world, but it may prove to affect the way individual companies operate, and it may affect other large investors' assessment of coal as an investment object. The day after we gave our position on this matter, The Guardian wrote a case entitled "Norway find could trigger the wave of large fossil fuel distortions". This is a decision that the world notices. It is a decision that can quickly prove to be more effective than we might have expected, and it has already been referred to as a major campaign against climate change in Paris. That is why I am happy to agree to the decision that we are about to make in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e495	The annual report on the management of the State pension fund, SPU and SPN is both a retrospective report on the results and assessments of the management for 2014 and a forward-looking communication on the plans for the further development of the fund’s framework and investment strategy in the future. Every year, adjustments and changes are made based on thorough professional and political assessments and approval by the Grand Duchy. The latter is not least important, because the oil fund is managed by the Bank of Norway on behalf of the Norwegian people. The Bank of Norway depends on the confidence of the people and on the broad support of the administration exercised in order to have legitimacy. Transparency and control of management are therefore fundamental, and that can be a challenge in relation to the complexity of reporting. It's not exactly easy to get involved in this, which can create a distance to the one that might be interested in most people. Now, administration is not easy, but perhaps a popular version could be considered. The basic framework is also the policy framework, which includes: regulates what and where it can be invested, and a clear objective of the highest possible return to moderate risk, so that future generations can also make use of oil wealth. It is interesting to read the history of the development of the investment strategy for the oil fund, which was established in 1990, and until today. It shows that the fund has gone from investing mainly in government bonds and government-guaranteed papers in eight countries to 40pst. and later 60 pst. shares, and subsequently 5 pst. property and lower and lower government bonds. In 2008, the reference index for shares was expanded to include all emerging markets. All of this says something about the types of investment that best meet the target of the highest possible return within a moderate risk over time and within the framework we have set. The value of the State pension fund grows steadily and steadily. At the turn of the year 2013, the value of the fund was approximately 5,206 billion. kr, and at the end of 2014 the value was 6,616 billion. kr. In 2014, SPU has also contributed to the development of our common welfare services through transfers from the fund to the state fund. The SPU has gradually become an important source of funding for public expenditure, including for this government. However, it has not been given that it will continue like this. In addition to the returns from the placements made by the fund, the value development of the SPU depends on the inputs to the fund and the notification indicates that net inputs have gradually decreased in recent years. In 2014, the net injection of new capital was the lowest of 10 years. The Communication emphasises that there is a high degree of uncertainty about the inputs in the future. It should be noticed by both the government and we when we are going to work for next year's government budget. SPU is currently a major owner in the world stock market, and in many companies the fund is one of the largest owners. It influences the ownership and development of companies in which the fund holds a holding. We've been conscious of that responsibility. Over time, a framework for the Fund has been developed in the form of investment strategy, ethical guidelines and a responsible investment strategy, control bodies and a competence in fund management and ethics, allowing SPU to have legitimacy and to be a spearhead in responsible investments, both nationally and internationally. And I want to stress that in addition to having a government that is conscious of this responsibility, the conscious political choices are behind it. It shows the history behind the fund when it was created. We have developed and improved the ethical guidelines year by year, and we are concerned that fund managers in ownership exercise should express expectations of the companies in which it is invested – on good corporate governance, on preventing child labour and promoting children’s rights, on risks related to climate change and water management, and now also the proposal to add human rights and on adding a behavioural criterion for observing and excluding companies that lead to unacceptable greenhouse gas emissions and a separate product-based criterion for observing and excluding coal companies. All parties on the Stortinget have agreed over time that the SPU should not be used as a foreign policy tool or a political tool for changing governments' policies, and that is important. However, it is appropriate to add that we do not exclude SPU from being a Norwegian state fund, which is perceived both domestically and internationally as part of Norwegian policy. I am pleased that we now agree on the introduction of the criteria adopted today. Environmental and responsible investment have been focused over many years and reflected in the framework, and the proposal to exclude clean coal companies is a continuation of it. What consequences it would have had for the climate to wait a year – as the representative Breivik ventured a little over – we can all guess, but for the climate of cooperation it was undoubtedly very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e523	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e526	For 2015 it is estimated that 11 pst. of the total expenditure on public budgets in Norway is covered by the State pension fund abroad. This illustrates that the size of the fund and its return have a significant impact on the Norwegian economy. There is such a firmness for the management of the fund that a broad majority backs the rule of action for the use of the fund's returns into the Norwegian economy. The fund is gradually a significant international investor, and the changes made to the management of this asset value also have a fairly significant international focus. It is important that the Fund is neither or should be seen as a foreign policy instrument. A unanimous financial committee also refers to in the position we are dealing with today that the fund should not be a climate policy instrument. At the same time, we recognise the long-term horizon under which the fund operates, and that the objective of a good long-term return – to which we have committed ourselves – depends on our experiencing sustainable development in terms of both the environment and the climate. A year ago, an expert committee was set up to assess SPU’s investments in coal and petroleum companies. The government — and now a unanimous increase — follows one of their recommendations, namely to introduce a new behavioural criterion for the observation and exclusion of companies that lead to unacceptable greenhouse gas emissions. It is good that this behavioral approach is neutral with regard to industries and to what type of greenhouse gas. I also think that the Committee has found a good solution on the issue of SPU's investment in coal. It is important that the definition of which companies are to be assessed for any extraction is limited to coal for energy purposes, and not to other types of application, inter alia. as an input to industrial output. While in Norway we failed in our so-called moon landing in Mongstad, in fact the Canadians have built up a full-scale coal power plant with CCS, carbon capture and storage, in Canada. It shows a bit of the importance of technological development in the service of the environment and climate. Therefore, it is good that the Storting should now put forward the indications that the practice of the new product-based criterion should be developed over time, among other things. based on changes in energy production and technology. It is also worth stressing the consensus of an overall committee that no new product extractions from activities or sectors other than coal should be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e545	I would like to make a few comments on some of the other proposals that have been put forward in this matter, alongside extracts from coal. What I want to do is praise the Left, the Center Party and the SV for the attention they have had against the fund's use of tax planning, and we will vote in favour of these proposals. The Green Party believes that it is quite incomprehensible that the other parties will be outside this, and thus those parties are at risk of legitimizing that the pension fund is using tax havens to avoid taxation. I would like to say that the Greens are looking forward to an investigation into investment in infrastructure. But with the broad mandate of the government, we're a little worried about once again going into a situation like the one we ended up with this year with the Skancke Committee, so that next year the message doesn't go into what the Storting actually was dedicated to discussing. I experience that many parties – including the Minister of Finance’s own party – have arranged for direct investment in renewable energy infrastructure to be an interesting way forward for the fund. That is why it is good that the Storting should now unanimously decide that the pension fund should sell out of coal, but the Greens believe that an offensive strategy to invest in the alternatives we actually want, namely renewable energy, is just as important now. Next month, Norway will be the organiser of the UN’s major summit on financing sustainable development. A lot of capital is needed to realize the green shift. Here, then, Norway has great opportunities to contribute that capital by using the pension fund more offensively. The Green Party therefore hopes and expects that the issue of how to invest in renewable energy infrastructure will be a central issue in this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e556	Getting involved in this debate makes me a little humble. First of all, this is my first post from the pulpit of the Storting, and second, I get to take part in a historic decision, a decision that shows that we, as politicians, are able to take action and make decisions that are moving in a greener direction. It's my generation totally dependent on it. We're the first generation to notice the climate change on the body, and we're most likely the last one who has the ability to do something about it. Now, when the Storting decides to draw the State pension fund out of the coal, we take a decision that will resonate all over the world. Let's go ahead. We're choosing one of the largest sources of greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming, and it's something to be proud of. With this decision, the Stortinget is taking the challenge from a wide range of climate experts and is helping to strengthen an already existing trend, because more and more people are choosing to withdraw their investments from coal and place them in cleaner alternatives. My hope is that even more people will follow and contribute to the future's renewable energy. It is both absolutely necessary and possible to achieve the two-degree objective, but it is also absolutely necessary for large investors to take their share of the responsibility, and this responsibility is now the Stortinget to take part. In addition, it's a paradox if the energy we're going to give to the world's poorest to lift them out of poverty is the same energy that forces them to escape from their homes because of climate change. For it is the world's poorest that is hardest hit by global warming, which is largely involved in creating. This means that the benefits of withdrawing the pension fund from coal go far beyond combating climate change. It's a good day for history books that the Stortinget sends such a clear signal that we want to use the oil fund's capital and influence to make the energy market more renewable. Nina Jensen, Secretary General of the WWF, said that this is probably the most important climate decision that Stortinget has ever taken, and I could not agree more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e567	Just because this may be the most important climate decision Stortinget has taken a long time, and at least in this session, I would like to attach some words to the matter. This is a big day. It is a proud day for the Stortinget, who makes historic decisions in this way. I also think it underlines how right it was last year to take the extra round of setting up an expert committee, because we now get a decision that is both more comprehensive, more precise and can have an operational significance to a greater extent than the proposal that was in Stortinget last year. I fully agree with the Committee on Finance's wording that SPU should not be a foreign policy instrument, but at the same time it is definitely an instrument. It is clear that what we are doing today gives enormous international attention and will be a leading force for funds far beyond the huge amount of capital that lies in the State pension fund. I also think, as many have pointed out, that it could have a real meaning by allowing companies not only to withdraw but also to improve their business in order to remain inside. There are several aspects that need to be seen in the context when the Storting is also looking into the possibility of investing in infrastructure, but also, of course, the increase in investment in renewable energy, which is important. As many people have pointed out, I think this also in the long term is economically sensible for the investment and the capital that, on behalf of the Norwegian people, is located in the State pension fund abroad. It must also be seen in the context of other commitments by Norway on the climate front. We're doing a lot of work internationally in the care of rainforest. We're also doing a lot on renewable energy, and we're involved in financing up the green fund before the climate summit in Paris last autumn. It is clear that this resolution is an important part of the signals to be given against the negotiations, so that we can build up below and share in getting a proper result there. We have also made our own decision that we should reduce our emissions in Norway by 40 pst. towards 2030. It requires many individual decisions and major changes over the next 15 years. I have to say I am delighted with this big decision today and at the decision we have taken earlier, whether it concerns the reinforcement of the railway or conversions in order to get a more environmentally friendly car park. There are many decisions taken in the last two years. There is no doubt that the new majority we received after the last elections has given a completely different dynamics in climate policy now than we have seen in the previous years. It's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e586	The time will be a little short by 5 minutes to a main post, so there's a couple of things I'd like to do further. There were some people who came into the situation in this hall last year, where that expression was used that now the Storting had lost a year. I understand that it will not be repeated this year. In fact, the process that has been going on since last year has probably resulted in the decision that we are making today, meaning far more than if we were going for that decision that might have been the basis of a year ago. It would have a much less effect than the decision that we are going to take today. It is a question of whether the fund should be a climate policy actor, or whether it should only be a financial actor. We all agree that the fund is a financial player. However, as the Norwegian Bank itself wrote in its consultation response, the Fund also wishes to: ‘to be a leading investor internationally in the field of responsible management, including climate issues’. Then Norway’s Bank says correctly later in the hearing: «The use of the Fund as a climate policy tool beyond what is compatible with the role of the Fund as a financial investor would be very unfortunate for the management of the Fund.» I think there are some grey areas between these statements and what the Storting decides today. It is the privilege of the Storting to define the framework, and we use that privilege. So to this thing with tax havens. We're also very concerned about that, but I think that's where we first have to have a round on how to put the criteria. We also say that we're not a foreign policy instrument in the exercise of the fund, and that mentioning, for example. a state in the United States and a country, and then making a proposal, is not the way I think we can do this. We also have extensive work through the OECD relating to tax havens, and I would like this to be promised, but then we must first have some general criteria and not point out some other country or state here and now. Finally, I must be allowed to say a few words about the State pension fund Norway, which had a very good year last year, and not least what we are about to see, whether we should allow parts of the State pension fund Norway to invest in property and infrastructure. We'll get back to that, but it's a very important development of this part of the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e609	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3, 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e647	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e654	Norway needs more legs to stand on, and it is important for Norwegian businesses that we have a strong financial industry. Good access to both equity and foreign capital is a prerequisite for financing the necessary conversions for Norwegian business. Norway has political stability and credibility in the international market, and Norway is perceived as a safe port of finance in troubled economic times. Some other countries have been able to take advantage of the corresponding competitive advantage of developing into capital management and other financial services hubs, but to a lesser extent this has been achieved in Norway. During the examination of the 2015 national budget, the Stortinget decided that the government should propose a comprehensive industrial policy for the financial industry as part of the financial market notification. This has been followed up in the message we are processing today. The financial sector should have a prominent place in the general policy design, inter alia. education, research, growth and innovation. An overall industrial policy for the financial industry must respect both the credit system, the administrative sector, financial consultancy and fund brokerage, and the role of insurance corporations and pension funds as important pillars of the Norwegian welfare system. Corporate tax is important, and there is a need to adapt the level of corporate tax to the situation in our competitors. There are currently shortages of housing in some press areas and this has contributed to a significant increase in housing prices over a long period of time. An increasing number of households in Norway have a debt burden that makes them vulnerable to high interest rates, increased unemployment or falls in housing prices. It is very important to increase the number of dwellings in the market, for example: building student housing, simpler and faster public planning and simplification of part of the cost-effective requirements for new houses and apartments. In addition, it should be simple and inexpensive to exchange banks, both for the freedom of choice of the individual customer and for the competitive situation as a whole. It is positive that banks can be required to link to the Finanzportal so that information on competing loan offers is made more accessible. In the setting of the financial market notification, there is a majority against the government parties in the case of cooperatives. In short, the majority seems to wish to limit the government’s ability to regulate financial undertakings organised according to the cooperative model. I think that is very unfortunate because a crisis in financial corporations can have major consequences for both customers and local communities. There may be important reasons why the debt collective through its membership of the cooperative entity should not be the top authority. Loan collectors have relatively similar interests and this may involve a risk of making available for the benefit of borrowers that are unfavorable for financial stability. A unanimous Banking Law Commission considered a reasonable balance to ensure that interests other than those of the borrowers were also represented in the general meeting, unless the undertaking has representation or other body that takes care of those interests. I won't say much about Prop. 90 L. The issue is that it is necessary to assess the governance and control structure of the Bank of Norway because the capital management has become an increasingly important part of the Bank's business. The Government has followed this up by setting up a body to review the Central Bank Act and the organisation of the Bank of Norway. The government is already proposing individual changes. These changes concern, for example: to clear up the division of roles between the Bank of Norway and the Representation, so that the Bank of Norway is responsible for its business operations and its representation is responsible for supervision and back-testing. To date, the representative has had an unfortunate double role in which the body is both involved in the establishment of a subsidiary and subsequently has to carry out supervision and post-control of the establishment of the same subsidiaries. This is little about politics, it's about technical adjustments. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in both the Financial Market Communication and Prop. 90 L.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e675	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Tom Holthe, who has done a good job. The Committee strongly agrees with its comments on the vote, but there is still reason to link some words to some of them in addition to the comments. The situation in the housing market is giving rise to growing concern because we still see a high and increasing level of debt in Norwegian households. Human beings, families, are in danger of failing to meet the commitments if there were to be major changes in interest rates or other conditions in the economy, such as increasing unemployment. However, we also see that Norway’s Bank needs to take this into account by seeking to keep interest rates up, contrary to what might be desirable for the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian export industry. It is positive that the Minister of Finance has asked the Financial Supervisory Authority to assess measures that, at an aggregate level, can contribute to dampening the growth of housing prices and the growth of credit in the Norwegian household sector, and it is positive that the Governor of the Central Bank responded to the consultation that he believed the estimate they had was at a reasonable level. In our view, it is important to obtain concrete technical advice on how to mitigate the risk of household debt. However, it must be noted in this picture that this is ultimately a political decision. It is far from the measures now recommended by the Financial Supervisory Authority, to what was the embellishment of lending practices on which the Progress Party and the Right went to elections, and on which they were so proudly able to tell last year that they were about to deliver. It is therefore with some excitement that we in the Workers' Party are waiting for what will actually come from the government in this area. In the examination of the national budget, Stortinget also made another decision, on which Holthe was involved. It was that we wanted proposals for a comprehensive industrial policy for the financial sector as part of the financial market communication. There is little trace of suggestions in this message. It is positive that the government reports back to Stortinget that it is in progress—that they can refer to the recording meetings with the industry—but, in particular, it is not offensive. Although it is only the Left Party and the Labour Party that clearly express this in the comments on the vote, it is likely to say that at least at my own expense I believe that the committee could have expected more after the decision of the Stortinget before Christmas. For a government that likes to refer to itself as a force for action, you might not want to be satisfied with this. I also record that in more and more areas of this government, there is reference to investigations and work started when it comes to answering questions about action. Finally, I would like to refer to the comment where an overall committee refers to the report of the Scheel Committee and that the work to be done with company taxes is awaited. Let me add that it is positive that the government has notified that there will be a notice to the Storting within a year, but this picture is the larger than just a change in corporate tax, which I believe there is a great deal of agreement about. These are things that have to be seen in context. A change in corporate tax affects the entire tax system, and it is also necessary to look at the need for Community financing. Then it's positive if we can have the parties at Stortinget and the government an open dialogue with a view to a broad tax settlement related to this report and the announcement that had to come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e688	Well-functioning financial markets are a prerequisite for economic growth and welfare development as well as for government tax receipts. In addition, banking and financial services are a central part of society’s infrastructure and often a precursor to economic development. Capital, together with labour and competence, is one of the main factors of production in society. Financial intermediaries and places capital and constitutes the system of economic circulation itself. That may be why the financial industry is often called the circulation of business blood. Banks are also important social actors in the local environment where they are. The financial industry is based on trust, and a solid financial industry is helping to give confidence to our entire economy. Therefore, it is important that banks and financial institutions are sound and function well. The financial industry in Norway has become more solid in recent years, has a good profitability and has become more productive, including in the form of: by being quick to implement new technologies. It makes financial services cheaper for customers and frees resources for other value creation in the Norwegian economy. I will admit that it was not the efficiency of the Norwegian economy I was thinking about when I had to meet at the Majorstua Police Station to get the police to take a copy of my passport and stamp it to send it as proof that I was, when I was going to start using the Internet bank over 15 years ago, but it says a lot about an industry that saw the opportunity in technology before having more optimal solutions for customer relations. Today most of us go around with the bank in their pockets in the form of an app. Many industries have something to learn from the ability of banks to convert and to apply new technologies. The financial industry in Norway is forward-looking and has growth potential. Therefore, it is good for the government to facilitate robust and competitive production of financial services in Norway through a comprehensive financial market policy and to regard the financial industry as a value-creating industry itself. Like other industries, the financial industry is also dependent on good regulation that promotes value creation but also inhibits instability. For this reason, it is a guiding principle in Norwegian financial institution legislation that soundness requirements should be equally good regardless of how undertakings choose to organise their activities. The legislative weakness of the consolidation of the capital adequacy was corrected by the decision of the Storting on the new law on financial undertakings and the financial group in April. The aim of the consolidation rules is to ensure that banks included in cooperating groups are confronted with a capital requirement reflecting the real risk they assume in cooperation. So this isn't about introducing unnecessary legislation with complicated reporting, it's about the soundness of our banks. However, regardless of the need for reporting requirements in relation to important and correct legislation, I expect, in particular, that this government will provide as smooth a reporting procedure as possible. The majority of the Committee does so. The Bank of Norway has undergone major changes since the current central bank law was adopted in 1985. Monetary policy guidelines have changed and financial stability has become more important in the bank’s area of responsibility. In addition, asset management has become a significant part of the business. In order to strengthen the capacity and competence of the Governing Council, the number of heads of senior management is now extended from one to two, while the total number of members is extended from seven to eight, in order to maintain as many external members as at present. In order to clarify responsibilities and the division of labour between the Governing Council and the representation in the establishment of subsidiaries, the Governing Council shall have decision-making powers to establish subsidiaries as part of the management of the SPU. The representative body of the Bank of Norway will continue to have both responsibility and ability to supervise such companies. Finally, I would like to associate a few words with Oslo Børs. I think it's amazing that Oslo Børs has become the world's largest and most important financial marketplace for the seafood sector, second largest in the world on listed shipping companies and second largest in Europe on energy. It is almost as amazing as the fact that there are some people who believe that this form of dissemination of trade and trade can be abolished. It is positive that foreign companies come to Oslo Exchange to raise capital, and that the competence of the Norwegian capital market for energy, maritime food and shipping attracts foreign actors. Competence and capital are key words in converting Norway into a new normal. The Financial Market Communication shows that we have good assumptions for success.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e705	Norway's Bank is one of the world's oldest central banks and a cornerstone institution in the Norwegian state. The next year will be 200 years since the Bank was founded, and during these years the Central Bank Act has been thoroughly and completely revised only twice, namely by law decisions in 1892 and 1985. Along the way, there have been equally full and important changes in the law. An example is the amendment of the law that led to Norway's Bank being moved from Trondhemjem to Kristiania in 1897. Another is the nationalisation of the bank in 1949. A third example is the abolition of the bank's constitution in 1910. During this period, we will again decide on the bank's constitution. Today, the Stortinget is taking a position on new and isolated changes to the Central Bank Act. The positions of the centre party are set out in the Committee's configuration. In short, we object to the government's proposals regarding the creation of the new central bank manager, the winding-up of the regime of personal representatives and its competence to decide on the creation of certain subsidiaries. As the president can hear, I'm a little skeptical of some of those changes, so I'm going to talk a little bit more about the complete revision of the central bank law in the future. The Constitution established both the Stortinget and the other central government powers as institutions. Already in the November basic law of 1814, Norway’s Bank was mentioned. In any case, the central bank is in a special position, all the time when the basic fund of the bank was financed through the so-called silver tax. In other words, we are talking about an institution that the Nordics themselves, by almost sacrificing sweats and tears, have been able and cared for. This peculiar origin and location of the main seat north of Dovre, apart from the government in particular, also contributed to Norway’s Bank being Stortinget’s bank for a long time. It was the people who owned the bank through shares they got in exchange for the silver tax, and it was the Stortinget who in practice represented the people and the owners to the bank. The role of Stortinget vis-à-vis the bank was also clear and clear in the 1892 Act. Nationalisation after the war, and not least the amendment of the law in 1985, may have weakened the direct popular ownership of and the role of the Storting towards the Bank of Norway. The centre party believes it is encouraging and important that the government has reduced a sample that will now review the law around the Bank of Norway. This is a review that we also wanted when we last sat in government. We also believe that the sample has been given a promising personal composition, and hope that the sample will also initiate relevant public word changes along the way in its work. It is also gratifying that the Gådrem selection is intended to deliver its setting during the current period. The corresponding committee, the Ryssdal Committee, which was set up in 1968, spent 15 years working on the Central Bank Act. Important tongues say that it was because it was so good shrimp butter bread that it was okay to keep it going. We're going to hope that there'll be other Gedrem balls. The point of a review is that we have to have a central bank law that works in relation to the time and the conditions we're in. Firstly, the international financial crisis and the policy response have shown to the full that central banks are crucial, powerful and not least pragmatic institutions. The US, British and European central banks – to mention the most nearby – have increased their balance sheet dramatically in an attempt to resolve the crises. This has also shown, from a perspective, that there is control over its own balance sheet — perhaps more than power to determine governance rates — which is the core task of a central bank. My point is that it is important for us to systematise knowledge about how other central banks have acted in recent years, about how they have been reformed – for example, both the British and the European Central Bank have. have been entrusted with supervisory tasks – and how new tasks and policies have been followed up with appropriate parliamentary and political control mechanisms. The preparations for a new Norwegian central bank law must be highly professional and must base relevant and important experience from both the financial crisis, international policies and reforms when adopting Norwegian legislative changes. We have no opportunity to gain experience from other central banks in owning the State pension fund abroad and being such a heavy financial player, as well as the financial crisis that we have been through in recent years, and the fact that Norway and Norway's Bank manage the world's largest state fund makes this review absolutely necessary. In my party, we look forward to following that debate and the legislative work. I finally take up the proposal that the Center Party and the Left are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e726	The President is pleased that the proposal has been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e729	I would like to thank you for the historical review, and I also consider the contribution to be a strong request to have future rapporteurship on everything that has to do with the Bank of Norway and the Central Bank! I felt it strongly when I heard the article from Battle Violence Vedum. I'm going to some of the points that might be a little bit more momentary, if the assembly allows it. We're dealing with an industry that has played an incredibly important role both positively and negatively in the country's economy. We are also at a point in the Norwegian economy today, where there will be increased attention to the financial industry and how we, as a magnification and government, manage the framework conditions for this industry. It's just looking at the triangle financial market – interest rate – residential to imagine what challenges we're facing. We have made sure through claims from Stortinget that the capital adequacy in Norwegian banks is good – it is very good. We also see that we have low interest rates, which means – and have meant – many and large investments in, among others. property. I want to say that the Minister of Finance has a great job now when she's looking at tools to balance the housing market, access to credit and what we're doing to prevent a possible housing bubble. I feel quite certain that she has the support of Stortinget in the important work of finding the right balance that is required right now. Are financial markets important in themselves, or are they involved in a business life, for a population, for a country? I'm sure we can discuss that. What we from the Christian People's Party have been very concerned about ever since the Financial Crisis Committee and the financial crisis internationally, is that there is no need to provide for an industry that is larger than what it actually is based on in real economic terms. It is also in the booth when I see the comments that various parties have agreed to in this message. For us, it is important that the financial markets themselves have to function in such a way that they support the rest of the economy first and foremost. So to something that was a topic last year, and that's what in popularly good Norwegian is called the consolidation rules. More before me have been in this matter and the question of claims for smaller banks, among other things. when they are part of a larger group and not least related to the reporting requirements to be taken into account. We are at least concerned that, of course, the real economy should emerge and be the basis for which rules are covered, but we must not pretend that it is completely impossible for a smaller bank to exist in a system that depends on alliance partners. Reporting should also be dimensioned from that very point of view. I would then like to make a few comments on central bank legislation and also on the question that has been raised in relation to the situation of the representative in relation to the power to approve the establishment of subsidiaries. It's been like this until now. We believe that with the change that is now taking place, we get a natural distinction where the establishment is a theme for the bank and the board, and of course full post-control and supervision by the board of directors. I have seen that some people believe that this is a weakening of the role of representation. I don't mean it. I believe that this is first and foremost a role clarification, and I am absolutely sure that the representation will use the role it has, to continue to ensure proper supervision and back-testing of the possible establishment of subsidiaries, whether in this country or in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e744	The discussion on financial market notification is always an important, but unfortunately little remarkable, discussion in Stortinget – this year is particularly important, because there is greater turmoil in the Norwegian economy than it has been in the past. We have challenges related to parts of industry and industry, and we have challenges related to growth in housing prices and as a result of the credit growth in households. We're in a transition period, and it's quite obvious that the financial industry has a key role to play in facilitating the green shift that will come, which comes faster than planned. In the examination of the 2015 government budget, the Stortinget government asked to make proposals for a holistic industrial policy for the financial industry as part of the financial market notification – an order that would not be particularly difficult to understand, but that they did not make a single proposal in the message. The government has sovereignly disregarded the decision of the Stortinget, and the intention of the Stortinget. I hope the minister explains why. The Norwegian financial industry is an important part of achieving the transition to the green shift we are going to have to go through. Finance has all the potential to develop as one of the most important value-making industries in a new green economy. When, on 26 March of this year, the Stortinget dealt with financial services laws, one of the discussions was linked to new consolidation requirements – and thus a greater reporting burden – for many savings banks. The left said that the new rules would not be applicable to property of less than 10 p.p., but please let us know that the Minister of Finance would follow a collusion and make exceptions to the general requirements for property of less than 10 p.p. In the debate, the Minister for Finance said: ‘There may, however, be some cases where consolidation is completely unnecessary. I am therefore in favour of the committee's unanimous proposal for an exception for the ministry where, in order to use the committee's own words, it would be unthinkable to derogate from the consolidation requirement. I will, in line with the opinion of the Financial Committee, come back in the financial market communication to how we intend to practice this derogation.» The problem is that when the Minister of Finance has now come back to how this is to be done, the Ministry has not really followed up on the Stortinget's intentions. In reality, there are no rules of exception. The size has sent the Minister of Finance two simple orders relating to the financial market notification: proposals for a sound industrial policy for the financial industry and the practice of the exemption rules. None of them are followed up. It's special, and it's pretty serious. The best thing would be for the Storting to say today unequivocally that the requirement for consolidation should not apply to property under 10 p.m., as the Center Party and Left propose. I also interpret the plural's remark, even though it is mildly designed, as a rather powerful correct to the council at this point. If there was no need to adjust the ministry's understanding of the exceptions, there would have been no need for such an observation. The left has a number of times when the government draws up its somewhat incomprehensible fight against the EU when it comes to implementing the EU regulation on capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. The consequence of the government’s policy is that Norwegian small businesses are charged with more expensive loans than is necessary, and Norway is throwing away resources and goodwill that should have been used for the opposite, better framework conditions for Norwegian business. What I'm also wondering about is why a party like the Center Party, which says they're occupied with small businesses in the districts, doesn't support the Left at this point. It almost seems that conflict with the EU is more important than providing the best possible framework conditions for Norwegian small businesses. I will finally record the minority suggestions from the Left in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e768	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e771	We have an economy that is very heavily dependent on, or at least strongly influenced by, the fluctuations in the oil industry. We see some of the results of this now, when many people lose their jobs because of falling oil prices. At the same time, we have a financial industry that is under-taxed compared to other industries in Norway, and we have a housing market that suffers from structural problems due to lack of regulation, a distorted tax system and lack of housing in some press areas. I believe that some of the parties in the financial committee place too much emphasis on housing shortages as a trigger for price growth and debt growth in the housing market, and underestimate the results of the deregulation that took place in the Norwegian housing market a few decades ago. The Scheel Committee’s investigation refers to the need for a more sensible tax on property in Norway. The government parties' answer to this is to reduce taxes on wealth, which is what ensures that the richest people in Norway pay taxes. Some of us would say that a better way to address this problem is to provide for a property tax in Norway that can move money and investment from the property market and to value and produce. Such housing market is organized today, it leads to social differences, it reproduces social differences, and it shifts an unacceptable risk on ordinary homeowners. In our alternative state budget for this year, we – as the only party – proposed changes in corporate tax. In a recent review in the class struggle newspaper, a number of business leaders stated that corporate tax is a concern for them more than for example. taxes on wealth, as the economic situation is today. I can't see that the government has taken any significant action this year to prepare for the transition to green industry and business in Norway, not to mention the need to move more economic activity from the base to the mainland. A regulated labour market, clear laws and laws on the rights of workers and a well-functioning tax system have all been important prerequisites for the good economic condition and the egalitarian social structure of Norway. Therefore, I would warn against using the need for conversion, which we all agree on, as an argument for undermining the protection of workers' rights in Norway, undermining the Working Environment Act and implementing a more market liberalist policy when it comes to tax and financial regulation. That is why we should also look at the taxation of the financial sector. I think the Christian People's Party has good remarks in the Inner East. 292 S. There is not a majority in the UK today for a proper tax on the financial industry, but it should have been, especially given that the government itself in the national budget determines that there is a tax bias between the financial industry and other industries in Norway. It's unfortunate because it pushes economic activity from value creation into speculation. Finally, I would just like to say a few words about the representation of the Bank of Norway. We and the Left have a common observation that we point to the need for a slightly wider discussion of whether the form we have of representation today largely meets the need of the Stortinget to follow up the mandate given by the Stortinget. In this context, we refer to the EOS Committee, which has its own Secretariat based on the Storting and which provides a satisfactory and adequate level of transparency in — without comparison — the secret services in Norway. I have to admit that in the meantime I have made the idea that the representation of the Norwegian Bank is too closely related to the management of the Norwegian Bank and too little related to the Stortinget. We do not promote any concrete proposals for changes and how we should organise representation differently in this round, but we hope that the rest of the parties at Stortinget will want to participate in a prejudiced discussion on how best to ensure that the mandate of Storting is respected and followed up by the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e789	I am pleased that a joint committee emphasises the importance of a sound Norwegian financial industry for financial stability. A strong financial industry is a prerequisite for economic development and conversion. Norwegian financial institutions are doing well. In particular, banks had large profits in 2014. A substantial part of the profits over the last few years has been used to strengthen soundness. This contributes to increasing the capacity of institutions to bear risks and to ensuring that they are well equipped to meet the enhanced capital adequacy requirements. The financial market notification of the year provides a number of important points for discussion on the formulation of a comprehensive industrial policy for the financial industry. The government will continue the discussion of future messages. An overall industrial policy involves, inter alia: facilitating good competition in the market, and the Committee points out that it should be easy to switch banks. I fully agree with that, and I have announced that I intend to oblige the banks to link to the Financial Portal in order to make information about the prices of the banks more accessible. It is important that the capital requirements of the banks reflect the real risk of their activities and therefore the new Financial Undertakings Act introduced consolidation requirements for joint ventures in cooperative groups, irrespective of the size of the holding. In line with the decision of the Financial Committee, the Department’s exemption scheme was adopted in cases where exemption from the consolidation requirement is unsolicited. The disclosure in the financial market notification of the proposed practice of the consolidation exemption is in line with the technical advice of the Financial Supervisory Authority on when it would be unthinkable to make an exception. The monetary policy rule is clear. The monetary policy shall aim at stability in the national and international value of the Norwegian krona. The operational implementation of monetary policy shall accordingly focus on low and stable inflation, defined as an annual growth in consumer prices, which over time are close to 2,5 pst. At the same time, monetary policy shall contribute to stabilising the development of production and employment. There seems to be broad confidence in the inflation target. In the last 15 years, Norway’s Bank has undergone major changes, and the Stortinget has adopted several changes to the Central Bank Act in line with these developments with a view to strengthening the development of the bank’s governance and control apparatus. Today's governance and control structure in Norway's Bank I believe it works well. The Bank has established a competent organisation and delivers good results in monetary policy, financial stability and capital management. The Bank enjoys broad confidence both nationally and internationally. The Government is concerned that the governance and control structure of the Bank of Norway should continue to develop in line with the tasks of the Bank. That is why I have proposed some changes to the central bank law that will enable the management and control structure of the Bank of Norway to be strengthened in line with its comprehensive and complex responsibilities. I have full confidence in the management of the Bank of Norway and in the Governing Council. The Bank of Norway has done, and does, a very good job. As long as an increase in the capacity of the Governing Council is a measure that is relatively easy to do, I see no reason to wait with this because at the same time we set down a sample to look at the central bank law more generally. It is important, and I am pleased, that the proposals are supported by a majority of the financial committee. Some of the minority comments state that a desired solution is different from that proposed. In this respect, I would like to point out that the government has set up a body to go through the Central Bank Act in the light of the major changes that have taken place in the Bank's tasks. The term of office of the committee is generally defined. It provides for a broad review of the Central Bank Act, and it follows from the mandate that the sample should assess the governance structure of the Bank. It has been explicitly pointed out that the sample needs to look at international practices in this area, including experience with expert committees. Finally, let me link some comments to Serigstad Valen's posts related to the representation of the Bank of Norway. It is such that the representation is the control body of the Storting, and I believe it is a very important basis for the government's ability to make changes to the control functions that there are clear and clear signals coming from the Storting on how to want the control tasks to be carried out in the future. The government made small proposals for changes to the message currently being processed, also based on good and close contact with the Size of this work. But I think we all agree on the overall objective, namely that control functions are important. It is also important, of course, that the control bodies have sufficient competence to do so. There is a lot of good work in the representation, and it is important that we constantly look at how we can further develop the mechanisms so that they can do their job in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e828	In my speech, I called for answers from the Minister for Finance, who will not respond to the Storting's decision to discuss a holistic industrial policy for finance. The situation in the industry is well described in the message and reads between lines, it may seem as if the government is opposed to its own business policy for the financial industry. Fair enough – but I still expected the government to take such a clear order from Stortinget seriously, and at least it took on the basis of a wide discussion in the message. So the question is short and well: will the Minister of Finance follow up such an expectation on the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e833	I believe that we are following up this continuously and constantly. This Communication provides a good starting point for discussing the financial industry and the objectives of the industry. A comprehensive policy shall ensure financial stability, protect taxpayers, promote the interests of end-users and, at the same time, facilitate efficient and profitable operation in the institutions. Then I think it is worth stressing the extent of regulation that the financial industry has been subject to over time, which has been important to get in place because it strengthens the soundness of the industry and thus also strengthens the basis for financial stability throughout the Norwegian economy. It's been significant. There has been a lot of work and resources on both the part of the authorities and the industry, and then we have a good starting point for further work on new and more activities related to the industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e838	I would like to follow up on questions that I also raised in the post, and it is about what we now see in the housing market, which we have seen for a long time. I have registered that the State Council Jensen is concerned and that she has also sent a letter to the Financial Supervisory Authority. I wondered if the Council of State Jensen could say anything more about what she sees as being a matter of action here. We recorded in the hearing that Norway’s Bank found the measures provided by the Financial Supervisory Authority to be good estimates, and it may be important to note that we know the important division of labour between Norway’s Bank and the Financial Supervisory Authority in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e843	Let me first say that I heard what the representative Wickholm said in his post. I hope that he and the Workers' Party will be more concerned about how any measures for this sector will turn out to be in the situation we are now facing, rather than taking part in a political game of instruments and what has been proposed at a time when the housing market had a completely different development than it has today. I agree with Wickholm that there are challenges in the housing market that we have to take seriously, and that is why the government has announced that we will present a housing strategy this summer. There are several departments working on this. Both the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation are involved. It's about looking at supply-side measures to build homes faster and cheaper than today, and it's about looking at what regulations we should follow up to ensure future stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e850	The Labour Party is not concerned with conducting a political game in this matter, but if the Council of State of Jensen thinks it was what was going on, she can notice how populist play in dealing with difficult fiscal issues does not necessarily make it easy to take the decisions that are important for the country, see. the election campaign of the Progress Party on equity claims in 2013. But when that is said, I am pleased that the Council of State announces that action will be taken. Of course, the Labour Party is positive about being involved and discussing it, but it is not just about the housing market here, it is clear that there is a difficult spagat Norway’s Bank now they have to take into account the increasing level of debt in Norwegian households and the need for lower interest rates for businesses and the export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e857	It is quite right that there are many demanding considerations that need to be balanced when we consider how to design this in the future. There are several lots that are involved in greater flexibility in equity requirements. These include: that the housing market should be accessible to all those who have muscle to handle debt. This means that we do not have to think about implementing measures and instruments that effectively close the housing market for young people in the establishment phase who have muscles to handle debt. That flexibility, I believe, must be taken into account, even though at the same time we need to find proper regulation in a more challenging situation. That is why I sent the proposals to the Financial Supervisory Authority to be consulted. They have received a broad review, but it is far from such that there is a unison uprising about it, but there have been many other recordings also in the round that I think it is worth looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e862	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e865	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e868	I would just like to make a few brief comments on the amendments to the Central Bank Act, cf. the last debate. The complete review that is now announced is very positive that we get. It's added to a thorough work, and we look forward to looking at the outcome of it. I also think that there are interesting thoughts the representative of SV draws up about this with the representation, but I fully agree with the finance minister who says that the overall goal must be established. But we're going to participate in the prejudice-free debate as SV, and also the Left, demand. We are already making some concrete changes. The Workers' Party supports most of the changes, but together with SV and the Center Party we vote against the changes in § 5 and § 8a. There are changes concerning the power to set up subsidiaries — whether to add to the Governing Council or to remain in the Representation. It was pointed out by the representative of the Christian People's Party that some people believe that this would weaken their representation. This ‘some’ is the representation itself. The representative body clearly states in its opinion that recent changes have been made, that the framework currently in place is working well, and strongly warns against making changes now. Therefore, we will not agree that Stortinget should weaken its own control body. Rather, we refer to the overall review to which it is now being added, and that this decision should be incorporated into that work. That solution we think would be better, but we just notice that the majority wants something different.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e878	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Three, four, five.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e892	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e906	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e920	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e927	The representative proposal by the depositors Marianne Marthinsen and Hans Olav Syversen deals with the establishment of a Norwegian public ownership register of Norwegian companies. The aim is to maximise the transparency of ownership in Norwegian companies, because this will strengthen efforts against tax crime, corruption and money laundering. It is also the case that the Stortinget, when examining the revised national budget in 2014, asked the government to establish a public solution with information about shareholders and that this should be established in 2015. The issue and the issue of these issues is therefore not of a new date. In my opinion, the Committee has worked well on the matter and the issues relating thereto. There has been consultation within the Committee and, in addition, the Workers' Party's financial fraction has organised a positive and instructive mini-seminar on the occasion of the case. In Norway we have approx. 550 000 companies. Most people have no employees, and many have no activity either. In the present case, it concerns Norwegian limited liability companies, and we have about them. 260 000 of them. Also here most are very small, many also without apparent activity. All limited liability companies report annually all information on the activities of the Brønnøysund Registers. This means that there is public access to the information, including who is the owner or shareholder of the companies. In addition to the information available in the Brønnøsund registers, several websites are available where the same information is available. Some of these websites are very easy to find. Nevertheless, there may be a weakness in this system, as this information is only updated annually in the context of the accounting statement. For several companies listed or registered in the Securities Centre, the stock exchanges are updated on a daily basis. It can therefore be said that the Norwegian ownership registers already appear to be the most open in the world today. However, the Committee points out that this is not sufficient. It is desirable that the open Norwegian tradition should also lead to acceptance in order to improve cross-border transparency, so that this could lead to an important modernisation of an effective international market economy. An area requiring special attention is a non-resident owner of Norwegian enterprises. They may choose to register through what is called an administrator account. Here the owner identity will not appear. This does not mean, however, that this type of administrative registration should not be applicable in the future in Norway. It is desirable that the registers established should have good practical functionality and be as open to the public as possible. At the same time, we should not impose on Norwegian farms disadvantages other countries' farms do not have. It is important that we build robust solutions that in the future can also provide insight into who is the rear-facing, or more precise, ultimately real owners. This is the information the authorities and companies must have and the public should have access to. This is where a joint committee on money laundering meets the committee’s investigation. There is reason to clarify that Norwegian capital markets should be attractive to foreign investors. Norwegian financial interests are also, as you know, interested in and served with access to the capital markets of other countries. In this case, the Storting asks that the government promote a proposal for a Norwegian public ownership register. We are aware that the government has started this work. A number of organisations, such as Tax Justice Network – Norway, Finance Norway and ICT Norway, have made a significant commitment to the case. The input from these organisations and others will be important contributions to the development of a good and efficient system that provides the information that is desirable. It makes sense to establish a new system of registers, to try to create the most uniform system possible. It plays a role both for those who report to it and for those who should have access to it. It is an overall committee that supports the proposal that has been put forward. The cooperation has been very good, and I thank you for that. The Committee points out that maximum transparency in these issues will help to protect the economic system that we have built up in Norway. It's known through transparency and not least trust we get the best results, even within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e950	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Hille, who has played a very constructive role in dealing with this matter, and who has managed to bring together the whole committee behind proposals for decisions that I am very pleased with. As one of the proposers behind this proposal, I thought I'd take some time to say something about the background to this proposal being raised. The theme of financial transparency is becoming increasingly prominent, not only in Norway but also internationally. Secrets function in many ways as poisons for the economic system. It undermines healthy and open competition. It facilitates illegal money flows, undermines tax bases and helps to make corruption, money laundering and public health possible. There is a background for the tightening-up of the EU Directive on Laundering. That is the background to the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, and that is also why I believe that the general public must have access to the most up-to-date information on who owns companies in Norway. When we dealt with the revised national budget last year, there was a total increase that allowed the government to establish a public solution with information about shareholders that ensures greater transparency, with establishment during 2015. Since then, the Brønnøsund Registers, commissioned by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, have drawn up a proposal on how it can be resolved, and it is a proposal which has met with some strong reactions. We propose a rather limited access to the public, and one of the serious limitations is that it should not be possible to apply to a person and get a complete overview of what the person owns. It is carried out, among other things: personal protection arguments for this. I think it is important to be told by this speaker that it is difficult to see any reason why this should be information that needs to be protected for privacy reasons. Being a shareholder is not something that is forced on anyone, and owning shares means, of course, using a privilege that society offers, that is, being able to own with limited personal responsibility. Therefore, information on who uses it should also be made available to the public. So this proposal takes things a little bit further, because we say that a register of real ownership also has to contain information about non-resident owners. The issue of so-called ‘administrative accounts’ is mentioned in the referral by the Committee. As the rapporteur rightly pointed out, the Committee does not say that administrative accounts cannot be used or used in Norway. For some foreign investors, the only practical solution is to invest in Oslo Stock Exchange. But it's already the way that companies themselves have to go behind these administrator accounts and figure out who actually owns them, for example. in relation to the payment of dividends. In order to obtain a licence to invest on behalf of clients in this way, a person must be able to identify to the authorities who is acting on behalf of. It's already in the licenses. So this is information that exists, but that the public so far has not had access to. So I would like to say that how this is to be practically solved, who will be responsible for this register, whether it is the Brønnøysund Registers, whether it is the VPS or other actors – who will ultimately collect the information – is it the companies themselves, or the authorities will do it, who will report it, a delimitation of the term ‘ultimate owner’, how often it should be reported – these are issues that need to be further assessed, and which the Committee in and on this particular position leaves to the ministry to continue its work. However, the premise for these practical assessments to be made is very clearly expressed in the Committee's position today. In very simple terms, it can be summed up that information about who actually owns Norwegian companies is to be made publicly available. Finally, I would like to make a very brief comment on the concern that this decision should lead to investor refugees, which some have travelled: I think, as most people who have been involved in this case, who have made representations on the matter, that those who invest in Norway have good intentions – mainly. Promoting a requirement that there be transparency around this will probably scare little investors with honest intentions away, but it can actually serve as a competitive advantage in that it provides certainty about who you are dealing with. There's an uncertainty, a financial risk, not knowing who it is you're doing business with. This is really a brand day for all those who are concerned with financial transparency. So I repeat my thanks to the Cooperation Committee and to the rapporteur in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e971	Let me also start by thanking the case rapporteur, Sigurd Hille, for good open political craftsmanship and cooperation that have contributed to the unanimity of the Committee to ask the government to propose a Norwegian public ownership register in order to ensure transparency of ownership in Norwegian companies and, in particular, to strengthen efforts against tax crime, corruption and money laundering. Whatever our political stance, we have a common interest in financial transparency. We have a common interest in establishing good arrangements to ensure transparency of capital transactions and real ownership. Investment and capital have no borders in a global economy. Information and transparency are prerequisites for healthy capitalism and the global market economy that contribute to growth, efficient resource use and well-being for countries and individuals. We already have a high level of financial transparency in Norway – information is readily available in public and private registers. However, we can become even better at up-to-date information and influence internationally at the same information availability and level as is now established in Norway. Common legislation is important for a global economy – the business model, the purpose and the exercise of ownership are equally important regardless of who owns it. Financial information must not be covered, but the legislation must provide for the possibility to trace the origin of different capital transactions and who are the real owners of companies operating in Norway. Foreign owners may choose to register through so-called administrator accounts where the real ownership identity is not available. Initially, this is legitimate, and it is an international well-used and practical way of organising the diverse ownership of institutional owners in particular. The scheme must not be suspected. However, there is an important premise that there is an opportunity to obtain information about the owners at the back. Therefore, transparency and transparency should be as similar as possible to that established for Norwegian shareholders in the new register. The same access to information and transparency must be pursued internationally by Norway to facilitate the identification of ownership chains and back-end owners of smaller shareholdings in other countries. The vast majority of investors have good business intentions and private capital is invested to establish and develop businesses and products in hard international competition. The result is jobs and growth as a basis for both private and public welfare, and there is no contradiction between facilitating private capital and good investment in Norway while ensuring that both authorities and the public have access to who are the real owners and who are behind the investments. That transparency is to be ensured through the proposal on which there is now unanimity in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e990	This is the last case we're going to make decisions today, and it's, I think, positive to be able to record that most of the decisions we take today, in important matters, are unanimous in the committee. It was not necessary to have been so, but not least because the case rapporteurs for the respective cases have worked hard to bring the committee together, the result has been that way. I also take the opportunity to thank the case rapporteur, Sigurd Hille, for his job in getting it done in this case. Transparency about ownership is on the Norwegian agenda, but it is also on the international agenda. There are fewer and fewer people who can give a good answer to what should be the basis for keeping secret ownership. What reasons can be put into the field for this? You can always find technical arguments for why it's like this. It has been mentioned in the management accounts, and there is no prohibition on that in the decision that we are making here. It would be very difficult on the basis of the international legislation and how it works. But I perceive that there is a completely different argument for transparency that is now in focus, than it has been for a long time. That is why I must confess that last year's order from the Financial Committee, and the follow-up it received in the Brønn Island Health Register, amazed me. It was a solution that, in my opinion, did not promote transparency, and at least it did not make it easy to apply for, for example. cross-ownership, as many are concerned about finding out, when looking at real ownership and different connecting lines. The greater the joy, the greater the joy, of this unanimous decision today. I don't have to repeat all the good arguments for why transparency is both right and necessary, but I'm pretty sure that in the future, transparency in this kind of relationship will be a competitive advantage and not the opposite, as some have now claimed. Therefore, I do not think that the hearings we have had have been very illustrative, when many instances, which are quite different actors – from business and from another team – come up with any good arguments as to why this could be a problem for foreign investment in Norway, at least in a certain macro-image. I also need to say a few words about privacy. It has been used for several rounds as an argument against transparency. When several of the things I want to call prominent lawyers in this area, more or less are clear about the fact that privacy considerations in this context are simply being sought to take up as an argument against transparency, I believe that we have been quite well informed that transparency around ownership weighs far more than what has been claimed by some is the need to protect specific personal information. This is about ownership, and what you own. And only the form of the corporation, which most people choose in this context, suggests that there is publicity about ownership. We look forward to the follow-up of this. Which register to use, we get back to. But I record that we have a very up-to-date private register as well, working on these matters, and it might be a carrot for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1003	Let me join those representatives who have already said that this is a happy decision and a wise decision. If all the days of the deliberations of the Financial Committee had been as good as today, I would have been a very happy person. In one day, we are making both very important progress in the management of State pension funds abroad, and we are ensuring more transparency about ownership in Norway. It is very important to prevent corruption and tax evasion, but it is also a question of power distribution, and that is because economic ownership is an important form of power in Norwegian society, and that as much transparency as possible in these conditions of power is an important prerequisite for our democracy to function as well as possible. I will be brief and simply add that the contributions made by the representatives of the government parties in this debate so far have been very good and in themselves have been very good arguments to support the proposals relating to tax havens, financial transparency and country-by-country reporting both in case No. 1 on the current roadmap, namely the management of State pension funds abroad, and future proposals from, among others. SV and the Workers’ Party related to country-by-country reporting in the revised national budget. So I hope that also the bourgeois parties, and especially the government parties, follow up the good argument they base on in this case, and base the same principles on their voting on land-by-country reporting and combating tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1010	Publicity around ownership is important. Available information on corporate owners is a key tool in the fight against tax crime, corruption and money laundering. Transparency around ownership also promotes a more efficient economy, by facilitating restructuring and reallocation of resources in the economy. At the same time, it is important that the Norwegian capital market is also attractive to foreign investors. Norwegian specific requirements may have adverse consequences for the investment ambition of non-residents in Norway. Furthermore, international work is needed to achieve real and effective transparency. I therefore welcome international initiatives that can help to strengthen transparency beyond the borders of Norway. Most recently in the consultation process of the EU Green Paper on a Capital Markets Union, Norwegian emphasis was placed on the importance of working towards such international transparency around ownership. The government has also started work to ensure increased transparency in Norwegian companies. This is in line with the size already adopted, the request decision No. 496 for 2013–2014. Furthermore, the Whitewashing Law Committee, which was set up on 6 February of this year, has been mandated to propose amendments to the Whitewashing Law in order to follow the recommendations of the FATF and future EEA rules corresponding to the revised Whitewashing Directive. This includes, inter alia: to determine how the requirement to have companies in possession of information about their ultimate real owners should be implemented in Norwegian law. The Committee has stated in its decision that it wishes the government to await the investigation, inter alia, in its work on developing a register solution. Tax Justice Network on alternative ways to establish a Norwegian registration of ownership. After what I'm familiar with, the Tax Justice Network will come up with its proposal once a autumn. We will, of course, be able to evaluate the proposal of the Tax Justice Network, even though it may mean that a registry solution will be put in place somewhat later than originally foreseen. I have also noted that in the position of the Financial Committee there is a pre-requisite that the public should be able to have access to such a register of final, real owners at all times. I believe it is important to wait for the Whitewashing Commission's investigation, and not to forge a specific solution until the investigation is available and has been at the hearing. It gives us the best opportunity to establish a register that provides real transparency in a way that does not impose reporting obligations on companies that they will have difficulty in fulfilling.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1026	I am, as I expressed in my post, very pleased with the unanimity that is now in the committee. One of the things that the Committee expresses unanimously is that this is an area where Norway should take the lead. This makes me a little worried when I heard the Minister of Finance's comments, where she very clearly warns against the introduction of Norwegian specific rules. The Committee has not now called for the abolition of the system of administrative accounts, for example: But you can read the Minister of Finance there that taking steps that are not immediately followed by all the countries around us is out of the question for the Minister of Finance. Can the Minister of Finance cancel it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1031	I think I tried to express more views in my post, where I underlined the need to have good rules, but also have rules that ensure that we attract investment from abroad. At the same time, I underlined that we are trying to go ahead, among other things. by now influencing at an early stage this Green Paper with which the EU is working. It is about being early in life and influencing legislation that will later form the basis of international law. We work both outdoors and at home to put in place better and more effective rules than today, and we have worked to follow up the request decision that lies on the Stortinget side, with which we are on our way in and separately. But as I also said in my post: with the point that is now coming from the committee, it would have to mean that we have to postpone this somewhat pending the Tax Justice Network.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1039	Thanks for the answer. There is a long Norwegian tradition of working to influence legislation. Norway has had a driving role for a long time when it comes to financial transparency, and I am very pleased that the government is following up in international negotiations, as the Minister of Finance is now preparing. However, my question is more specific as to whether the Minister of Finance is at all opening up to make Norwegian legislative changes that imply that we are demanding that ultimate ownership appear, even though not all other countries are immediately following it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1046	I am constantly opening up to assess changes in the Norwegian legislation if they are designed in a way that takes care of our interests. In this case, it's about putting in place good rules that ensure adequate transparency, and it's about how we're going to have better international legislation that takes care of this on a broader basis than just from a Norwegian perspective. I think we have to work to take care of both. For example, when I was in the OECD ministerial meeting this week, it was reported that more and more countries are now joining the International Tax Exchange Information Agreement. That's good, because it means that we're getting even more nations – there are many already – joining this, and it also helps to ensure transparency, knowledge and breadth of international legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1051	I then choose to assume that the Minister of Finance is going to follow up what is now the decision of the Storting, such as. means that Norway has to go ahead in this area. But then I have another question, and this is a matter of privacy considerations, which both I and the representative Syversen, who are also the co-sponsors of this proposal, addressed in our articles. There has been a surprise about the proposal from the Brønnøysund Registers on how to obtain an electronic shareholder register in Norway. My question is quite simply: does the Minister of Finance agree that ownership information in Norway should be limited for privacy reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1058	I can assure the representative, Mr Marthinsen, that the Minister of Finance is following the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Then at the same time, I am concerned that we should design laws and rules that are practical and that take care of several considerations at once. Therefore, it has been important that we have had good processes around this that have both revealed different issues and pointed out other considerations that we actually need to take. I don't think it's a problem that Stortinget is constantly concerned with privacy. I think that's a healthy principle that we should base on in every thing we do. But at the same time we have to be able to find the good solutions and the good answers that also take care of what is the overriding concern in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1065	I believe the whole Storting is united in being concerned with privacy and privacy considerations. But what has been referred to so far in the debate here is that prominent lawyers who have privacy as their field have been involved in this matter and believe that privacy considerations are not a particularly relevant counter-argument against being able to have transparency about ownership, simply because owning through shares is a privilege where one has the opportunity to own without having full personal responsibility. It's just the share capital you risk, it's limited personal responsibility, and that's the whole point of the shareholder model. Does the Minister for Finance agree with these assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1070	That's why it's important to have good processes with proposals to design. There is good consultation, and it is found that there may be different views in the professional community as to what needs to be taken and how the final proposals are to be put in place. That is also why it is important for me to stress that it is important that we wait for some of this until we have received a thorough treatment of the recommendations of the Whitewashing Commission – that it is also sent to the hearing – because it is through the kind of processes that we acquire sufficient information to finalise the right decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1080	Then I try to ask myself a little more specifically about one of the assessments that the Brønn Island Health Registers have made, and that it should not be possible to seek out a cross-ownership – so it should not be possible to go in and apply to a person and get a full overview of what this person owns, you should only be able to apply to a company. This makes it impossible, in principle, to determine the total ownership of an individual. Does the Minister of Finance agree that being able to seek out that type of information has value for the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1087	At least I agree that it is important that we have relevant search criteria that provide relevant information to applicants. That's exactly why it's been important to have a good process on this. I don't think there's any real political disagreement about the overall goal. Then there are some considerations that we need to take to arrive at the best possible result, which provides sufficient limitations, which also provide sufficient privacy, and which gives us the opportunity to retrieve relevant information for what you have intended to use it for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1094	The last line becomes very simple – a simple question. The Minister of Finance is now signaling that this may prove to take some time, and I believe that the Storting overall is interested in this matter being properly investigated, and that the solution presented is going to be good and in line with the expectations that are now in the committee's position. But can the Minister of Finance be somewhat more specific when she looks forward to returning to the Storting with a solution for this register?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1101	I have been following up the request decision that was made in Stortinget, but in the position on this matter, the committee expresses a wish that we should await the Tax Justice Network before we finally conclude. Since they do not – at least allegedly – make their recommendations before this fall, it is possible to follow this up during 2015, as agreed, to be somewhat delayed, based on the signal that the Storting itself gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1107	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1112	As the representative Marthinsen said in his first post, some of the basis for this proposal is now coming, that the Stortinget sees that the request decision may not be correctly understood – at least not what had come out of Brønnøysund – and that it has been necessary to clarify. I also think it's something special to refer to an investigation from the Tax Justice Network. It's fine, of course, but I think that had it been so that the Minister of Finance was prepared to come up with proposals and engage in dialogue with the Stortinget earlier, but so that the formulation of waiting for the Tax Justice Network to fall was in the way of that, it would have been possible to talk to the Stortinget on that matter. I would assume – and at least hope – that there has been dialogue between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance's colleagues in the Government and party traps on the Stortinget in this matter. Something else would be weird. There's been a lot of good arguments here. I can mention one thing: at least it has been claimed to the committee that if there was a register searchable for a person, the waterworks case in Rome would be considerably easier to discover and get to the bottom of it. It might not have been possible that it came this far at all. I then find it strange that the Minister of Finance is now not more positive in this reply and sees some good aspects of this proposal, but chooses to be as pending and measured as she is. This is not an attempt at political games – which I have been accused of earlier today – but a mere in fact wonder when the Stortinget stands as united in this matter as it does. But despite all of that, I hope we move on. I hope that we will get this in place as soon as possible, and that the Minister of Finance will also take on board what is a common remark from the Committee that Norway wants to be in the front line and to be a leading country in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1123	There are probably no other countries that provide better insight into both equality data and shareholder books than Norway. Norway is well advanced in transparency and transparency. That's good, but it can get better. I think that Transparency International Norway expressed it well at the Financial Committee's hearing on this matter when they said that there is no legitimate reason to conceal ownership. I agree with that statement. In other words, there are no compelling arguments that there should be no transparency about ownership of Norwegian companies. Although it was already decided in the revised national budget last year to establish a public solution with information on shareholders that ensures greater transparency – I am glad that the government and the finance minister have already started work in this area – it is a good initiative by the proposers to put the matter on the agenda, and it is good that there is a cross-political consensus on this issue. Transparency is important in the fight against tax crime, not least against corruption and money laundering. Therefore, it is reassuring that the government, on its own initiative, assesses arrangements to improve transparency also in the ownership of securities other than shares. With transparency, it is also expected that it will contribute to better restructuring and allocation through mergers and acquisitions in business, i.e. a strengthened growth momentum. In an increasingly globalised world, it is important that, in addition to the measures taken at national level, we also support international work. We want Norway to be an attractive country for foreign capital to invest in. It is then important to find good, effective solutions that are harmonised as far as possible with international structures, while at the same time respecting our driving role in increasing transparency and transparency in ownership constellations. We need to establish simple and transparent arrangements and rules so that not large international actors choose to stay away from investment in Norway. We know that owner constellations can be complex and, for different reasons, form a network that is demanding to get an overview. It is therefore appropriate that a unanimous financial committee assumes that information on so-called ‘benefical owners’, that is, the real owners or rightholders of a company, should be at a level where Norway should appear as a leading country in terms of transparency. This also applies to administrator accounts. At the hearing of the Financial Committee on this matter, it was informed that a working group was set up in cooperation with Tax Justice Network Norway, ICT-Norway and Finanz Norway, with the aim of proposing improvements to a new register. This is a good initiative, and the parties deserve credit for this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1136	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1152	Developing and emerging developed countries, as stated in the Interpellation Text, were capped for 6600 billion between 2003 and 2012. U.S. dollars in illegal capital. This is money that could be invested in schools, education, health services, workplaces or social institutions in the countries concerned. Lack of investment in everything that can create a worthwhile life and opportunity has consequences. We see that every day on TV when we see news, or we read it in newspapers. As late as June 2, i.e. a few days ago, Oxfam confirmed this picture in a new report, where it appears that multinational companies based in the G7 countries were taxing 11 billion dollars to African countries. dollars in 2010, which is the last year they have figures on it from. When people are deprived of the possibility of education, health services and work, the ability to live a decent life and the ability to live in a society with functioning institutions, life conditions are created that give ground to desperation and conflict, which make people vulnerable, and which in worst cases also force people to flee. Human problems in one place in the world can often become our problem sooner or later. The estimates hide the extent of the secret problem, because it does not capture drug traffic and trafficking, for example. animals or humans. The secret team offered to legal multinationals in tax havens also benefits everyone else who had to have something to hide. The numbers are very conservative, and they're underestimating. These are, of course, estimates, because correct figures can only be put on the table if the legislation is introduced that allows the figures to appear on the table. But there are also a lot of people who don't want transparency and transparency. In the past, it was thought that the West gave away a lot of money in aid without getting anything back. Now we know that the picture is not right. Estimates have been made that for each krona invested in Africa, ten kronor will be confiscated in illegal capital flight. Of this is about 3 pst. It is intended to be corruption and illegal incidents, while criminal activity such as drug traffic and trafficking is 35 p.p., and thus commercial transactions between multinational companies account for around 60–65 p.p. by this bottling. That means, unlike what can be common to believe, it's not preferably corrupt dictators who are doing this bottling of African countries. It's a rather small proportion compared to what multinational companies do. Anyway, it's not the exact amount that's most important to focus on. The most important thing is to find a stop mechanism and prevent this from continuing. Because the toolbox for how companies manage to move money is very big, it's important to understand how this happens and find good, targeted solutions. This is where extended country-by-country reporting comes in. The new regulation can then be a targeted, inexpensive and effective way of making unwanted tax adaptations visible. This law is not such a law that you have to take up in the population. That fight is already won. There are global movements that fight for transparency in these tax havens. The argument has been triggered by the financial crisis and the scandals that have come to the surface of its wake. We all want to avoid financial crises and unstable markets. The enormous inequality that now exists globally is not just about poor and rich countries. It is about domestic distribution and distribution between companies and nations. Today, of the 100 largest economies in the world, half are multinational companies. That means 75 pst. of the world's countries, GDP is below the annual turnover of each of the 50 largest companies. When we connect this to that 60 pst. of the transactions globally occurring within the corporate group, and that more than half of the transactions are driven through tax havens, it goes without saying that there are huge cash flows in the world that are except for all forms of transparency. No matter how you had to read the book of Thomas Piketty and the point of the relationship between capital and income, it's a point that the capital declined in relation to income the first 50 years after 1900, before it again increased significantly. Today the ratio is almost back where it was around the year 1900. Return on capital is high when companies, for example: not paying taxes. Tax havens provide services to enable companies to build up capital outside the open market. Ordinary workers pay a high tax on their wages, while companies pay little or nothing. It is also common workers who are market, who pay for the production, and who buy the services. No matter how we view it, the inequalities in the world are greater than ever. At the same time, the flow of capital over the last decades has increased by an average of 9.4 pst. per year. It is twice as fast as GDP globally. This is not very sustainable. There is a direct link between illegal capital movements and Africa’s ability to mobilise resources for development. In a report from the African Union on illegal capital flight, the African Union points out that the countries where this money is spent have a responsibility to prevent the flow of capital, help Africa to get the money back and punish those who take it out. It is also why the International Bar Association, the world’s largest legal organisation, believes that acts from jurisdictions that encourage or facilitate the misuse of tax rules may constitute a breach of international human rights obligations. Last year I had a visit here at the Stortinget, under the direction of the organization Publish What You Pay, by 40 people from over ten different countries in the south, who have all striven to put in place this necessary transparency. They have asked Norway to go ahead and put in place an expanded country-by-country reporting, so this may be a good example for others to follow. It cannot be an objective for us that Norwegian companies should be able to contribute to draining developing countries for their legitimate share of the income from their own natural resources. So someone's asking, do you mean Norwegian companies are doing this? The answer is that I do not know – I hope not. Some might say that this weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. I would say that such legislation will strengthen it. As a Norwegian politician, I am not the least in doubt about who I would like to welcome into my country to extract natural resources from those who provided a guarantee of transparency, and those who provided an opportunity for secrecy. I think the answer gives itself to most people. In the previous matter we discussed, we showed that we were able to agree – at least I thought that when I wrote the article – on a register for real owners. Here we say that Norway must act with others, but also alone. We're clear that we want to go ahead. We should do that in the case of extended country-by-country reporting as well. This year, many important things are happening that can contribute to creating a better future for the world: climate change in Paris, the UN Summit on Sustainable Development Goals and Financing for the Development Conference in Addis Ababa. Transparency about taxes and contributions to halt the leakage of money and resources from developing countries will be essential to succeed in at least two of these summits, perhaps with all three. It would also have been positive if the Minister of Finance today said that she would be involved in facilitating an extended country-by-country reporting by regulation in Norway, and that Norway could go ahead, show action and inspire action also in others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1188	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Wickholm, for focusing on two such important issues as illegal capital flow and transparency requirements for cross-border capital flows. The adverse effects of illegal capital flight and tax evasion are difficult to quantify but are nevertheless serious and pose a major threat to the income base in many countries. The government is therefore committed to finding good solutions to combat illegal capital movements and to making capital flows visible across borders. However, combating capital migration is not something Norway can do alone. In order to maximise the impact, it is essential to reach agreement at international level on sound and appropriate legislation. Norway is therefore actively participating in several different international forums that are working to improve international legislation in this area, including: in the International Body Financial Action Task Force, also known as FATF. FATF is the leading international standard setter for action against money laundering and terrorist financing and is thus one of the most important international arenas in the fight against illegal and hidden flows of money. Under the Norwegian Presidency in 2012/2013, FATF introduced inter alia: tax evasion as a primary crime. This implies that financial institutions and other money laundering reporting agents are obliged to report tax evasions to the authorities where this is suspected. In addition, the FATF has developed standards that oblige Member State authorities to ensure transparency about real ownership information. Standards could contribute to greater transparency around cross-border capital flows in complex corporate structures and between parties where real owners are often hidden from the public. Significant efforts have also been made at national level to combat illegal capital movements and tax evasion and to ensure transparency of capital flows. Among other things, in recent years Norway has succeeded in concluding agreements for the exchange of tax information with countries that have often been designated as tax havens. This ensures that Norway has access to information on persons or companies subject to tax in Norway. Norway has further implemented and brought into force, as the first country in Europe, national country-by-country reporting requirements, also known as the LLR Code, to which Wickholm’s representative also refers. Country-by-country reporting is a relatively new form of reporting which requires the company to prepare and publish an annual report on its activities, with information broken down by jurisdiction and, where appropriate, for each project in which it operates. Such reporting differs from traditional financial reporting, where the entities consolidate and aggregate financial information in total for the company or for the whole group. The main objective of the LLR Code is to contribute to the increased transparency of the activities of undertakings engaged in the extraction of non-renewable natural resources, thereby making the relevant authorities responsible for the management of its natural resources. The Norwegian country-by-country legislation is based on EU rules. However, the deadline for implementing LLR requirements in the EU is not until 1 January 2016. The representative of Wickholm asks in the interpellation whether the government will introduce extended country-by-country reporting. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Stortinget has already adopted a legislation that goes significantly further in setting information requirements than that resulting from the adopted EU legislation. In that perspective, an extended country-by-country reporting requirement has already been introduced in Norway, as Wickholm calls for. EU rules are limited to information on payments to authorities. In addition, according to the Norwegian rules, the reporting agents are required to provide information on the company's investments, sales income, production volume and purchases of goods and services broken down by country in which the enterprise operates. The aim is that such enhanced information requirements should put the payments made by companies to the authorities in a broader context, so that we can be better suited to detecting corruption and to some extent also make visible how enterprises adapt their activities to tax. Furthermore, in order to ensure that the Norwegian Land-by-Land Reporting Code incorporated objectives to make any undesirable tax adjustment visible, the Ministry of Finance has laid down a requirement that reporting agents disclose the entity’s interest expense to entities in the same group but are resident in jurisdictions other than the reporting entity. It has also been requested that any group reports on country-by-country reporting should contain various information on its subsidiaries. As I can see, there is a final point that the representative of Wickholm addresses in his interview, namely that country-by-country reporting must be included as notes on the annual accounts. I cannot see that the requirement to include the LLR report as a note to the annual accounts will have particular significance for the degree of transparency surrounding the capital flows in the companies. I am here referring to the fact that the company's LLR report is today to be included as an annex to the annual accounts and is to be signed by the company's board members. By including the reporting in notes as part of the annual financial statements, the reporting would be subject to full external audit. However, this would result in a not insignificant additional cost of reporting. Norway is well advanced in country-by-country reporting requirements and has received international attention. In the context of Statoil’s first country-by-country report in March 2015, the Global Witness organisation issued a news issue inviting the US authorities to follow Norway’s example of extended reporting. This illustrates, in my view, that Norway has a good and forward-looking regulatory framework. It has not been said that Norwegian legislation should not be critically reviewed for improvements. In line with previous opinions, the government aims to evaluate the Norwegian country-by-country legislation after three years. The legislation has been in place for some years, and we will see more clearly any weaknesses that should be corrected and any improvements that should be made. These include: not necessarily simply to find the correct design of the information requirements. That is why we should not be hasty about laying down further rules. The results of an evaluation of the Norwegian LLR rules after a few years will also be available to the European Commission in the context of their evaluation of their own legislation in 2018. The government has not yet taken a decision on the scope of the evaluation or the issues that will be further assessed. However, in addition to the information requirements themselves, I believe that the issue of possible extension to industries other than the extractive industry and forestry in non-planted forests and the relationship to the annual accounts are two themes that may be relevant to the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1218	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I refer to the fact that it is also positive that Norway continues the work we are doing internationally by participating actively and being a driver of better regulation. As the Council of State says, we also have country-by-country reporting in Norway, but what we are asking for here is whether the Council of State will go further and close the gaps that we already see, for which we get criticism, in the country-by-country reporting. Thus, it is possible to shift profits from developing countries to tax havens without necessarily having to do so. I can't see why we're not going to start that job right now and tackle that problem of trying to seal the holes in a reporting code that we already have. Then there's going to be another and further discussion about what more we can do -- and in other ways -- internationally. The Council of State also refers to the Statoil report. It has obviously been shown as an example for follow-up. But it has also been criticised for mixing upstream and downstream figures in its reporting. When I asked the Council of State about this in a written question, she said that this is not something the Ministry of Finance will go into now, it is the responsibility of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. They must be able to take samples of this if they so wish. That's why I also have a little difficulty seeing how we're going to get on the table now all the information for the evaluation to be done, if you're not a little busy dealing with the problem, and make sure that the reporting done by Statoil is actually good, actually correct, compared to the Norwegian legislation. It is unfortunate that this report is being presented internationally as an example of follow-up, but not following the legislation adopted by the government. Then it shouldn't be an example to follow. We'll get back to it in the further debate, but I'll ask the Council of State to think about whether it's not possible already now to see if we can't try to close any gaps in the reporting we're asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1229	I believe that through my post I gave a very clear and clear expression of a real willingness to go further and ‘close some holes’, as the representative of Wickholm calls it, but in order to do so we need experience data to base ourselves on. I have noticed that some people believe that the legislation has weaknesses that should be corrected. But I also want to underline what I said instead, namely that we probably have the most comprehensive requirements for country-by-country reporting worldwide, and we have only been out implementing these kinds of rules. They entered into force on 1 January 2014 and the first reports are submitted this year. This is precisely why it is important that we allow the legislation to work and evaluate the reporting requirements that are now in place as a good starting point for assessing how we might progress, and what gaps should we close in this case. When the representative, Wickholm, says that it's about being “a little bit on”, as he called it, and taking on the problem, I think we are doing it, but then we need to know what we are going to be on, and we need to know what problem we're going to tackle, and then it's essentially an advantage, I think, that we have experience data to base on, so that we know what we're going to clean up in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1234	Thank you to the interpellant for going to a very important debate. I have to say that I am actually getting a little upset that during this day the Storting has had what is at least about becoming two very meaningful debates on financial transparency. I think that is a real step forward because it is a topic that has received far too little attention in this room, given the serious challenges that this represents. This is in many ways well connected with the previous matter we debated. It's about ensuring transparency around money flows, fences about the healthy, law-abiding part of the economy and, in this particular case, also about ensuring that the return from extracting natural resources comes to taxation. It was, as the Minister of Finance also pointed out, Sigbjørn Johnsen – as Minister of Finance – who introduced today's country-by-country legislation, and it was a very important step in the right direction. It is quite right, as the Minister of Finance said in his statement, that Norway, by taking the step ahead of international action. There is legislation that allows authorities, but also civil society – and there is an important point here, the general public – to assess how companies extracting natural resources actually operate. What is the extent of the activity? Is it linked to the contributions that companies return to society in the form of taxes? One of the main arguments at the time the bill was put before the Storting was to introduce a code that gave civil society and the judiciary a new and effective weapon to combat corruption. That's good. As a result, these requirements were also met by the Minister of Finance to report on the level of investment, sales revenue, production volume, etc. to put this together in a context that makes sense -- it's very important. But the fact that it was good and a right step to introduce this legislation in 2013, I do not believe that there is any obstacle to having an ongoing debate on how it can be further developed. The Minister of Finance is right in saying that if we compare with EU legislation, Norway has some form of extended country-by-country reporting. But the extension of country-by-country reporting – as the term usually used in debates on this – means making legislation a tool for combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning as well as corruption, because extended reporting will mean that we get a report from the entire group structure, all subsidiaries, we get an overview of where the money flows from trading in natural resources actually take the road. This will include, inter alia: means that companies have to report from tax havens. And if you want a regulation that allows you to follow cash flows from the extraction of natural resources, that element also needs to be in place. Then the Minister of Finance is in on the point of notes for the annual accounts and says that she can't quite see the point with it. But it is – no matter how we solve this effectively – a big point that we ensure reporting that is consistent with accounting figures and that is easily comparable to accounting figures. Again, it is about context and whether this should be verifiable and useful for the public who want access to that type of information. As I said, I believe that we have really seen the germ of good debates on financial transparency in the Stortinge today. Then the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen announced that the Labour Party and SV together in the revised national budget will present a proposal on extended country-by-country reporting. We did the same last year. Then we didn't get a majority for that. Many of the arguments put forward by the representatives of several parties throughout the day today would suggest that this is a thought in the process of being matured, so my heartfelt call to the other parties is to enter this complex of matters properly and assess it towards the consideration of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1253	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Wickholm, for helping to put the spotlight on important issues related to the illegal flow of capital and the transparency of capital flows across borders. It's a theme that is also the right-hand side. The fight against poverty is an important issue for all of us, and the fight against poverty is also the first of the eight thousand-year targets we have committed ourselves to through the UN. Furthermore, the 8th Millennium Goal is to develop a global partnership for development. This means, according to the government’s website, developing an open, rules-based and non-discriminatory trading and financial system that takes care of the needs of the least developed countries. This also means that this eighth Millennium Goal is relevant to this debate. An important part of this fight against poverty will and should be that poor countries are not being exploited by the richer part of the world, that poor countries are not being tapped for resources without benefiting themselves from the revenues generated. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Finance, in his reply to the interpellant, has just emphasised that the government is committed to finding good solutions to combat illegal capital movements and to make cross-border capital flows visible. The world is becoming more and more globalized, and that also means that cash flows flow more easily between countries and companies in different structures. I believe that this globalisation has helped to combat poverty precisely by increasing international production and trade, but at the same time this situation has some consequences that could be unfortunate. It's important to have ambitions for improvement. At the same time, these issues are international and must find their solutions also through international cooperation, not least with a view to maintaining competition neutrality in Norwegian companies in relation to competing activities from other countries. Among other things, the International Financial Action Task Force is one of the most important international arenas to set standards for anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures. The possibilities for multinational companies to report collectively for companies or for the whole group provide opportunities that prevent, inter alia, transparency. the number of values taken from each country. We must be able to say that Norway is already a precursor in this area, at least in a European context, when we have implemented and brought into force national country-by-country reporting requirements, and this means that companies must report country-by-country and make their activities visible. It is – as the Minister of Finance also pointed out – in order to avoid companies draining poor countries for non-renewable natural resources that this form of reporting was important to put in place. Our legislation is based on EU legislation. It is not unnatural that we harmonise with the EU, our closest partners and also our closest competitors, on these issues, but in addition Norway has already adopted a regime that goes beyond what the EU Directive provides. The EU rules are limited to information on payment to authorities, while the Norwegian rules go much further in mandatory reporting. In addition, we have concluded a number of tax agreements with different countries, which will also contribute to greater transparency and transparency in relation to capital flows. It is to the extent a good thing to demonstrate impatience in a good case, but it is set up here with an evaluation of the Norwegian country-by-country legislation after three years, and in addition, the EU will evaluate its legislation in 2018. In the evening post mention of this case on 1 June this year, it was referred to that Ecokrim in 2013 estimated that 136 billion. kr is exempt from taxes in Norway each year, which means a loss of tax revenue of almost 37 billion. kr annually. These are large amounts, and the aim of ensuring a national tax base is also an important dimension of precisely the part of the debate on so-called tax havens, in order to avoid capital flow and unwanted tax adaptation. This has rightly received increasing attention from different countries. Norway is well ahead of this work. This does not mean that we will not further develop the legislation that entered into force on 1 January 2014 – on the contrary, it will be put up to a process of evaluation and any new action after a three-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1272	There is no doubt that there is an important issue for the representative, Mr Wickholm, to address in this interview. Illegal capital flight and demands for openness are important things that it is good to shed light on and debate. The size of the illegal capital flow is, of course, difficult to know exactly. It's shown to some numbers and percentage developments here. Whether these are correct or too low or too high, there are huge numbers we're talking about. Unfortunately, many also indicate that developments have gone in the wrong direction in recent years. The fight against illegal capital flight is an international challenge. There are clearly limits to what Norway can do on its own, but Norway can do something. Norway has done a lot, and we are also well ahead when it comes to country-by-country reporting requirements. In addition, Norway is also actively participating in various international forums to get good action in place. I record from all those who have spoken that there is a broad political plurality that is some that this work should continue with unrelenting strength. The fight against illegal capital flight will not be resolved in the short term. It's a long job, but it's important that we contribute. All countries must contribute here. Norway has contributed and will contribute in the future, and as others have said: Norway is a transit nation. Then we are hoped that the actions that have been taken, which will be implemented in the future, will lead us to see a much more positive development in the next ten years than the previous ten years have shown. And I'm sure we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1285	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellant and the Council of State for a thorough answer. The debate on country-by-country reporting is an important debate on an important topic. It is about providing the important information we need to prevent corruption and providing useful information for investors. Above all, it is about preventing tax evasion from poor countries. Tax evasion is sour when it leads to distortions of competition in Norway, but it is even more serious when it prevents well-functioning markets and the development of welfare services in other parts of the world. The Christian People's Party has for a long time been aware that we want a system in which Norway is leading, and that the aim of introducing country-by-country reporting in Norway must be both to combat corruption and to prevent unwanted tax adaptation. We therefore have an offensive wording in our party programme: ‘KrF will introduce country-by-country reporting requirements that oblige companies to provide the necessary information to determine the amount of tax paid in each country.’ I'm not going to spend a lot of time on storytelling, but I have to correct the representative Marthinsen, who had a very good post, at one point. When former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen presented the proposal for LLR legislation by the Stoltenberg II Government, the regulatory objective was no longer to prevent unwanted tax adaptation. The proposal had been diluted, and it had become poor. Therefore, the Christian People's Party was pleased that we succeeded in the first budgetary negotiations to negotiate a better proposal, which was: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that land-by-country reporting legislation incorporates objectives to make unsolicited tax adaptation visible.’ This was an important victory, ensuring what was the objective of country-by-country reporting. At the same time, this was a good start for the Christian People's Party, and we were clear that we further want to get there that we get even better regulation than we have today. As the interpellant stressed, huge sums of money disappear from developing countries every year. In the fight for a fairer world, it is important that Norway takes the lead in preventing unwanted tax adaptation. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is here, and I am aware that she has the constitutional responsibility, but I should like the Minister of Justice to be here too, because in the fight against organised crime country-by-country reporting is important because you can get a better overview of the cash flows. Hidden cash flows and hidden money pose a great risk that money may end up in the wrong hands. The secret is that it is very difficult to hold companies responsible for crime. This includes, inter alia: violations of human rights and serious financial crime. In the fight against organised crime, therefore, this is an important tool that gives transparency about where the money is going and whether they go where they are going. In other words, I would say that this is one of the most important demands we can make to succeed in combating various forms of organised crime. In the 2013 decision, it is within the scheme, as the Council of State said, that it should be evaluated after three years. I ask the question whether it means 2016, or whether we have to wait even longer. At least the Christian People's Party has clear expectations that the evaluation will be carried out in a way that will allow for a debate on how to improve the scheme in order to avoid tax evasion in poor countries in an even more effective way. We want to make demands to improve the system. Two examples of such requirements may be: Extended reporting requirements: large multinational companies have to report on their tax haven support functions, and not just from the countries from which they extract raw materials. Knowing the functioning of the LLR Code needs to be extended to support functions in tax havens, so that companies have to report from all activities, providing better overview and better opportunities to prevent tax evasion. The scheme currently applies only to large companies engaged in the extraction of raw materials. In practice, this is -- here I'm using numbers from 2013 -- two of the 50 largest companies at Oslo Børs. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to increase the number. Land-by-country reporting has a high potential. Through country-by-country reporting, we get information that ensures that the cash flows are open, so that someone knows that the money goes where they are going. This hinders organised crime and a victory for others. It creates a level playing field for businesses and ensures tax revenue — both in poor countries and in rich countries. Norway at its best is a country that goes ahead. This is done by maintaining one of the objectives of country-by-country reporting, namely to prevent unwanted tax adaptation, and to continue to expand and improve the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1326	I would also like to first thank the interpellant for raising a very important question. The fight against illegal capital migration is important and, as many have pointed out here, the issue is important both in the slightly wider fight to end tax havens and in the fight against corruption and organised crime, which can be based on the opportunities offered by a tax haven. These countries, with their secret team, have as their own business idea the provision of legal structures that may obscure or obscure information about activities and ownership in the company’s home country. This is often done in such a way that companies avoid paying taxes to their countries of origin or to countries where they have access to resources or where resources are converted into goods and services. The consequence is that profits that should go to the community in the company's home country, or where the value creation takes place, are instead taken out of the country. In addition, there is the fight against corruption and organised crime. This may be countered by extended country-by-country reporting, which requires companies to report income, costs, taxes, production and investment from all countries in which a company is registered. This will provide investors with insight into the central accounting figures, which are valuable to all investors. I believe it is obvious that Norway should be at the forefront of the fight against illegal capital flight and a further fight against corruption and organised crime. It's something we as a well-functioning democracy that is well structured, has a self-interest in doing, and is also something that we have a responsibility to work against, along with our partners. On the inter-pellant side, it is expressed as impatience that we should move forward with an extended country-by-country reporting. On the left hand side, we fully agree with that and share the impatience. But I'm a little surprised about the matter that was discussed a little earlier today, about the state pension fund abroad, because there's a proposal where the government asks the government to draw up expectation papers for the state pension fund abroad in the areas of financial transparency and country-by-country reporting, and I think it's a little surprising that the Workers' Party is not involved in that proposal, which is just a step in the direction that we are all jointly expressing that we want to go. So, in the light of this discussion, I would like to think about it once again, to look at whether this proposal, which, after all, is asking for a prepared expectation document, is a proposal that you can agree on as a first step in one direction, given a problem and a problem that we all agree that it is important for Norway to be in the front line to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1341	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing a very important issue with which Stortinget has several opportunities to do something concrete, both today and in relation to the treatment of the revised national budget. There is a tax evasion from primarily poor countries by — frankly — a completely insane scale. The loss of poor countries is caused by illegal tax evasion, capital flow and exotic corporate structures, greater than aid and foreign investment to the same countries. Think about it a little bit! It means that in net a number of the world's poorest countries go in minus because there are Western and rich nutritionists there who are draining the country for resources. If there is one good argument against the right-hand side that more trade alone creates development in poor countries, it is precisely this. It does not help with any more trade, whether the trading and the trading operators do not pay the tax to which they are subject. What is needed is stronger institutions, a stronger ability and ability to tax profits properly, and therefore a good and institutional aid policy is also needed. I just wanted to add that. So it's not just poor countries that are affected by this avoidance of payment to the community. According to Økokrim and the Tax Directorate in Norway, as much as 135 billion can be made available. Disappear from Norway every year. It creates enormous competitive disadvantages for honest Norwegian business. In such a perspective, I think the passivity of the Right Party and the Advance Party in this matter is very alarming. This is an economic activity that robs both rich and poor countries of thousands of billions of dollars, leading to very distorted competitive conditions for large parts of the business life of both Norwegian and other countries. It is possible to do something about it by continuing to press for the introduction of stricter reporting rules. There are, as the representative Ropstad was about, several concrete things that can be done. First, all countries included in the financial reporting of upstream results must be included in the country-by-country reporting requirement. It's not like that today. Secondly, the full key country-by-country reporting should be included as a note to the annual accounts instead of referring to separate reporting. And thirdly, there's a number of exceptions that have to be removed. For example, the law states that the Ministry of Finance can make rules that exempt companies of a certain size, as well as ‘other exceptions’. There's little reason for that. I have noticed that the Left challenged the Workers' Party instead of voting on the matter we discussed earlier today, related to country-by-country reporting and the State pension fund abroad. I agree with Mr Elvestuen's call for the Workers' Party to support the SV's and Left's proposal. But I also want to challenge the Left, because the SV and the Workers' Party are coming together to promote a proposal for a stronger and enlarged country-by-country reporting that takes into account the elements of the Revised National Budget at which the representative Robstad was involved. And in view of the so-called high cigarette lead by the representative Elvesuen, I believe that the Left will also support the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals in the consideration of the revised national budget. Then we have adopted these changes that both the Christian People's Party and the Left have spoken for now, and then we have a majority on the Stortinget, given that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are also involved. We can form a majority on this matter right now in this debate. It would have been very uplifting if the Christian People's Party and the Left could confirm that they would vote in favour of the SV and the Workers' Party's proposals in relation to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1361	There was a very exciting summary from the representative Serigstad Valen at the end here. I note that the proposal that the Workers' Party and the SV are promoting together is entirely in line with those of Ropstad and Elvesuen, so it should be a good idea for a decision to be taken in Stortinget on 19 June on the extension of country-by-country reporting. Rupstad is right in his history. What he does not mention is that the Workers' Party also voted to prevent an unwanted tax adjustment – so I fully agree with the Christian People's Party there. The problem is that when the representative Marthinsen asked Minister Jensen a written question about this earlier, we got the same answer back: that this should be evaluated and looked at after three years. So it is not really a victory for the position that the Christian People's Party has won here in the Storting, but a pure training. On the basis of that, I also hope that the Christian People's Party will ensure that the government complies with the agreement that has been between the Christian People's Party and the government in that matter. Otherwise, there are few negative signals here in this debate. Everyone is busy and wants to work with it in a slightly different way. There are some long perspectives, and there are some short perspectives. However, the short perspective is that we can already improve the legislation available for country-to-country reporting, ensuring that tax haven support functions also need to be reported. But of course, I'm also very open to and welcome when Siv Jensen invites to a discussion about looking at other sectors as well, other possibilities for country-to-country reporting. We know that this is a big, continuous problem, which has been discussed by many. There have been examples of newspaper writing about everything from IKEA to Amazon and Google and how these companies are competing with small local businesses in the countries in which they are located, but they get a disproportionate advantage of being able to adapt to the tax systems of different countries by moving incomes and taking up debt in those countries where it might be beneficial. All in all, I am pleased with the debate and the signals coming from different parties here, and it will be exciting to follow this matter up to the final reading of the revised national budget on Friday 19 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1372	Let me also thank you for a good debate. The best thing about the debate is that we agree on the objective, namely that we need to look for different sets of instruments to both combat illegal capital flow and achieve greater transparency requirements for capital flows. This is about looking at different sets of rules and that we need to work both nationally and internationally to achieve this. Of course, it's not just about how we develop country-by-country reporting, but it's also about how we work in international forums to put in place good regulation in the different countries, which helps us to detect illegalities and also ensure good taxation. It is true that in most countries now participating in the debate on how to ensure new economic growth in the wake of the financial crisis — which, after all, many countries are still struggling with — the main heading of the debate is to increase investment. It is not possible unless we ensure that the tax bases in each country are in order, and that companies are thus not able to avoid taxation, because that is the key to increasing public investment in most countries, which must be seen as one of the important tools and instruments for boosting economic growth. So it's our overall ability to achieve these goals this is about, and then it's about more instruments, more actions, both nationally and internationally. Then it was also mentioned that one would want the Minister of Justice to be present. At least I can assure the Government that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice are working closely together on many of these questions, simply because there are different questions, some where I am responsible, and some where the Ministry of Justice is responsible. However, it is important that we have a joint effort, both at home and outside, when we are working on different types of legislation – be it the efforts of the FATF, be they against money laundering, be they against terrorist financing. There are many demanding questions that are on the agenda both at home and outside, and to which we must find good answers. That is why we should be proud that we are going ahead of the international front in this area. This should not be a resting place, but on the contrary, it should be a good basis to look at how we can reap from our own experiences and further develop a good code to be even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1383	That is when the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1394	Then it looks like we're ready to finish the meeting. Before we go to voting, the President will draw attention to the fact that there is the following letter from the Prime Minister's office to Stortinget, dated 5 June 2015:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1418	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 3, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 1 and 2, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 4 and 5, by Mr Vedum, on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, 6 and 7, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 8-11, by Terje Breivik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposal No. 12 and 13, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 12 and 13 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to develop a strategy for phasing out investments in fossil energy in the State pension fund abroad.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that guidelines are drawn up for State pension funds abroad that require the fund to withdraw from oil and gas companies with 25 pst. higher carbon emissions per unit produced than the industry average.’» The Greens have announced support for the proposals
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1463	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-11, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that an expectation document for human rights in general, including the rights of indigenous peoples, is drawn up promptly in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Native Peoples and the ILO Convention No. 169, and the employee rights enshrined in the core ILO Conventions.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a forecast document for the State pension fund abroad in the areas of financial transparency and country land reporting.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines on observation and exclusion from State pension funds abroad § 2 as follows: New point (d) extracts coal or produces power from coal. [[Regulation 2014-12-18-1793]] [[criteria for product-based exclusion of companies]] New point (e) produces or extracts oil and gas that is particularly polluting or environmentally hazardous.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines for observation and exclusion from the State pension fund abroad § 3 [[Regulation 2014-12-18-1793]] [[criteria for behavioural observation and exclusion of companies]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1503	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad with a view to investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for extractions from petroleum investments in the oil fund to be appropriate in the light of the general oil price risk for the Norwegian economy.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1527	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new and more thorough review of the possibility of developing ethical guidelines for sovereign debt, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the exclusion of the State pension fund from weapons which, in normal use, conflict with basic humanitarian principles also includes companies that produce nuclear weapons, nuclear infrastructure, nuclear equipment or services related to the production, maintenance and use of nuclear weapons.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1551	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with measures to ensure that the State pension fund abroad does not use tax havens in its activities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to include an evaluation of the State pension fund’s fiscal practices abroad in the annual call for contributions on the management of the State pension fund, including the fulfilment of expectations as set out in the Anticipation Document for tax and transparency, the outcome of the implementation of the Emergency Plan for tax evasion, the fiscal justification for all the establishment of a subsidiary, the reputational risk of investments in tax havens and the investor risk of investments in tax havens.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1575	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1593	I voted incorrectly on the previous vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1599	We're not going to do anything about that right now. Should someone hold the representative guilty for that, she will be shown the record that she made a little late notice of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1644	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Terje Breivik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Left proposal No. 2 and 3, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The budget asks the government to supplement the Report. St. 22 Financial Market Communication 2014, listing government ambitions and plans for the development of industrial policy towards the financial industry – in the fields of education, research and innovation, competitive conditions, capital management and sustainability.’.» [[2014-2015]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to implement the EU Regulation on capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises as soon as possible.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1677	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose amendments to the Financial Corporations Act § 17-13 as soon as possible to exempt from the general requirements for proportionate consolidation of holdings of less than 10 p.m..»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1884	The vote will be taken first at the vote on the motion for a resolution in Sections 6, 7 and 9. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1899	It shall be added to Sections 5 and 8a. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1913	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution for II. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1927	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e1941	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e2012	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-05.ana.ud785e2074	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
