ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e26	They called the alternates, for Nordland County Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and for Eastfold County Kjell Håvard Jensen, have taken the seat. The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e37	On behalf of myself and the representative of Audun Lysbakken, I would like to make a proposal on the legalisation of the infringement recipient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e42	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e45	On behalf of the representative Jenny Klinge and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the midwifery service in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e50	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e62	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Mr. Tine Sundtoft and Mr. Anders Anundsen for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main question, which is from the representative Eirin Sund.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e69	Earlier this week we could read that the Minister of Finance boasts of record-breaking appropriations on the way. Now it is the way the Minister of Transport governs the red-green NTP, so this is, as far as a pleasant recognition is concerned, also to the previous government when the Minister of Finance boasts of the appropriations. Today's government is also a few hundred million kroner behind the Labour Party's draft budget for 2015, but still there is a high level. The Progress Party was familiar with the choice to build a road without tolls, and the Minister of Transport's own State Secretary guaranteed zero tolls with the Progress Party in government. But now it's building a road with more tolls than ever before. My question to the Council of State is then: How big are the investments going if one subtracts the tolls, as the Advance Party promised the voters before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e76	Thank you for the question. With today’s government, appropriations are high on record, and total transport investment is much higher than that of the national transport plan. It is not unnatural that today's government implements the projects that are in the National Transport Plan, for those projects were also voted for by both the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, and what we were in opposition, we are also in favour of. In addition, we are doing far more than what was in the national transport plan. Now that we have established a road company – we did it yesterday – it was something that was not planned in the national transport plan, but on which our four parties went to the elections, and we are now implementing. One of the last things that the previous government rewrote about from the Ministry of Transport, before the red-green government went off, was a warning against reorganizing anything in the road sector. The road reform we are doing shows that we are not taking those positions very seriously, but we are implementing the national transport plan and more than that in our own way. In addition, we need to use more OPS. We have received in the 2015 budget a budget for maintenance far beyond what was in the national transport plan. Thus, in the national transport plan, the maintenance allowance would continue to grow this year. With today’s government and the majority of today’s majority, maintenance operations are being reduced for the first time in many decades. It is granted this year over 26 billion. kr to Vegvesenet. Then a lot of money is allocated to county councils for county roads. The National Road Budget is increasing by about 20 pst. from last year to this year. The appropriations for county roads increase by around 146 pst. in 2015 compared to the red-green government presented for 2014. And where the red-green government granted about 5 billion. kr less than what you have to average in NTP, so today's majority grants 1 billion. kr more than average in NTP for this year. It shows a bet far beyond what was planned from the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e87	I have promised the Council of State that the Workers' Party will be involved, as we have always done, in organizing things better, so that we can get more out of the money. Then I want to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the Workers' Party has also continued to pursue policies since 2013, as much as I expect the Council of State to pursue policies before 2013, when he joined the government. So when I relate to the budget that is our budget, I relate to the Labour Party's 2015 budget. There, the Workers' Party has more for maintenance as well as for roadside than the State Council has. But the government doesn't answer what's my question, and that's what his national transport plan would look like without tolls. Then I can help the council a little bit: Had the Advance Party followed up their own promises, they would have had to make an NTP with about 100 billion. kr less, which is the toll percentage. Much of the budget is based on money that the Council of State initially opposes. So I ask the Council of State, isn't it a paradox – or doesn't it seem like a paradox?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e94	The progress party has been very offensive in building more roads. If the Progress Party had run this country alone, the representative would have seen even more money going on, even more money for the railway, and no tolls, simply because as a party we believe that we should save a little less in oil wealth and a little more in real estate in Norway. So even if we sit and negotiate and agree with three other parties, we've got a much stronger commitment to transportation and a smaller share of toll than the red-green government made. So even though not a single party has a majority alone in the Stortinget and can thus sit alone in government, the Progress Party gets an impact for a lot, but the Left, Christian People's Party and Right also get a big impact. In sum, that means we have a government platform where we're going to build more roads than the red-green plans, and we're going to have a lower toll share. Then I think it's better to sit in government and be with and influence things in the right direction, rather than sitting in opposition, as the Progress Party did, without getting through a single toll project and just seeing that it grew sky-high with the red-green government. Now there's a change, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e101	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e104	I hear that the Council of State does not want to answer to questions about tolls, but the Council of State is clear that what we are in opposition to, we are also in favour of that. It is not my intention to correct the council, but it must be on anything but toll it then. For the Progress Party in the government, tolls are encircling and will develop this way of financing the road. In fact, as the Council of State itself says, structural changes, both a road company and a toll reform, have been introduced until 2050. Is the Council now ready to declare the Progress Party as a toll party, or do I also get answers about the high appropriations and everything other than what I ask?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e109	I think it's very nice to talk about the road trip to the government, because it exceeds what was planned by the previous government, so it's not unnatural that I'm proud of it. As far as the toll sector is concerned, we have already reduced the toll level of the motorists by several billion dollars compared to what they would get if the red-greens were heading according to their plans. We have also now introduced a toll reform which means that we go from about 60 companies to 3. This could save administrative costs. We're looking at better ways to finance it, which means reduced financial costs. In sum, this means that you can increase the discounts quite significantly in many places. Where the previous government before it went off decided to remove a lot of toll discounts, we're going to increase them, just to reduce the load that tolls are for the motorists. Then I have also registered that the Workers' Party has been afraid that what the government and the majority are doing on the road is becoming a roadbonanza. It's a little strange to get a question in this room where one gives the impression that today's government is doing nothing more than the red-green plans, while in the class struggle we see that the red-green fear a roadbonanza with today's government. The opposition should agree on how to criticize us, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e116	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e119	The establishment and decision of a road carrier is a Norwegian record, and probably a world record, in tolls – at least 30 billion. kr – and the government guarantees tolls until 2051. That is the reality of the matter. But tolls and government appropriations are linked, and in connection with the road company, the Council of State told the debate on the NRK on 16 April that the new road company would receive 5 billion. SEK in 2016 and 5 billion. kr in 2017. This was drawn on a graph of clear columns. So my question is, can the Council of State, even in Stortinget, promise that the state road company will get 5 billion? SEK in 2016 and 5 billion. kr in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e127	It's a little strange to be challenged about things like this. tolls where the Workers' Party and the Centre have protested when the government has proposed to reduce tolls, and so I get criticism from the same parties when I do not carry out a reduction in tolls. So it would have been an advantage if the opposition criticised in line with the policy they are pursuing, and not criticised in contravention of the policy they themselves are pursuing. In the toll reform, we have argued that one of the road companies should have the tolls in the NTP, simply because that is the decision taken by the Stortinget. When one comes to the final road projects, I imagine we're doing the same thing we've done on the E6 in Helgeland North – removing toll stations and reducing tolls – but we do that in the individual project when it's presented. But in order for the Storting to have something to do with the portfolio of the road company, it is natural that we base the distribution of state resources versus toll money that the Storting has already adopted, and then we take the changes. So far there have been reductions in toll rates in a number of road projects, just because we have a new government that wants less tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e134	Abid Q. Raja - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e137	The left is well satisfied with the way the road company and the reform around this has been, and I hope that we will soon be in the end of the negotiations on the railway reform. We have reason to be satisfied that together we overfill the NTP, build safer and more efficient roads and for the first time reduce the railway backlog. Tolls are a necessary evil, and we probably know all the many drivers who are annoyed by the tolls, but Norwegian drivers are waiting for this, and I think most people also accept this undead because it's a fissure layer. Does the Council agree that tolls will be able to achieve the objective of both better and more roads and more public transport? And isn't that why this fissure layer, where tolls are a necessary evil, something you have to accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e144	I think everyone understands that if you're going to build more roads, more railways and better public transport, you have to have more appropriations. But where that money comes from, I think there's a big political disagreement about – you have to take this over the state budget, or you have to take it through toll financing. Whether you're a FrP or not, it's a fact that tolls are one of the most expensive ways to collect money for the Norwegian population, because then you borrow money, which you have to pay interest on, and in addition, there's administrative costs of charging it, which are often around 10 pst. Had kept 10 pst. Of all they collect, to collect the taxes, I think we would have said that the tax rate needs to be reformed. But on tolls, this becomes an extra tax that most people don't like, but as politicians seem comfortable not to give priority. And yet I'm in a government where we've had a pass like the FrPs to get less tolls than what the red-greens put up to, and we're also getting more roadway. That's what's called a compromise, which makes no one 100 percent satisfied, but I believe everyone on the bourgeois side is far more satisfied with what it is now than it was in the previous eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e151	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e154	A follow-up to the Minister of Transport on Tolls: In Bergen and Oslo, the Right-steered cities break the boundaries of what is safe and clean air shaking often. The consequence is that people get sick, children have to stay inside the nursery and people with heart and lung disease die. The main answer from the Right-Fremskritsparte Council in Bergen is to introduce environmentally-differentiated toll rates, i.e. those that pollute the air the most, to pay the most. Here in Oslo, a majority of the parties go in for the same reason. Nevertheless, the government parties here at Stortinget are voting down the proposal on environmentally differentiated tolls when SV proposes it. It would have been thought that a government with a former mayor from Bergen would quickly say yes to giving the municipalities the opportunity to charge environmentally-differentiated toll rates, but now it is almost two years, and then my question is: why will the Minister for Transport not do as the party traps in Bergen ask – to say yes to environmentally-differentiated tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e161	There are two aspects to that matter: one is that in today's law there is already the possibility of having higher tolls on the days when there is very bad air. There is an opportunity in today's law, which has been there long before today's government joined, but which a local government has chosen not to use. Then I think it's strange that one doesn't want to use the tools that are, instead of all the way to call for new ones, which really give the exact same result. The second is that many of the challenges that the representative Holmås is now addressing are that there are too many diesel cars in the cities. The growth in the sales of diesel cars occurred especially during the previous government, which made diesel cars cheaper to buy, at the expense of petrol cars, and which was therefore themselves involved in creating the problem that they are now hair-removing annoyed that exists and is not solved by today's government. I will promise that, together with the Minister for Climate and Environment – yes, with the entire government – we are working with many different approaches in both the car sector, the ferry sector and industry to reduce emissions and environmental damage locally and globally. We're going to get into this, but there are a lot of instruments that already exist, and that should have been put into use in cities before a request... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e168	Rasmus Hansson – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e171	The size has recently decided to ask to join the EU Climate Framework Directive. One of the consequences of this, according to the government, and especially according to the Left, is that in the non-quota sector, 40 pst would have to be cut. emissions by 2030, i.e. in 15 years. This applies above all to the road sector. It is therefore interesting to hear this competition between position and opposition about who will build the most new roads in the period up to 2050. Can we hear from the Minister for Transport something just as concrete and equally binding about how to simultaneously cut emissions in the road sector by 40 pst. in the next 15 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e176	I really don't feel that there is any competition with the Workers' Party about who builds the most road, when the Workers' Party's concern has been that the road company would create a roadbonanza, and when the Workers' Party in other contexts has gone out and feared that the government will build a quadruple highway between Stavanger and Kristiansand instead of two-field roads. It just shows that the Labour Party believes that we are doing too much, not too little, on the roadside. As far as emissions are concerned, I fully agree that we need to work to get them down. But I have the vision that the roads we are now building, both in the East, in North Norway and in the West, will be driven by the next generation, which has cars that don't have emissions. The current level of investment – almost across all batches – in the case of zero-emission cars and low-emission cars means that the CO2 emissions raised by the representative Hansson will be largely eliminated from the transport sector. Then it's important that in this context we also look at how we can make Europe create even more renewable energy, so that you don't fire up the electric cars with coal power. Saying that one should not build roads because we have emissions from the cars today shows a lack of perspective on how the next generation will transport itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e186	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e190	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. On 17 April, the government authorised Nordic Mining to make landfills for mining waste in Fördefjorden. They were allowed to deposit 250 million tonnes of rock, dust and chemicals in the sea for 50 years. It involves a 150-metre-high underwater waste heap in an area of 3 km2. Last November, the Environment Directorate gave its environmental professional opinion, in which they clearly opposed the landfill. The director thought the deposit would destroy the ecosystem below. They were concerned about the bottom fauna – blue-winged, piggå, coastal cod and eel. Both blue-winged, piggå and eel are endangered and on the red list. But then the climate and environment minister asked the directorate to come up with a new assessment, where they also addressed other, social, considerations. In the new report, the conclusion was different. Having weighed interests against each other, the Environment Directorate believes that emission permits should be granted, under strict conditions, on the basis of the expected tax revenues and the expected jobs – a few hundred locally and up to 500 nationally. We fully agree that when two important considerations stand in stark contrast with each other, there must be interest in such matters, and those considerations really have to be taken by politicians. The Directorate for Health does not recommend that people eat more sugar for the sake of the Freia workplace or smoke more for the tobacco industry. I ask for a concrete response to whether the Council of State really believes that it is the responsibility of the Environment Directorate to assess the need for jobs and possible tax revenues in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e206	I understand that this matter creates commitment. It is not a simple matter, and we have spent a long time dealing with it. In fact, Naustdal and Askvoll municipalities have wanted to exploit the mineral deposits in Engebøjellet, and they have adopted a regulation plan for the area. Nordic Mining ASA has applied for an emission permit for the mining activity, and the government has taken a decision to allow mining activities in Engebøjellet on the basis of extensive and thorough professional assessments. The decision is taken after weighing the disadvantages of the establishment against the benefits of such an activity. The environmental impact of the maritime landfill is considered to be limited, in particular because the spread of tailings beyond the planned landfill is unlikely. I have focused on the Directorate-General for the Environment's assessment that the data show that the risk of particulate dispersal from the deposition of residues will be low. When asked to give their opinion on emissions permits, the Environment Directorate assessed it under the pollution law. The Pollutant Act is clearly designed to balance environmental issues with social issues. This is the pollution law, so I believe that the Environment Directorate has done its job under the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e213	With this answer from the Council of State, it might be tempting to ask what it costs in tax revenue and jobs to get rid of a rosary, but I'll leave that to me. But who is going to give clear and clear environmental advice about not the Environment Directorate? With this way of dealing with such issues, it will be impossible to know whether we have received an environmental advice, or whether we have received a advice where there are societal considerations that are balanced against environmental considerations. It is not, of course, an environmental advice, as the Council of State claims, when the Directorate of the Environment believes that tax credits and jobs are more important than some red-listed species. Is not the Council of State afraid that the authority and confidence of the Environment Directorate will disappear?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e220	I am not afraid that trust in the Environment Directorate will disappear once the Environment Directorate has done its job. First, they gave their opinion on the regulatory plan in two rounds. When the department asked for more answers to questions about the fish on the red list, the answer came back in letter No. two around the control plan, and it is quite clear that it will take a little longer to achieve the stock targets for pig gå and blue langå, but that there is no danger that these will disappear from the ecosystem due to the sea landfill. Then we asked the Environment Directorate to make its recommendation when it came to the emissions permit. In that case, the Directorate for the Environment will consider what is the intention of the pollution law, and then these two considerations will have to be weighed. That's what the directorate has done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e225	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e228	It weighed the anger of the signed and Christian People's Party when the red-green government changed the definition of the ice edge, which was firmly anchored in the overall management plan. They changed it when they wanted to open the Barents Sea south-east of oil activity. They deviated from the definition and made a new one, where they defined it as ‘the ice edge observed at all times’. We all agree that there should not be oil activity where there is ice, but we do not agree on where the ice is going. Governments therefore wanted to update the definition. First, the Polar Institute issued an opinion on the ice edge — in April last year — where a strong warning against the opening of some of the blocks in 23rd concession rounds. Then there's an order from the department where the premises in the assessments change – and flip, so the ice edge has moved considerably further north, and 23rd concession rounds can go as planned. Does the Council of State consider it good administrative practice to ensure that environmental advice is changed to suit the government's own political positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e237	In any case, it makes sense to listen to the professional advice given. For the purposes of updating the management plan, the Ministry has used exactly the same definition as the Stortingen used in 2006 and 2011, requesting up-to-date data on it. When the Storting last treated this, there was a number that was over 22 years, from 1967 to 1989. Now we have got numbers from 1985 to 2014 – approx. 30 years – which is a normal period for this. So the representative Roppstad mixes in what the Polar Institute said – as a hearing opinion – about round 23, but it's something different than what we've asked the Polar Institute to update the numbers from the same definition that the Stortinge used twice before. We have said that we should look at a new management plan by 2020. Then it's more natural to come back to it to see if a should have a different definition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e248	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e251	There is no doubt that environmental advice must form the basis for the political conclusions drawn. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned that the government is concerned with sustainable development and that individual decisions and permits do not impose such a burden on the environment or on the resource base that these qualities are reduced over time. Given at least the process – there are actually several processes – that have been linked to the Fördefjord maritime landfill, where there is disagreement about the solution choice, it would be interesting for Stortinget to know how the Minister for Climate and Environment will continue to work to ensure that the permit does not impair the environment and the resource base of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e258	That is why the government has spent a long time dealing with this matter. A lot of questions have been asked. The previous government asked many questions in this matter. There have been long investigations, one has looked at the flow conditions in Fördefjorden for a whole year. Now we thought we had so many facts in this case that we could make a decision. There has never been such a strict environmental requirement for a maritime landfill in the past. What we have also called for is that it should be monitored with regard to maritime food safety. This will be followed up by the Environment Directorate, in close cooperation with the Food Authority. With the demands that have been made, and after good work from the previous government by asking many wise questions in this demanding matter, we have at least received a response to much of what we have wondered about. We listened to the environmental advice and were then ready to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e267	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e271	Permits under the pollution law are a responsibility which is primarily the responsibility of the government, and is not necessarily a matter for the Stortinget. But it requires the Storting to feel confident that the process around the permits is well and thoroughly managed, and that there has been an independent process. In the process of maritime landfill in Fördefjorden, it must be said that it is a bit striking that the Environment Directorate had first one assessment, where they pointed out that there were some concerns. So there was an exchange of letters between the department and the mining industry, and then the directorate came up with a new recommendation, where they tone down a part of the problem they had in their first recommendation. Then it goes six months, and then the department gives the permission. As I said, the Storting must be able to trust that this is an independent and thorough process. How can we trust that in this case, when the directorate here also changes its recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e280	Here it is important to distinguish between what the directorate replied in two rounds around the control plan. First came a letter from the directorate. We came back with more questions, and the directorate worked more to answer those questions. Then the directorate found that there was no danger of eradicating blue-winged and piggå, but that it would take longer to reach the stock targets. A more detailed study showed that there is more overfishing that is the challenge of that problem – hence the answer – based on more knowledge from the Directorate for the Regulatory Plan. Then we asked for the directorate's recommendation on the pollution law, where, according to current legislation, the directorate should approach and look at the environmental aspects of society. It's completely open what the directorate has responded to this after the decision has been taken. All documents are also public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e287	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e290	If it is true, as the Council of State says, that the environmental requirements of the property in Fördefjord are the most stringent, it says a lot about how inadequate the legislation is. Here it's about dumping $4 million. tonnes each year. It's about filling up a fjord with 150 meters of sludge with chemicals. And there's no doubt, as many have mentioned here, that with regard to the Environment DG's recommendation, their environmental recommendation was to go against a landfill. Then there has been a process in retrospect, where, after pressure from the ministry, they change their position and give them permission. But my question concerns another process and the role of the Environment Directorate, namely the Repparfjord process, where the government has provided a regulatory plan. Can we be sure, when the Environment Directorate is now going to make an assessment under the pollution law, that they are completely free to make that assessment, and that the government will also follow a negative recommendation regarding the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e297	I want to distance myself from the accusation that we've been pushing the directorate. We have asked for the views of the directorate for several rounds – twice in the case of the regulatory plan, once in the case of the emissions permit. The matter of Repparfjorden is being dealt with in the directorate. The Directorate follows exactly the same procedure for Repparfjord as they did for Fördefjorden. Then we get back to what the directorate's recommendation will be in that case. They work as usual under the pollution law also in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e304	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e307	Fördefjorden is a clean and rich fjord – a national salmon fjord. When one stands at the top of the Engebøjellet and looks down on the village of Wevring, it beats one how beautiful it is, and one understands the dimensions of the destruction that the government has allowed. The Fördefjord has important spawning and breeding areas for fish species that are threatened by extinction, which will be destroyed, or will be heavily affected. The Directorate for the Environment says: ‘The negative environmental impact of the maritime landfill that we have identified could be reduced to a small extent by the requirement of any permit under the Pollution Act.’ 60 seafood establishments in and around the fjord fear their workplaces as a result of the conversion of fjords in the village of Wevring into a waste site for 250 million tonnes of finely ground mining waste. The people of Wevring, and the seafood and tourist industry along with them, regard mining waste dumping as a serious threat. This has been the blessing of the Council of State. That's why I ask: Has the Minister for the Environment been in Wevring at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e323	I am a little surprised at the way SV fronts this case. The SV itself supported the mineral strategy of the previous government, which opens up the use of marine landfills. Had SV really thought that this is so critical of nature, why did they not put an end to this immediately in 2011? Why did they ask for more knowledge? The knowledge SV ordered, we got on our table, and that's what we used in the decision. So the investigations that SV ordered have actually made us more confident that the particle spread is low. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås knows that there has been an SV State Council on an inspection in Wevring at the time when it was important that the department was there and got more information about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e328	So the answer is no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e333	The President would point out that we are not going to have any comments in the Chamber that way. Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e338	In its assessment of the emissions permit in Fördefjorden, the Environment Directorate has provided two parallel reviews. One is of environmental impact -- they're all negative. This is the remit of the Environment Directorate. Then they've given a parallel assessment of societal benefits. It's about jobs and tax revenue. This has limited insight into the Environment Directorate, but it is true that it complies with the pollution law. This means that the reason why the emission permit has been granted is that the number of jobs – 300 and some figure for tax revenue – is considered good enough to ignore the environmental consequences. The question to the Council of State is then: if it turns out that there are not 300 jobs, but 200 or 150, or if all the workers become commuters, or tax revenue somehow gets lower, does the Council have any criterion, a plan, because when it is not good enough to grant an authorisation for dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e348	The Directorate for the Environment gave two opinions on the regulatory plan. In its second answer, the directorate was quite clear that it would take longer to reach the stock targets for blue-winged and piggå. They didn't say these fish would be wiped out. So the directorate, as mentioned several times now, has dealt with the emission permit according to the criteria of the pollution law. There has been a matter that has been going on for a long time. I understand that there are a lot of feelings about the matter. The government has based its decision on the facts, on the many investigations requested by the previous government. That is why we have agreed with the strictest environmental requirements that have ever been given around a maritime landfill – also with a clear demand for this to be followed up by the Environment Directorate and the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e355	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e358	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. On April 28, this year, we read in the Address Paper that central Norwegian airports are in danger. Avinor estimates to close down local airports during run-in periods. Such a scheme, together with reduced flight capacity requirements, scares many people that it is the beginning of good local air services. The rapporteur, Hans Vintervold, at Røros, says to the Address Paper, "I am terribly concerned about what is now happening." What are the ambitions of the State Councils of Airports, such as: Namsos, Rørvik, Brønnøysund, Sandnessjøen, Mosjøen and Røros? And what requirements will the Council of State place in the forthcoming invitation to tender for the purchase of air transport by the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e367	I have great ambitions on behalf of Norwegian aviation in general, both in terms of the airlines operating in and outside Norway, and in terms of the airport infrastructure we are going to have. For many airports, day-to-day communication is very important. Just a week ago, I drove E10 to Lofoten and visited four of the airports on that route. Everyone I met stressed that access to an airport was important. On the other hand, there was a good discussion about whether the most important thing was to be able to go to the airport and have a route offer to the nearest big city, or whether one is willing to drive 20-30 minutes to get to an airport with a larger route offer, both in the region and not least nationally, and perhaps internationally. It is important for me to listen to the different views that come from both local authorities, who often use the local airline network to travel at meetings – in Lofoten it is especially about getting to Bodø – and from the business community, which sees a greater potential if you get a larger network. Then they can make businesses establish themselves in the regions, and not least tourism can have a larger impact on the tourist population if they make it easier for people to fly to the area. Then we have the needs of the local people. One often sees that there are leakages at airports – do people always travel out of the nearest airport? No, it turns out that individuals are leaving the airport that has the best offer. That means that in Lofoten, many people travel to Evenes, because that costs a lot less, and one has several offers. It'll be the sum of what we do on transportation, that's to look at how we connect roads, railways and airports so that one gets the best possible offer in each region, so that one meets both the needs of individuals and not least the needs of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e378	I registered that the Council of State was not concrete when it came to the airports that I picked up. The concern of a very large number of communities is that you can stand in front of a fairly large concentration of airfields. We have seen the importance of aerodromes in terms of preparedness, both in terms of health transport and fire preparedness, which was a problem both in Flatanger and in Sogn and Fjordane. I want to challenge the state council again on how he looks at the short-haul network and the airports. I register the processes for assessing larger airports, but it is still important to look at the small ones. Is it such that you want to lower the requirements for flight capacity so that you end up with 17-19-seater aircraft instead of what you have today, or will you maintain a requirement for flight capacity in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e385	For me, it is very important to show the overall approaches that we have. Then we can start discussing the individual airport, which I believe is the representative's primary wish. I want to show how we can get the best possible flight offer for everyone by looking at the whole of what is offered. We're going to announce the offer for the FOT routes in South Norway during the spring. I think I'm familiar with that. So Avinor has done a job of looking at the airport structure – which is normal at least occasionally – in connection with the national transport plan. But my State Secretary Tom Cato Karlsen has already been in the media, among others. in Sogn and Fjordane and said that the aim here is not to reduce the flight offer or to shut down airports, but to look at how we can operate them in the best possible way. Today, we spend about a billion dollars subsidising airports. If we could reduce the need for subsidies by getting more people to travel, more to take part of the costs or reduce the level of costs, that would be the best thing. In addition, it is important to me that once we have a flight offer, we should use it as much as possible to get the footprint down per traveler.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e392	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e395	The Council of State will not discuss the individual airports, but for people and business it is that they travel from individual airports. In the election campaign, there was a discussion – and there has been a long discussion – at Helgeland about airports. There the Progress Party just before the election entered an ad in Mo in Rana where it said: Build the Polar Circle Airport – Helgeland needs a major airport. It shall be a major aerodrome covering the whole region. Not surprisingly, the party of progress the same day, in the Lake of Mosque, entered an ad saying: Preserve the Lake Mosque airport, Kjærstad. My question – and that is very concrete – is: Can the Council of State promise businesses and the people of the Sea that the Advance Party stands by the promise to preserve the Mos Sea airport, Kjærstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e402	Now I have used two answers to tell you that it is important for me to have a good overall flight offer. In it is not the most important thing to discuss one and one airport, but that people who currently have an flight offer should continue to have at least as good a flight offer in the future. We have an investigation on the south airport structure. It is also about looking at how we can ensure that we get the best possible offer. Then there's a big fight to keep the flight offer you have today in many places. The representatives of the Nordic Progress Party have fought hard for all of their aerodromes. Now there's an investigation that I think the representative Pollestad is also aware of, if the Polar Circle airport, while a study of the consequences it will have. No decisions have been made there, and therefore it will not be possible for me to conclude until Avinor and the other actors who are conducting investigations up there have concluded. But once again, what both business, politicians and citizens say is that having a good flight offer is very, very important, and it's the Progress Party and the whole government have to work to keep us going in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e411	Kjell-Idar Juvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e414	Good flight offer, says the Council of State. Does that also apply to Narvik? The answer to the debate we have had so far, we also get 20 May, when Avinor comes up with his report. But Narvik airport is proposed by Stortinget when Hålogalandsbrua is finished. It has been introduced by Stortinget as a prerequisite for financing the bridge, where the airport was exchanged. Now I see that today's government has raised doubts about this, and has said that it should be closed before the bridge is finished. In February 27, this year, the State Secretary of the Advancement Party, Tom Cato Karlsen, said that they will close the airport at the end of 2016, which is approx. three quarters of a year before the bridge is completed. Then we see a few weeks later that the State Secretary in the same department, but from the Right, John-Ragnar Aarset, says that they will work so that it can be kept open until the bridge is finished. Then, of course, both the narcissistics and we wonder what the government really means, because this is of course important for Narvik. Is it the vision of the Secretary of State or the Right-State Secretary that applies as current government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e422	It's very easy to solve, so I don't think we should make a bigger problem than that. There's a big decision on this, and that big decision we're going to follow up to the point and the dot. Regardless of what individuals think – and I do not know myself in the ways in which one is reproduced – the decision to collapse is that this aerodrome should remain up until the bridge is up or up until 31 March 2017. That's what the Storing has decided, that's what we're going to follow up. We can't go across the decision of the Storting, either one direction or another. I was now visiting even's airport. Narvik will, with Hålogalandsbrua, get an amazingly much better flight offer in the future than you've had in the past. We already see that there are about 700,000 traveling from Evenes airport, far more than what travels from the other local airports, and people travel quite far and past local airports to get to Evenes. It shows that people are busy with frequency and travel time overall, although it also involves some driving by car. [[President clubs]] But I see here how people vote with their feet, and it will also... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e429	That's it. Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e434	Societal benefits are high for the runway aerodromes. They contribute significantly to the growth and development of business and housing in districts, yes, these airports contribute significantly to the reduction of the distance disadvantages of operating in districts. These are airports that make district business able to do business locally, with markets and customers in more central areas — yes, many call them the hub of business. In a majority comment from the four cooperation parties to the 2015 budget, the government was asked to review how to facilitate increased participation by private actors in the operation of Avinor’s smaller airports. The aim was to ensure the most rational and efficient operation possible in order to strengthen the financial base of the regional airports in the future. How far has the government come in this work, and how can this conversion strengthen and secure the regional airports in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e441	I thank you for the question. It is important that we look at the cost level at airports, so that we can ensure good operation – and, more generally, increased offers – by keeping costs in check. The decision made by the Stortinge gave us the basis needed to do a job there. We have now outsourced the mission that Avinor is carrying out, to look at what is possible to achieve by increasing the use of private operators, to bring down the prices, and then to bring down the costs, which means that we better ensure the operation at the airports we have. This applies, for example: Welling, fire, parking and other things. In addition, we know that one in Bodø has now worked for several years to get remote control of towers, which will also help reduce costs. Then I think this debate is quite interesting, because when the Minister for Climate and Environment is present, she often tends to get questions about how she can make people fly less. So here I get the big question about how to get people to fly more, and that shows that here we have an interesting theme with many facets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e448	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e451	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. One of the world's most biologically rich areas is the edge of the ice and the edge of the ice. In its proposal for the Storting on the updating of the management plan, with the calculation of the ice edge, the government has only taken into account an update of the figures on how this was calculated at the time of adoption of the management plan. As the representative Ropstad pointed out earlier, the Polar Institute, when giving its opinion on the 23rd round of the concession, stressed that the old method of calculation had expired. They therefore recommended a more up-to-date and better professional-based estimation method, i.e. looking at maximum ice prevalence over the past 30 years. What's crucial about the ice-cream and the ice-cream zone is that we use a management that relates to where this rich biodiversity actually is. Then my question becomes: why has the government chosen to ignore the latest available and most up-to-date knowledge when they have submitted their case to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e462	I would like to say a little about Storting's assumptions first in this case. The size provided for updating the management plan for the Barents Sea and Lofoten during the next major period in June 2013 when examining the North Sea and Skagerrak management plan. In the examination of the notification of the opening of the Barents Sea south-east of petroleum activities, including in June 2013, the Stortinge provided that the issue of petroleum activities at the ice edge and the polar front will be re-examined in the context of the next update of the Barents Sea Management Plan. So the size in the same month was provided for both the update and that the edge of the ice was to be included in this work. These are the assumptions that the government has now followed up with the announcement that we made on 24 April. In this Communication, the government has followed the same definition as the Storting twice in the past, in 2006 and 2011. It's now said that the Polar Institute has a different definition. That's a two-thing mix. In its reply to the 23rd concession round, the Polar Institute gave its opinion on the basis of 1 pst. probability of ice. There was no new definition of the edge of the ice, there was an answer they gave in a hearing opinion. The current definition, we think, is the Size twice established, and in an update of the management plan, we thought it was natural to use the same definition. But we asked the Polar Institute to come up with new numbers within the same definition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e471	The fact that Stortinget has been based on a knowledge back in 2011 and 2007, if I remember the right year, is one assessment. But the crucial thing is that this is of the richest biodiversity that we have. It is about avoiding petroleum activities into those areas. The Polar Institute reported in its consultation opinion was that the old assessment has been out-dated in order to calculate this area as best as possible. The Government may take initiatives on an independent basis and submit proposals based on the latest available knowledge. My question again is not what the Stortinget has meant, but why the government has chosen not to base the latest available knowledge on its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e478	What was important to us was to look at the apparent contradiction, as it can be interpreted as, that the Storting has decided that one should not start drilling at the edge of the ice at the same time as one has decided where the Barents Sea should be south-east. So, as I mentioned in the previous answer, Stortinget has also asked for an update of the management plan. Then we thought it was the most correct thing to use the same definition, but asked the Polar Institute for the last number base to see if it could be a seemingly opposite, which now turns out not to be the opposite. A new management plan is now to be implemented towards 2020. Then it may be natural to see if a person is going to enter a new definition in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e485	It opens for follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e488	I refer to the answer the Minister has given about Fördefjorden earlier today, where he and the government use the Environment Directorate for everything it is worth. But when it comes to the ice edge, the government has chosen to ignore the recommendations of the same directorate – strange. How does the Minister justify and justify such a slumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e494	There are two different things. One is a definition of the edge of the ice, and we asked the Polar Institute to update the latest available data in the same definition. We got that, and now we've got numbers up until 2014. Something else is what the Polar Institute said in its consultation response to a question about the 23rd concession round. The Polar Institute has not entered and changed the definition of the edge of the ice. There are two different things. The size has asked us to update the management plan. To see if there's an apparent contradiction in what the Big One has decided in two cases, we think it's most appropriate to use the Big One's definition of this. But now we're going to work on a new management plan. Then we'll see if there's a need to make a new definition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e499	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e502	There is reason to wonder a little about the answers that the Minister for Climate and Environment is now giving to the Storting regarding the management plans. Firstly, it is that the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, where the technical basis is clear, should have been presented for roll-out and updating last year. The government chose not to do so, and we have been informed that it is being assessed. Then we've got a management plan that deals with the edge of the ice. There are no professional discussions. The government also writes there that it intends to update the management plans regularly. Then I assume that it is not based on the technical discussions that are the system in the management plans. In our opinion, we now see that this is a systematic reduction of the very foundation linked to a comprehensive and professionally based management of marine areas. My question is therefore: is there any long-term environmental benefits that the Minister for Climate and Environment sees in the way the government handles the management plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e513	Norway has a long tradition of using management plans precisely to achieve an overall approach and policy design for the use of our marine resources. What we have done now is to follow up what the Storting itself foreseen in June 2013, where a request for an update of the Barents Sea-Lofoten management plan during the next major period. We have now updated it with the latest available data. And then I've informed Stortinget that we're working on a new management plan by 2020, where there's a need to see if we're going to change definitions, but the overall approach that we have around the management plans is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e518	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e521	I am pleased that the Council of State makes it clear that it is important for the whole management plan to be dealt with precisely to see all the professional input and management of the areas as a whole. Therefore, questions will also arise when a choice is made to take out different parts of the management plan and to deal with them before the next management plan is updated in 2020. So, as I said before, there's a real political disagreement about where the ice is going. There was a debate about this in this Chamber during the discussion of the opening of the Barents Sea south-east, where we believe that the red-green government went away from the definition contained in the current management plan. Therefore, we wonder why the government chooses to open blocks that lie within an area that the state council itself says can come within an area that will be covered by what will be called the ice edge. Why does the government choose to open those areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e528	It is rare that one gets so much mouth to clean up the gangs of previous government and big business has created. The definition of the ice edge was not changed when the Stortinget, at the opening of the Barents Sea south-east in 2013, concluded that no petroleum activity should be started at the ice edge. At the opening of the Barents Sea south-east, the previous government and the Storting said something more, namely that this should not prevent petroleum activities throughout the Barents Sea south-east. Since the map shows that the ice edge and the north-east parts of the opening areas overlap, there could be a possible conflict between what the Storting had joined when it applied to the ice edge. It is the apparent contradiction that has created a need to take a closer look at the ice edge and that was also updated at the announcement of the northernmost blocks in the 23rd concession round. That's what we've now cleaned up using the last available data for the ice-cream.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e535	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e538	I can agree that this is gradually a rather complicated and perhaps even a little untidy process. It is also interesting to see the discussions that the cooperation parties have with each other in the main hall around it. But I think many here in the issues have been concerned about the need to see the whole and the need to discuss things in the context. So my simple question is simply: why do we have to wait until 2020 for a new treatment of the management plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e545	When drawing up management plans, there is quite a lot of work – technical advice, professional forums, new investigations. So when we've said that we're coming back in 2020, it's one of the same cycles that you've had in the past in a new management plan and when you update a management plan. We have now responded to Stortinget's request to update a management plan, and we are in the process of creating a new one. But I think we're going to spend the necessary time on this to get a good job, where it's also natural to look at what has been changed since the previous management plan, including whether it might be natural to make a new definition on the ice edge. But we'll probably need time until 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e550	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e554	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Over the last few weeks, through the topic node «I've experienced», we've read hundreds of women's stories about sexual harassment and rape. In the campaign launched by the feminist journal Fat, women tell about sexual harassment, discrimination and abuse. The evening post has also highlighted the issue of rape through the series One in a hundred. Now the Russian has just started the celebration of completed school, and we see that only six days into May have four girls reported rape that has occurred at Russian meetings. Figures from the scope study on violence and rape reported by NKVTS over a year ago showed that one in 10 women in Norway has been raped. Another study shows that nine out of ten people who have been raped do not report the crime. Eight out of ten rapes actually reported are ordered by the police. In other words, it is quite common to be raped, and it is also quite common to avoid punishment for rape. Today, the Swedish authorities have made proposals on the legalisation of infringements. We believe that this is necessary in order to ensure an equivalent offer for all citizens of the country. We believe that the availability of appropriate competent access points is essential both to ensure evidence and to ensure the proper follow-up of victims. My question is whether this is something the Council of State supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e567	I would first like to thank the representative for addressing an important and very serious issue. As the representative himself refers to, the Evening Post has now run an important series over time. We've seen in the media image in the last few days Russians reporting rape, and it's incredibly great darkness. This is an area where the government is strongly focused. We have to think completely. That's the way we do it in the justice track. I believe that having rape receptions that can contribute to both securing evidence and providing help in an emergency situation is important. Now I believe that the Stortinget must deal with the representative proposals that come in Stortinget in a proper and thorough manner. But it is important for the government to ensure that those who are raped, who report rape, receive the support and help they need. In the case of justice, it has been important for me to focus on it in the letter of assignment, and I have focused on it in conversations with both the police director and the state attorney. The latter, in its prioritisation letter, has made it clear that these are priority issues in 2015. We have implemented a number of measures that will improve the quality of investigations that have been too poor, and we have been concerned that the processing time will be shorter. At the same time, I think this also has a point of view. It is important to focus on awareness campaigns, borderline campaigns. The campaign to the Russian used this year is No is No. Kripos has its own campaign called Kernel, which is targeted at young people aged 18 to 35. It is important that society takes this challenge seriously. It's also important that we see more than just words. We're all worried, and we need to see the results of those words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e582	Wholeness and attitudes are important. In the previous government's action plan against rape, the law enforcement of offenders was one of several measures. That action plan lasted from 2012 to 2014, but unfortunately has not been followed up by any new ones. We did not have the right to initiate all the measures in the plan, nor have they been followed up. In the meantime, we have seen large-scale studies confirming rape as the serious social problem as it is. I wonder, which of the measures in the previous action plan will the government follow up, and will there be a new action plan against rape and sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e589	This is a work that takes place in many tracks, including: It has been important for the government to implement the measures that can be implemented in the short term and, of course, to plan how to do this even better in the longer term. We also have to follow-up the change in the law on rape – it was sent out at the hearing of the previous government. And we are now implementing a new and thorough follow-up to the ‘Good Childhood Endures’ action plan, which also has a side to violence and abuse against children and in close relations. I believe that we have a good package of measures, but it is also the case that we always have to look at whether we can do more, and what is most effective. Of course, we have with us the actions contained in the 2014 action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e594	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e597	Last year, last year, the UN criticised the Norwegian judiciary for dealing with rape cases. Too many are laid down, and the punishment is too mild. Very often it takes too long for the police to deal with the matter, and the investigation is too deplorable. Police officers in the section on sexual crimes in Oslo today have 11 positions in minus, but no money to declare them. A legal assessment after a group rape reads: "The court does not sentence the woman morally, but finds that in an intoxicated state she is not a stranger in order to have sex with men she does not know so well. This has a proven importance in relation to understanding her conduct in relation to the defendants.’ Attitudes such as this help to make many victims experience the meeting of the judicial system as burdensome and problematic, and do not help to improve attitudes towards violence in society. What will the Minister of Justice do with the obvious challenges we face in the work of police and judicial systems in the area of rape cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e611	Firstly, I agree that this can also be about attitudes. For this reason, it is important that you now see, for example: work on police reform in the way one will work on these issues in the future, where one can ensure more robust environments, more focus on professionalism in the investigation. The measures that have already been implemented – as I mentioned in my first response – are linked to the fact that we are now demanding more of these investigations. It's been a priority on the part of the National Attorney, it's been a priority on our part to the Directorate of Police. In addition, it may also have to do with capacity and competence. Therefore, competence measures are being implemented to ensure that those working on these matters have the competence necessary to do so. It is also important to ensure that we get good competence recruited. This means that one has to have a leading focus on the fact that these are really important issues, socially extremely important issues. It is essential that we have a victim care service that also contributes to what the police can do through investigation and follow-up, and that is why we also go through the victim care and follow-up of it – to say the little thing I managed in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e616	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e619	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has a focus on this and that he has an involvement in this area. However, it is important to get from word to action, especially in this important matter. We know that during this year there will be between 8 000 and 16,000 rapes or attempted rapes in Norway. The Minister of Justice has now said something about what measures the Minister of Justice thinks should be followed up. At the same time, Bergstø says that there are vacancies in the police related to this, and we know that this government has committed itself to an efficiency cut in all sectors, which may have had an impact on the investigation capacity. But I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice on what concrete measures have been taken by the Minister of Justice to improve the quality of research. What's in that word?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e626	In addition to what I have said in my previous answers, I would like to add a few things. One is that after the government change, 700 new police posts have been allocated, 50 new police posts – the last is important to ensure the quality of the investigation and follow-up to the investigation. In addition, money has been allocated to 12 new state law offices, which are important for the professional follow-up of police lawyers’ duties. Then I want to say that one of the things I've done, which I can do directly to those who are responsible, is that at an appeal board meeting where all the prosecutors were present, all the police officers and others, I used this as an example of how I mean a should work, what one must do to ensure that a gets better quality and follow-up of these important matters. So, in addition to the concrete things I've been dealing with in my previous answers, I myself have focused directly on this issue and the importance of a promise of both quality and results to the prosecutors and police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e633	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e637	Thank you for a good and important question and a good answer from the Minister of Justice. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is drawing up the attitude-creating work, delimitation. There's a lot of responsibility for young men, and as a society, we need to work with attitudes. And you can do a lot of things with that. But then I would also like to stress what the Minister of Justice says when it comes to investigation. Much of the reason that there are job vacancies is that people do not want to apply for those jobs. There we have a responsibility to make this attractive. But it may also say that there is a lack of status – that is how one looks at it – or that it is too demanding for those who work there. So it's an important work into the police reform. But I also want to challenge the Minister of Justice when it comes to questioning. We have looked through notices recently that the victims of rape are almost recommended not to report. It's dramatic. We have a good system of good conduct for questioning in the form of children's housing. The Minister of Justice will look at other ways of conducting the hearings, such as: The victims do not meet in court and witness?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e650	It is a challenge if someone gets the impression that someone is recommended not to report this type of serious assault. It is absolutely vital that we can do a job in this area that people actually report. Then it is also essential that they feel that they are well received, with the competence of the police, that the hearing takes place in such a way that they feel well cared for. It may well be that it is a potential for improvement to consider how these interrogations are taken. But at the same time, there are a lot of people who are professional and good in that hearing situation, so I'm not sure if that's what leads to people not reporting. I think there are a number of other reasons, which also go into attitudes, which also go into guilt, which also go into other things that it is important that we, as societies, talk openly about, as we are clear that there is actually only one who is responsible for a rape, and it is the one who is the one who rapes – there is no one else. And this too, that you know that you're being well cared for. We are now working with, as I mentioned earlier, a review of victim care – that you will receive a follow-up after you have been to the police. A support around that work, I think it's important to follow up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e655	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e658	Dark figures on the number of sexual assault reports are large. The theme is associated with tabs, and many people choose not to share their stories. There are also stories that many people have to live with for the rest of their lives. It is not an easy matter to put it behind them. That is why it is important that we discuss how to tackle it. I fully agree with the Council of State that we must now take action. A number of ideas have been promoted about what can be addressed in relation to the offenders, and increased police competence is linked to it, but I also think it is important to ensure that not only the police, but also the health services and the psychiatrists have an opportunity to follow up those who have been victims in such a case. You may also need to look at the questioning situation, so that those who report feel safe that they are being properly cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e665	I agree with all the recordings that come from the representative. These are things that we are now looking at, not least in connection with the follow-up work on victims. Very often we hear about situations in which those who get through all the taboos and all the other difficult mental challenges as well, and then come to the notification situation, in a way feel that they remain entirely alone afterwards. It is a completely impossible situation and a burden for the person who is subject to such an infringement, which is completely unreasonable. That is why I am in favour of thinking widely about the follow-up after the notification. That's why we're going through both the RCCs and other ways of organising victim follow-up. In Trondheim, among other things, they have a project in which they cooperate closely with the municipality to ensure the follow-up of people who are exposed to violence in close relationships, but also raped, that they should receive support and assistance upwards – that they have a point of contact with the healthcare system to ensure that they receive the necessary support throughout this course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e670	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e673	I have a question for the Minister for Climate and Environment. In an attempt to defend a climate minister in hard weather, the Prime Minister said to the evening post last October: ‘It’s tougher to stand in front of the climate in a government where no one is so concerned about it.’ In the same newspaper last week we could read that Minister of Finance Siv Jensen announced that she was the one who was “some”. She admitted to be what we call a climate skeptic. Tord Lien was challenged on this in the previous Question Time, and I believe that the Council of State Sundtoft must also be challenged today. I understand that the role of the Council of State is challenging, and that it is complicated to get the big grips on climate when not everyone in the government is so concerned about it, and actually does not think that climate change is a problem. My question in the light of what has emerged about the climate position of the Minister of Finance is: Does the Council of State agree that the Ministry of Finance is an important department of climate change? Or, to put it another way, will the Council of State agree that it may be complicated and difficult to implement policies against which the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance are opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e685	I fully agree that the Ministry of Finance is an important department when dealing with climate issues, just as my own department is important. What the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have in common is that we both have to work across sectors. The government has said that for this government it is important that the climate should shape our work, that the climate should be emphasised when we look at fiscal policy. That is why we have put down a green tax commission, which is now working, and that is why we are carrying out a comprehensive review of the vehicle charges. So much of what we do in climate policy, it's important that the Ministry of Finance, along with a lot of other departments, is well involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e690	I note that the Council of State does not find it problematic that the Minister of Finance does not believe in climate change, but it now has to do with itself. I understand that she does not want to go under attack at her own state council here in Stortinget. But I think the climate minister must understand that many of us are concerned when the finance minister stands up as climate skeptics, which has also received great attention in the international media. Now in 2015 we have an important year of international climate negotiations, and then I wonder: How does the Minister for Climate Change think that the views of the Minister for Finance will affect Norway’s credibility in the climate negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e695	The size would have been cause for concern if the government did not raise climate issues. In the big news we came to Stortinget with our 2030 targets, it is quite specific that we base our policy on the UN Climate Panel. We have increased the ambitions for Norwegian climate policy in terms of the targets we have set for 2030. The representative of Hansen is well aware of Norway’s important role in international climate work. We take that role very seriously. We are now invited in many different forums until Paris, we set up wherever we can, and take care of the important bridge builder role Norway has. So if there's any questions about this, I'm going to be absolutely clear on what this government stands for in terms of our climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e700	It opens for one follow-up question – from Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e704	I was among the many, which I think include the climate minister, who thought it was embarrassing that international newspapers all over the world last week wrote that no. 2 in the Norwegian Government replied to an unreserved yes when she was asked if she was in doubt about climate change. But more than embarrassing, it's awfully serious that we have a government party that still doesn't take in knowledge. I think everyone understands that it's hard to mobilize political will to solve a problem that you don't think exists. This isn't about faith, it's about science. I think a health minister had never accepted that, for example. The minister of knowledge had raised doubts as to whether medicine had an effect. This is a terribly dangerous game of knowledge. I want to give the climate minister one more chance: can she take an unreserved distance from what the Minister of Finance said last week? It's from my point of view a yes or no question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e713	The most important thing for this Minister for Climate and Environment and the most important thing for the government is that we base science on our policies. That is why it is so clear in the big message about our 2030 targets that we are based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. What I also said in several interviews last week when I got questions about this is that the most important thing is what this government is delivering in the climate field: that we now have increased ambitions, that we are doing more specifically to close the gap by 2020, that we have set new targets by 2030, and that we are following up our international work. There is no doubt whatsoever about what this government stands for. It is the most important thing for the Minister for Climate and Environment, and it should also be the most important thing for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e718	We move on to the last main question, which is from Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e721	Then I choose to stand still, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e726	There are no more follow-up questions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e729	Sorry to disappoint the Minister for Climate and Environment, but the question goes to the Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e734	Oh, boy!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e739	According to both police and experience from Sweden, Finnmark, etc., the proposal now adopted to open up increased snowmobile services in Norwegian nature. also leads to a significant increase in the illegal driving. There are now many more speed scooters sold, designed for driving in steep terrain and deep snow. The majority's comments in the position of the Energy and Environment Committee assume without further delay that the police and the SNO will address this problem of increased inspection and control. Can the Minister of Justice here and now confirm that the Norwegian police will have the resources to cover Norwegian forests and mountains in search of illegal snowmobile drivers, so that no problems will arise as a result of opening for increased snowmobile driving in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e746	The police are a framework-driven business. This means that the police will carry out the tasks they are assigned to them within the framework that the police will at all times have. These frameworks are laid down by the Storting in the annual budgetary procedures. It is quite clear that there are some police districts that will be challenged more than other police districts when snowmobile driving becomes more frequent, and it is a police task in line with all other police tasks to ensure that the activities of the individual police districts are properly managed and within the framework established by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e751	Does the government have any idea of what resources it will require when the amount of snowmobile rides increases in a majority of Norway's over 400 municipalities? And are there any budget figures for what this will result from extra strain within the police framework budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e756	This type of calculation has not been made concretely, and it is also very difficult to make concrete, because there are already several police districts that have the capacity to carry out scooter checks and investigate conditions around illegal snowmobile driving. The extent will probably increase of the number of snowmobiles, of course, when one is given the opportunity to drive legally, but it will still be the task of the police within the limits assigned to them, to give priority to the work they consider to be the most important. It is then obvious that the police will follow the framework adopted by the Stortinge, including in this area. I assume that the police districts are doing what is necessary to ensure that one has as good control as possible within the limits that are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e767	Then the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e779	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directly responsible. Question 6, from the representative Ketil Kjenseth to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question 13, from the representative Iselin Nybø to the Minister of Knowledge, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e794	‘The Left and the Prime Minister agree on the need for a green shift. We have 15 years to contribute to the 2030 targets. This means that green investment is urgently needed to contribute to effective climate change. What investment does the Prime Minister consider to be the most important priority in the coming years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e801	Let me first remind you of the investments we're already making. The representative Skei Grande and I have worked a long time to strengthen the climate technology fund. Now we have a majority to do that. This will involve increased investment in business. We invest a lot in rail and public transport. We have secured Statkraft equity for investments in renewable energy. The conversion of the taxation of small and wind power stimulates investment in Norway and new power cables to Europe will connect the green battery. The government has increased the requirements for the environmental mandate of the State pension fund abroad, and Norfund has been given increased appropriations for investment in renewable energy. This is the initiative that has taken place since the government change and will have a good impact. Real speed on the green shift we get when business is seriously turning investment in the green direction. There's a lot going on here, and I think we've just seen the beginning. I spend a lot of time visiting companies that are working on this, to understand the challenges they face. I also stress as often as I can, that the transition that Norway is now facing must be climate friendly, and I hope that it also helps to raise awareness and interest in climate-friendly solutions. We cannot predict which industries or technologies will be the winners of the future. For climate-friendly technologies to be developed and put into service, they must pay off. When emissions are costing and the market works, it will trigger creativity in private enterprises, and households will change their consumption pattern. The government has therefore started working on an overall strategy for green competitiveness, and we are also receiving the report from the Green Tax Commission. The future of Norwegian work and business must be green, smart and innovative. Therefore, among the investments we can make is also investing in people and knowledge. The government has started the teacher's pledge in school, we've set out clear goals for research and higher education, we're going to research more, and we have clear priorities in terms of climate and environment, value creation and quality. If I were to bring forward one major investment to speed up the green shift, it may not be the investments that many people think we should pick – nutrition or other – but the overall investment we make in people and knowledge. When we do that together with the framework conditions we set for other things, and the price of emissions and pollution, it helps to get to the shift that gives a greener and smarter future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e814	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a very good answer, and with many good lists, which she has probably also been inspired to make. I think it's particularly exciting what she says about creating a strategy for green competitiveness, because what we invest in now takes a long time before we can harvest. If we're going to have an active industrial policy, an active industrial policy, it's not just about selecting industries, choosing those that go well, but about making sure that Norwegian business invests in the green sectors, so that we can reap from it about the 15 years that we're really in to achieve the transitions we're going to have. So my follow-up question to the Prime Minister is whether one is going to create a strategy for investment also in that competitiveness strategy – that we make sure that Norwegian business has an active investment against the green industries, so that we can develop the business and the industry that we know we're going to live on in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e821	We have chosen to start the discussion on the entire green competitiveness, and I say we should ask the difficult and knowledgeable questions – namely, what major forces are moving at the moment, what major changes we have, what conditions Norway has in it, and what disadvantages we have in it. Whether we end up saying that our vulnerability is greatest in investment, or whether it is greatest in knowledge and competence or in other areas, I think it's a little early to conclude with. But I believe that as a government – and with both the cooperation agreement and the Sundvolden platform – we have had competitiveness as an important theme all along, and therefore we have done a lot already. If we are to invest in the green industries, it is also worth investing in general in Norway. It is not possible to believe that it is only worthwhile to invest in green – it is worth investing in general. That means that what we do on taxes, what we do on infrastructure to bring down costs, that we make the infrastructure greener, is among the things that are important also to gain that competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e828	I think this is going to be an exciting process in the future, to which we have a lot of input. But – and this is my last question, a question that the Prime Minister may not answer – will we see traces of this when the revised national budget comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e833	We're coming up with a revised national budget next week, and I don't think we're going to break it down, but I just want to say that it's well adapted to the economic situation, which it's going to help solve. But it's a revision of a budget that I mean initially also contributes to this green shift, because we have large investments, not least in rail and collective. We have a strong commitment to knowledge and competence. In particular, we provide a number of schemes to enable companies to implement new solutions – to fill up climate technologies, to ensure that we do so on the environmental technology system, FORNY, BIA. After all, all these arrangements have been filled in significantly in the current year's budget. Then I can't promise that we will bring many new measures into the revised national budget. We are concerned that we should have good, responsible development, but the responses to the revision must wait until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e844	‘The Government has joined the two-degree target. It's a clear strategy from the government to stimulate a green shift. The Prime Minister said that the business and work of the future should be green, smart and innovative. To what extent does the Council of State believe that the two-degree objective should also govern the development of Norwegian economic policies and financial positions, and how will such a strategy actively contribute to green growth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e851	The government is committed to facilitating economic growth and well-being in the future. It also governs climate policy. The two-degree target has led the international climate negotiations. The goal is also leading Norwegian climate policy. In order to achieve a productive and sustainable economy, environmental considerations need to be integrated into policy-making. This is often referred to as green growth. In order to contribute to higher future value creation, more attention needs to be paid to how we can increase resource use and limit environmental pressures. Fees and allowances set a price for emissions. It helps to change production and consumption patterns, while making effective use of our total resources. The charging system or allowances provide incentives for emission reductions to be implemented at the lowest cost to society. That is good economic policy, and that is good climate policy. The climate challenge is international. Norway cannot reach the two-degree target alone. Even to convert ourselves into a greener economy, we depend on the rest of the world being involved in the green shift, so that the technology and markets that Norway relies on are developed. The aim of the State pension fund is to achieve the highest possible return on moderate risk. State pension funds are a poor instrument of climate and environmental policy. The expert group, which in December advised on SPU’s use of instruments and investments in coal and petroleum companies, highlighted ownership as the main instrument for addressing climate issues in the management of the SPU. The Communication provides for a further strengthening of the exercise of ownership. Today is over 80 pst. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions the price in the form of fees and allowances. The UN highlights our ambitious climate policy in its last review of Norway's policy in this area. According to the United Nations, Norway’s comprehensive and high climate charges are unique in the world. At the same time, we must not run so far ahead of everyone else in this area that we undermine Norwegian jobs and value creation. Inclusion in the EU climate obligation will combine an ambitious climate target with a framework that provides predictability for Norwegian industry. The government makes it possible for business and work to make green, smart and innovative choices. We are strengthening climate reconciliation, and we are starting work on an overall strategy for green competitiveness. By the end of the year, we will have the Green Tax Commission report. It will, of course, be an important input in the further development of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e868	I thank the Minister for the answer. I'm glad that she called SPU, the most important financial instrument we have to influence a green shift globally. During the SPU hearing the previous day, Director Slyngstad made it clear that environmental and climate challenges will pose a financial risk. In addition to the halls, the workshop fund has at its disposal to reduce such risks, the climate expectations document and letters directly to the individual company, e.g. as to the energy company, where SPU by letter request the timeline for phase-out of coal in production. The funds and administrators will serve as a service and will need additional tools. The extraction criterion did the right way, which gives companies the opportunity and time to adapt, will undoubtedly be better then, and meet the need for the fund to reduce climate-related risks more effectively. So I hope the minister is agreed at least that the last one is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e873	The consultation of the Financial Committee was very clearly linked to the nature of the financial risk in the various positions that this large fund has invested in globally. But it's the way that the overall objective of the fund is fixed. This is our common pension money, which is managed in a way where the ambition is that we should get a return to happiness and enjoy for the Norwegian people for many generations to come. But in the issue of the extraction criterion, the government has now proposed a new behavioral extraction criterion, which we believe is a very good response to some of the challenges we are facing. It is a good tool for NBIN to make some ownership decisions and influence the companies. Together with the other instruments we are now using through climate expectations documents and letters to companies, etc., this is a good framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e878	Thank you again to the minister. While the government is reluctant to suggest much that is good in the big message, one should argue well to overestimate the sign that the exchange of letters versus the real threat of losing one of the world’s most attractive investors as owners is the most effective. So, of course, I have an understanding and a sense of counter-argument that extraction criteria can make it difficult to find attractive companies. However, it is easy to counterbalance by expanding the 1 pst. frame fund today to deviate from the reference index to more than 1.25 pst. as the government proposes. The need for an own environmental mandate will also not be as large and precarious if an expanded extraction criterion is applied. So does not the minister also see that such a regime can be even more effective than what the Storting has put at the disposal of the fund today, precisely to reduce financial risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e883	There were a lot of questions in the last question, and I think I'm going to spend my time highlighting what's most important, what we haven't done yet. The government has now launched an investigation into the possibility of opening up the unlisted market. We must remember that the quoted market for environmental investment is relatively limited. There is a large opportunity room in the unlisted market, and therefore it is important that we investigate it, look at possible boundaries, devices of it. It may provide for a significantly greater investment potential, especially at a time when the uncertainty around the fund increases, not least in relation to low interest rates, which affects the large degree of debt securities in which we are invested. So here's the exciting investigation work ahead of us. The most important thing is that we stick to the overall objectives, which ensure that we have a good return on our common pension funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e892	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e895	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘It is an important task of housing policy to facilitate the construction of several rental dwellings under the direction of serious professional lessors, which can provide a good follow-up to the housing environment. One of the reasons why few investments are made in major rental projects in Norway is that there is no balancing depreciation for this, as is done for other commercial property. Would the government consider tax equalising professional residential rentals with commercial real estate in order to better facilitate rental projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e904	Depreciation shall initially reflect costs in the form of impairment of operating resources. The general rule in the Tax Act is that dwellings included in taxable income cannot be depreciated. The background to the rule is that the deterioration in the value of dwellings is considered to be small in the case of proper maintenance. The cost of maintaining a dwelling in business is deductible on its part when the income from the building is taxable. Depreciation rates should correspond to the economic impairment of the asset and it is important for proper profits to be taxed. Depreciation higher than economic impairment contributes to distorting investment against less profitable projects and negatively affects the overall growth capacity and competitiveness of the economy. In the Government Declaration, we have announced a review and improvement of the tax depreciation rules to make Norwegian business more competitive. The government therefore asked the sample that assessed the corporate tax to review the depreciation rules in order to ensure better consistency between the depreciation rules and economic impairment. The sample considered that several depreciation rates in the Norwegian balancing system are too high compared to economic impairment and should therefore be reduced. The question of depreciation for dwellings and other parts of the depreciation system will be considered in the forthcoming notification on the follow-up to the Tax Committee. The starting point for the review should be that the tax depreciation should reflect the economic impairment. In order to meet housing policy objectives, there are also a wide range of other instruments that can be even more appropriate. Making housing easier to enter and ease requirements are examples of such instruments. The government will follow up on further measures in the housing policy strategy we have announced before the summer. The aim is to facilitate and facilitate the construction of new dwellings through actions from different departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e915	I thank you for an interesting answer. In various meetings I've had with stakeholders like the Leieboerföreningen, Norske Boligbyggelag, NBBL, Selvaag, who are the builders of course, and others, it's pointed out that there are difficulties in getting investment in building rentals. In its national strategy for housing-social work, the government says that recent research has shown that families with children move a lot around the private rental market and the reason for frequent relocations seems to be that housing is of poor quality and that rental conditions are unpredictable. What I would like to ask the Minister of Finance is whether she sees the need to stimulate more serious rental housing projects that can ensure a better living environment and better living conditions for those who need rental housing in Norway, and whether we need better tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e924	There are many challenges in today's housing market in terms of both rent and ownership. There is a price trend that is challenging not least for those who want to enter the housing market on the buyer side, and there is still a need to do more to facilitate the rental market. This is precisely why the government has announced an own housing policy strategy before the summer, where one can go through the breadth of both challenges and actions, instruments, which can help correct the imbalances that we are now seeing, but this is complex and complicated. So I think we should be careful to say that the entire private rental market has challenging sides. It's very good, and there's a lot of people doing this in a proper and proper way, but there's a need for improvement, and the government will facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e931	Now I didn't claim it, when I referred to the government's own social housing strategy. What I read was from NOVA researchers who were also there. What I am looking for is what the Council of State had in mind in terms of impairment, and referred to the fact that the impairment is considered small in housing projects versus, for example, housing projects. industrial projects. In the Hearing Opinion of the Scheel Committee of the NBBL, among others: NBBL states that they believe that there is a manifest distortion of investments in commercial property, offices, warehouses, hotels, etc., versus the type of business that is leased out because of depreciation rules in commercial real estate but not in rental properties. The special impairment, the extension of value that should be different there, is met by those who operate in that field, so I'd like to ask the Council of State to go into this when you're going to work with the Scheel Committee next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e940	As I said in my first answer, we're just doing it. We have announced a broad review of the tax depreciation rules, and that's exactly why we asked the Scheel Committee to look at it more explicitly. So we reinforced what was not from the previous government just because this is a problem that it's worth looking through, and we will come back to that, as I said, when we present the big message about the follow-up to the Tax Committee. So, of course, it's interesting to look at the different hearings that come in this area, but it's wide, it's complex, and it's extremely complicated questions. It's mainly about how to design the future tax system to strengthen the competitiveness of Norway, but in parallel with that, the government is working with its housing policy strategy, and it's about meeting the challenges of the imbalances we now have in the housing market, which are important for us to be able to maintain a good balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e947	We move on to the next question, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner. State Council Sanner is 50 years today – we congratulate you on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e956	It's an honor to give a gift to the Council of State on the big day. The question is: ‘More shopping centres create more private cars and consumption, across Storting’s objectives in climate and transport policy. Nevertheless, new, large shopping centres are established in many places in Norway, and the government has been informed to raise fewer objections. In addition, the government is a member of Sunday open shops, which will create major challenges for many small shops. Will the government limit the development of large purchasing centres, and what is the Government’s plan for good urban and urban development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e965	Let me first thank you for nice words. I would also like to thank the representative Hansson for the question. We are both concerned that our cities and towns should be attractive, competitive and sustainable. I believe this is essentially a local political responsibility and trust that municipalities, private actors and citizens will jointly choose the best solutions. State instruments shall support and reinforce the positive development of cities. The government's urban and urban policies include: anchored in the State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning adopted in September 2014. The guidelines provide a good basis for sustainable urban development. Urban environment agreements and urban development agreements will also facilitate the increased development of public transport and the tightness around the collective connecting point. The national policy provision for purchasing centres, adopted in July 2008, remains in force. My department is concluding a broad evaluation of this purchasing centre provision. It has, among other things, evidence that the total volume of transport is less affected by the location of the trade. This is due, inter alia, to: that there is relatively equal travel distance to the centre and external areas of action from where people live, respectively. Distances are relatively short, and trade is usually linked to other travels. The evaluation has also shown us that the number of centres of purchase has been quite stable in Norway since 2006 — approx. Four hundred. However, there are extensions and renewals of the existing purchasing centres. The large growth of trade outside cities takes place through the establishment of new concepts that are often referred to as big-box or outlet. Finally, it must also be mentioned from this evaluation, where both municipalities, traders, county councils and county councillors have been asked that there is a strong desire for a national policy in the future as well. However, it must not only be aimed at trade but be holistic and capture the location of both trade, service, housing and workplaces. The government wants faster planning processes, including: by means of fewer objections. At the same time, national urban and urban policies must be followed up. I believe that this is achieved by being clear in the dissemination of national policies to municipalities, county councils and private initiators early in the process. I have asked the statesmen to pay attention to this. In the case of Sunday-open shops, the question has now been sent to a hearing with a deadline of 30 June. This consultation will certainly shed light on the different perspectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e984	I thank you for the answer, and I am happy to confirm that the guidelines for purchasing centres are maintained. I recently took part in a lunch debate at Worke on Sunday open shops, and a study showed that the cost of keeping shops on Sunday open in Norway would be estimated at 9 billion. kr, and that these costs will have to be recovered through a competitive advantage which will have the direct effect that small shops in urban centres and centres will lose competition with purchasing centres. This was strongly confirmed by a representative from the Danish trading community who has experience in this regard. The question then is: what will the Council of State actually do to prevent the effect of such a concrete proposal as Sunday-open shops from being shop-dead in cities and agglomerations, apart from the malls?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e991	As I pointed out, the proposal is now being consulted, and there are various proposals that will then be highlighted, including a proposal for which the Left has been the spokesman. I am absolutely sure that Works and others who also have an interest in this issue will make both the consequences and the possibilities available if you choose to open up more Sunday trade. What I want to stress is that the responsibility for creating attractive urban centres means that I have to be in the cities. When I travel around and visit city politicians from different parties, talking to the administration in different cities, I feel that there is a lot of interest and expertise in how they can develop their cities and their urban centers. Then I believe that the guidelines and work we do must build up under the positive developments that we see, so that we can be strengthened in an environmentally sound direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e998	I heard so carefully after I forgot my follow-up question. So we have a regulation on national policy provision for purchasing centres, which confirms that purchasing centres and major trading establishments should only be established according to approved regional plans. Does not the Council of State have any other concrete means to follow up on this than to entrust responsibility to the local and regional levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1005	The answer to that question is – or yes. I have put in place the most powerful means of action, namely the state planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning, as we set out in September 2014. Those guidelines may be the most important means of creating more environmentally sound development in our big cities. It was an instrument of guidance, which our government put in place, and which has received broad recognition from many different environments, including environmental organisations. It's the most important means of building up the positive development, where we also see that cities themselves take responsibility. Then I want to refer to the evaluation we are now making of the national policy guidelines. This must be knowledge-based, and we are now carrying out an evaluation. That's where the different actors point out that you can't just look at commerce, you have to look at the whole thing – and that's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1016	‘The left and the government agree that we need a green shift, and there is agreement on an ambitious climate policy at Stortinget. We have 15 years to achieve this goal in 2030. All sectors must contribute to achieving the objective, and some must contribute more than others. How much of the emission reduction will the government provide for the transport sector to take, and what will be the most effective measures?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1023	I am pleased with the constructive and active approach that the Left takes on this issue. Here we have a lot in common by wanting to be solution-oriented and get good results. The government has recently submitted a climate announcement that Stortinget has been behind. As indicated in the Communication, Norway will engage in dialogue with the EU to enter into a joint agreement on the implementation of climate commitments with the EU and a climate target of at least 40 pst. in 2030 compared to 1990 levels. The EU has set a target of at least 40 pst. reduction in EU own greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990. The emission target shall be implemented at 43 pst. reduction in the quota sector and 30 pst. reduction in the non-quota sector compared to the 2005 level. Norway will also contribute to emission reductions in the non-quota sector by setting a national emission target for the non-quota sector in line with comparable EU countries. The final objective will be the subject of negotiations with the EU, and it is therefore too early to say whether there will be a specific objective for the transport sector. Although there is no specific emissions target for the transport sector, a number of instruments and measures have already been put in place, including: in the 2015 State Budget, together with the Left and Christian People's Party. The government is strongly committed to the railways. Defective infrastructure is one of the main challenges for the railways, and in 2015 we will reduce the maintenance run on the railways for the first time in a long time. There's a aftermath that doubled under the previous government. This could contribute to increased operational stability and contribute to the movement of goods from road to rail. For the first time since 2008, we now see container transport on trains increasing. This is gratifying, but we must continue to work to make rail freight more competitive. We will therefore continue this effort and improve the provision of trains through increased capacity on several routes as well as multiple rush times in intercity traffic. This will help more people use trains because it becomes more attractive than driving a car. In urban areas, there are good opportunities to transfer people from a car to a collective, bicycle and gangster without jeopardising mobility. In order to facilitate collective, cycling and walking, land and transport policy must be viewed in a coherent way. Urban environment agreements – and yesterday we sent out a press release that we are now starting negotiations with Oslo and Akershus – will play an important role in facilitating attractive alternatives to the private car, precisely by ensuring closer links between land and transport policies. In the urban environment agreements, the State may undertake to contribute 50 pst. investments in the largest collective projects in the largest cities. In return, cities must build closer around the collective nodes. In addition, we have made several changes to car charges, which means that electric cars are maintained with advantages and charging and hybrid cars appear to be more favourable. We have started work on getting more environmentally friendly solutions to holiday offers. Working towards the national transport plan to be submitted in 2016-2017 will be a major step in the way we work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1044	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good response and not least for good cooperation, and we look forward to helping together to ensure that emissions in the transport sector continue to decline, as our budgets have arranged. To achieve the goal, however, in 40 pst. reductions in emissions by 2030 must start investments now. I wonder: What investments does the Minister of Transport think are the most important to achieve the 40 pst target? reduction by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1051	I think there are a lot of investments that you have to make at once. It's about facilitating that a particular person around the big population centers finds it more attractive to travel collectively. It's about expanding railway infrastructure. It's also about making it easier for a bus to get there, so a reduced travel time and increased comfort. Then we have to make sure that it is also invested in material, so that we get increased frequency. Frequency and travel time are probably some of the success criteria if you're going to make people want to choose away the car and choose collectively instead. We see that in many places. It also requires a long-distance rail to be a good alternative. One must ensure that when choosing a car or an aeroplane it has zero emission technology in itself. Especially on the road side, we see that Norway is a leading country. Then it is about ensuring that the transport needs of business are more achieved through – as I said – collective solutions, through the transport of goods by sea and by rail. Then you have to invest in that kind of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1058	I am very pleased that the Minister of Transport believes in man-made climate change. But even if he wasn't going to believe it, it's probably past any reasonable doubt, so say 100 pst. that local contamination is a nuisance to humans and can cause major asthma problems and can also lead to other types of suffering. In order to reduce emissions and reduce them, there has to be an interaction between the country and the largest cities on both greenhouse gas emissions and local emissions. I then wonder: What measures does the Minister for Transport think it is appropriate to cooperate on? And how does the Council of State intend to optimise this interaction, so that we can reduce both greenhouse gas emissions and local emissions regardless of whether we believe that climate change is man-made or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1063	Let me first address the debate on climate change: Yes, climate change is happening, it has always happened, and it will always happen. And then the discussion will be how much human activity is driving it. No matter if it's 10 or 90 pst, we know that that might be what makes a difference. That's why we're going to help reduce emissions. That is what the Progress Party believes, and that is what the government believes, and that is what the majority of the population thinks. So it's obvious that there's a lot to pick up on reducing local emissions. Especially NOx and particulate emissions and the kind of thing I think would be really the most important argument to bet on electric cars. As long as the electricity supply in Europe comes with a high level of coal, it will always be CO2 emissions also based on electricity, but emissions are shifted away from where people live, to areas where emissions can be managed and cleaned more easily. Therefore, I see no contradiction between being environmentally friendly and climate friendly and being energy-efficient. And then we must jointly ensure that the means of transport used have low-emission and zero-emission technologies regardless of whether they are running on rails or on rubber wheels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1082	This question, from the representative Ketil Kjenseth to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1085	‘The global climate challenges are great, and many of the world’s poorest are those that are hardest hit by climate change. The OECD has recommended the development of a strategy for Norwegian development policy in the future. The whole world depends on a green shift, and economic growth must be green growth. Does the government intend to develop such a strategy, where both climate and poverty reduction are the framework for action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1092	Climate change and poverty reduction are two key challenges facing the world in the years to come. If we are to be able to overcome both, we need to find solutions that make it possible to combine economic growth with emission reductions. That work supports the government on an international level. In the 2013 evaluation of Norwegian development policy, Norway was praised for pursuing a long-term, active and developmental policy that contributes to global development issues, such as climate and environment, while having a clear focus on poverty reduction. The most important instrument in the fight against poverty in the countries is economic growth. Private sector investment by the government is a strategic turnaround in the focus of development policy. The forthcoming Enterprise Development Notice will provide the form and content of that initiative. In the government’s climate and forest strategy, involvement of the private sector has become more important. We now see a number of positive signals, not least in terms of sustainable palm oil production. This is an example of how we are strategically working to reduce poverty through sustainable growth. The government explained in more detail the arrangements for Norway’s international climate action in the last year’s revised national budget. This year's budget has received an even clearer climate profile, including: through the commitment to climate finance of the aid budget. Norfund’s commitment to renewable energy has been strengthened. State power will be added to 10 billion. equity in the coming years, which means that they will have greater opportunities to invest in renewable energy internationally. We have now also signed the agreement on contributions of SEK 1.6 billion. kr to the Green Climate Fund. And last, but not least, we're going to spend at least 3 billion dollars. kr annually on the government's climate and forest activity up to 2020. Climate and forest action provides both emission reduction and poverty reduction. The strategic arrangement of work on poverty reduction and economic growth within the global climate and environmental framework is thus well in place. The sustainability objectives to be adopted at the UN Summit in September will also contribute to the direction and framework of Norwegian development policy by 2030. The post-2015 sustainability agenda shall contribute to strengthening the links between environmental, social and economic development, as well as human rights and good governance. In this context, the government will strengthen efforts to integrate climate into other priority areas of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1103	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. I probably didn't hear that we're going to develop a strategy for Norwegian development policy, but there's a lot of money in the pot, and it's long-term work. I'm glad to hear that. To go to a very current country, Nepal: It is not exactly a climate crisis they are experiencing right now — with the great earthquake — but this is a country with which Norway has worked for a long time, and for the last five years contributed 1.5 billion. kr for development work, and clean energy is one of the five areas of activity. Now there is a need for a major reconstruction, but Norway has been involved in a bet on, among other things. biogas plants, and Statkraft contributes to the development of micro-power plants, and it is by Norwegian competence. But I am also curious whether the Council of State sees any possibility of taking back some lessons, from Nepal to Norway – I know that the Council of State has been visiting IVAR IKS and has seen the biogas plant in use there. Does she see any transfer value back to Norwegian society — and challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1110	There's a difference between developing a new strategy, which I tried to say in my answer, or using strategically the means that we have at our disposal for this, and now giving State power the injection of new equity, also in order to be able to use in other countries. And there are always opportunities to learn from others. That is what is the global challenge in climate, what we can do on renewable energy through our competence, our capital, the exercise of it in those countries – but also in order to be able to regain competence at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1115	An important contribution to economic growth is industrial investment, and from the Norwegian side we want to increase investment in poor countries and in middle-income countries. Now we've been to Nepal, and the Council of State has mentioned some strategic investments. Does the Council of State see any new areas where a person is thinking of going into financial investment to contribute to both climate change reduction and poverty reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1120	The main focus of Norwegian action — in addition to climate negotiations itself — is on forest conservation, access to clean energy, phase-out of fossil subsidies, short-lived climate polluters, clean coke ovens and climate adaptation, in the latter area in particular through the focus on food and nutrition security. It goes on weather and climate services, it goes on agricultural research, it goes on preventing natural disasters and preserving natural diversity, and now we've also given 1.6 billion. kr to the Green Climate Fund, it is important that we work along those themes, with the countries with which we work, where we also see that the countries themselves are interested in using new competences, and where we can also help with Norwegian competence and not least with Norwegian capital. This challenge is global.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1129	I am delighted to ask the following questions: ‘The government’s Green Competitiveness Strategy states that the industries of the future are green, smart and innovative. At the same time, the government allows mining waste in Fördefjorden. Fördefjorden is one of the cleanest fjords in the West, and is the habitat of many species on the Norwegian red list of endangered species. Future industries such as fishing, tourism and farming have all been critical of the project. Why does the Council of State think it is green, smart and innovative to permit mining in Fördefjorden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1138	Let me first say that there is a broad political consensus to facilitate a profitable and high-growth mineral industry in Norway. As you know, the Stortinget adopted a new comprehensive mineral law in 2009, and the red-green government presented its own mineral strategy in 2013. Further development of the mineral industry is part of this government’s efforts to increase the number of bones in Norway and to create the jobs to finance the welfare of the future. Both Naustdal and Askvoll municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane have wanted to exploit the mineral deposits in Engebøfjellet and adopted a regulatory plan for their activities in 2011. The case of mining in Engebøjellet has since undergone thorough investigations in order to acquire further knowledge, in particular about the effects of establishing a maritime landfill in Fördefjorden. Important effects of the planned maritime landfill were highlighted by the additional investigations carried out at the request of the then Ministry of Environmental Protection. In particular, I would like to point out that the uncertainty associated with the dispersion of particles was significantly reduced, and the risk of spreading was assessed as low. This has been important for the assessment that the maritime landfill will not have a negative impact on the marine natural diversity outside the landfill area. I would also like to highlight the technical assessments by the Directorate-General for the Environment of the effects on fish species that are characterised as endangered and that may have their habitats and spawning areas in the landfill area. It has been assessed that these are species present in the coastal fjords and where fishing limitations will be the most important measure to ensure that the management targets for these species are met. In the case of chemicals that are permitted to bind the particles together, these do not contain priority pollutants and they have been considered not to have significant adverse effects. Mineral activities with sea deposits have never been permitted under conditions as strict as those in the Engebøfjellet. Monitoring will be extensive, and the Environment Directorate will follow closely, among other things. in cooperation with the Food Authority. There is no environmental basis for establishing that land deposits are better than sea deposits. Different options need to be considered in concrete terms in each case. Several alternatives to maritime landfill have been assessed in the Engebøjellet, but none of the alternatives on land are considered to be environmentally better than sea landfill by the Environment Directorate. I have laid the foundations of the Environment Directorate's advice in my decision. Finally, I must stress that all mining activities have consequences for nature. But we also need minerals in the green economy. Finally, the question arises as to whether we are comfortable with the fact that the minerals we use in everyday life come from countries that have low environmental requirements and poor working conditions. I think we have to say no to this and rather facilitate environmentally sound extraction in Norway, where we make strict demands on the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1153	There were several things here. One question is whether there are no alternatives on land, and then the real question is whether there is an economy in the project that means that an authorisation should be granted. But let me ask: here's the thing about that within the permitted landfill area there's 3 km2 where you want to change the topography in the fjord with a fill of 150 meters, in a fjord where there's life from the bottom to the top, as it is today. It will obviously lead to changes permanently for the life that is in the fjord. The project has also attracted international attention. Then my question becomes: is the Council of State concerned that that attention can lead to a negative development and a negative reputation for the farms, the fisheries and the tourism that are in the Fördefjord and in the areas around?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1161	That's right, the representative of Elvesuen says that the landfill area itself is 3 km2. This represents approximately 5 pst. by the Førdefjord, where one then deposits these masses from down to 350 meters up to about 150 meters. So knowledge shows that when the landfill period is over, it will take five to ten years before new bottom fauna is formed in the landfill area. As far as concerns about seafood are concerned, this is why we have made the most stringent environmental requirements ever a maritime landfill. We are going to monitor this, including with regard to maritime food safety, and both the Environment Directorate and the Food Authority will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1169	It is repeated again that we have the strictest requirements for marine landfills, but the truth is that there is almost no country that allows marine landfills for mining waste at all. If I have the correct information, it's probably three or four per day that do. It's Papua New Guinea, it's Turkey, it's Indonesia, and in the Philippines there's also processes going on. No one allows this type of landfill with sludge and chemicals as close to the country as we do in Norway. Instead of pointing out that we have the strictest requirements, is it not really that we should follow the rest of the world, and consider ending at all by allowing marine landfills with mining waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1174	The question can quickly boil down to yes or no to mining. There are no environmental assessments that say that land deposits are better than sea deposits, and it must also be said that there are not so many other countries that have the topography that Norway has, with a high mountain lying close to a deep fjord, and in that mountain we have a mineral that the world needs. And then chemicals are also used here to get the mine dust into the landfill itself in the most appropriate way. There is a requirement that there are chemicals without pollutants, that we impose strict requirements on maritime food safety, and that is also to be monitored along the way. So I think that other countries can look a little bit at how we set very strict environmental requirements here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1183	‘In order to protect the main salmon populations, the Stortinget has adopted a special protection regime within 52 salmon rivers and 29 national salmon fjords. The aim is to strengthen and protect the conditions of the wild species and salmon populations included in the scheme from interference and activity. How does the Council of State work to protect the salmon fjords, and how will the Council of State strengthen the conditions of wild salmon populations in response to industry and other activities in the nearby coastal and fjord areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1190	We have an international responsibility for the Atlantic salmon, and I will continue to pay great attention to reducing the main negative impacts on wild salmon. I would like, among other things: regulate strictly the fish, control the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris and continue to lime acidified salmon rivers. With regard to the effects of fish farming, I have close dialogue with the Minister for Fisheries. On 20 March this year, the government presented a communication to the Stortinget on predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout. The Communication states that the government will use environmental sustainability as the key prerequisite for regulating further growth in the farming industry. The system of national salmon rivers and national salmon fjords is enshrined in the Salmon and Inland Fish Act, § 7a. The following information shall be provided: ‘When decisions are taken or measures are taken which may affect the living conditions of salmon, the specific considerations resulting from the Storting’s decision on national salmon rivers and national salmon fjords shall be taken into account. In these areas, the salmon shall be provided with special protection against harmful interference.» This provision of the Law on Salmon and Inland Fish provides an important basis for my efforts to reduce negative impacts on the wild species. When deciding whether to grant an authorisation under the pollution law for industrial activities, it is necessary to assess whether the activity could be harmful to the salmon. This provision is also important for other responsible authorities, primarily the fisheries management and watercourse management.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1204	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Elisabeth Aspaker said in an answer about sea depot on 5 March last year that ‘the pre-war principle is extremely important’ to the government. It would be natural to see this precautionary principle in conjunction with the objectives of the EU Water Directive, which the Storting has decided to include in its legislation. The objective of the Water Directive is to protect and, if necessary, improve the environmental status of all rivers, lakes, groundwater and coastal areas. Pollution must be eliminated and other measures put in place where necessary to strengthen the state of the environment through targeted measures. These are also important elements in the wider management of our national salmon fjords. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment share the view of the Minister for Fisheries on the position and role of the precautionary principle in policy? And in what way does the Council of State work to ensure that such a precautionary principle is respected in meeting the objectives of the EU Water Directive and in managing the stock of wild birds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1213	It is important for the government to take into account both the EU Water Directive and what we have committed ourselves to through the London Convention. If you think about the matter that we have had a lot of discussion about in Stortingen today, Fördefjorden, this is exactly why this matter has taken a long time. There have been many investigations, and it is precisely to get answers to many questions, to get more knowledge, to check whether the case is under the EU Water Directive. And we've also been concerned about making such strict demands that we can ensure maritime food safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1218	Representatives Vegar Solhjell and Ola Elvestuen have submitted a proposal for a representative asking for the establishment of a practice on issues relating to major mining projects with significant interests against each other to be submitted to the Stortinget for final decision. At the same time, there is an important question related to fjord landfills, whether Norway is still one of the few countries in the world that permit such activity, or whether we are going to follow the practices of most other countries that we otherwise like to compare with, in this field. This means that the debate in the Storting on fjord landfill and mining is of great importance for the Fördefjord and Repparfjord cases, but also for future cases of a similar nature. The matter in Fördefjord is already settled, but the Repparfjord case is still pending. Can the Council of State guarantee that the emission permit to Repparfjord will not be decided until after the representative proposal from Solhjell and Elvesuen have been debated and taken a decision on by Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1223	In response to a previous question: one thing is to compare Norway with other countries, but we have a special topography in Norway. We have high mountains with minerals lying densely on deep fjords. It is then important that we go thoroughly into each case. The previous government presented its mineral strategy, where one was quite clear that it was possible to use sea deposits, but one would assess it in each case. Then the law is so that it is the government that decides on these matters after long and good proceedings, where one gets an answer to the necessary questions that are asked along the way. I just take note that no one suggested in Stortinget when the Mineral Act was passed, that these matters should be dealt with in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1234	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: «The consideration of the ownership notification by the Business Committee made it clear that a majority would like to see an active state ownership characterised by strong respect for, inter alia, the environment and the climate. Does the Council share the view that by 2030 the companies held by the Minister of Industry's portfolio, such as Investinor, Argentum and Innovation Norway, must become so large that a high proportion of the risk capital made available is spent on green industrial activities on green growth?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1243	Direct ownership by the State shall be exercised professionally and predictablely. That is the broad political agreement. As the owner, the government expects companies to work intently to discharge their social responsibility. Societal responsibility is defined as how the activities of companies affect people and society, including the climate and the environment. The government attaches great importance to the good performance of civil society responsibilities in the field of climate and the environment by state-owned companies. The government therefore took this step further, with clear expectations of the companies in this area. The government expects companies to assess the risk of climate change and climate action, to be at the forefront of the work on climate and environment in their industry, including measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to have a conscious view of the benefits of early adaptation to new climate and environmental requirements. This is what we follow up in the meetings and the ongoing dialogue we have with the companies. It is the directors of the companies who are to assess how the expectations of the State which owns the best can be followed up and that these can be operationalised in an appropriate manner. This applies to Argentum, Investinor, Innovation Norway and all other companies where the country is the owner. The government is working widely to enable Norwegian business to take advantage of the opportunities offered by increasing emphasis on climate and environmental objectives in policy-making and in markets. Here the enterprise-oriented instrument plays an important role. In the year’s budget, the appropriations for Innovation Norway increased, including 90pst. increase in the Eco-Technology Scheme. Over the budget of the Minister of Oil and Energy, there was also a significant increase in the Environment Fund, which gives Enova greater power to promote environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and production and development of energy and climate technologies. As the owner of Statkraft, we have also secured Statkraft's equity to make important investments in renewable energy. As I said at the outset, we have clear expectations that state-owned companies will respond well to the climate and environmental challenges. At the same time, ownership policy and governance decisions must balance such considerations and other considerations. The overall objectives and expectations of the State are set out in the ownership notification, which was dealt with by the Stortinget in February. Finally, it is the case that the Stortinget has asked the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to monitor whether the companies in its portfolio are leading the industry in the climate and the environment. We are about to start this work, and we are also going to review how companies are exposed to climate risk. I will come back to Stortinget with an information about this work when it is started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1262	I thank you for the answer, which includes both the companies that are part of what the ownership message is about, and what is my main focus, namely the company like. Innovation Norway. And let that be a prime example for me. The Left wants to strengthen the mechanisms that contribute to technological development and ensure access to risk capital for large, innovative green projects. My concrete follow-up question to the Minister of Industry will then be: What will the Minister of Industry actually do to ensure that businesses directly under the control of the State will in future use more resources and instruments targeted at green business activities and investment in the green transition – and I am thinking in particular of Innovation Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1269	It is that we have ownership principles for our exercise of ownership. We exercise it through the ownership dialogue with the companies. But we also give the companies mandates and means to put them into practice. We're not on the board, and we're not making concrete decisions about, for example. given investments, but we follow up on the goals and expectations we have, and the ones we have expressed through the ownership message. This concerns Innovation Norway, and it concerns all other companies. And then we have some companies, e.g. Investinor, which is targeted specifically at opportunities that exist in green investment. They have made more such investments, and that is positive. So this is followed up, but the concrete assessment of the concrete project is the board of directors of the company doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1276	Let me end by asking the Minister of Industry about the new business plan that she is about to develop, and which we hope to have a good cooperation on. In the left, an offensive policy for several entrepreneurs and small businesses is also an important part of the green shift that we are now doing in Norway. Green solutions require innovation and entrepreneurship and a society that honors entrepreneurs and those who think new. For the Left, it is important to recognise and highlight also those who engage in green entrepreneurship in the small. Creating a green workplace for itself and someone else is also part of the green shift. So the final question is: how will the Minister of Industry contribute to the creation of more green businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1285	The Minister of Industry has basic faith in wise, young heads, and wise, young heads think wise solutions for the future. The future is green, and the green shift is going to be good business, and it's going to make sense to invest in. So I believe in many ways that this is giving itself, with good help, of course, of our tool, in the sense that new technology will arise in existing areas, but also in new areas, and they have to be completely different from what we see today. It knows especially young adult generations. That is why we must contribute to the tools and good policies of entrepreneurs, and that is the whole point of the founding plan. Then we haven't made a plan; we're going to make it. And it has to be made after the input of both those who want to establish, and those who have founded, those who have succeeded, and those who have not succeeded, and all those who want to make good sense – so that we can make a better policy to get more entrepreneurs in place, because we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1299	‘The Child and Family Service Midtown in Trondheim wanted to stay at Aglo Children’s and Family Centre for a mother and her 6 year old child. They were refused without a reason, although there was no capacity available at Aglo and waiting list with others. Several municipalities in central Norway report that they have been refused the use of the Aglo offer in similar situations. Has Buffetat given the opportunity to reject the wishes of the municipalities for the placement of non-profit institutions with free capacity, when there is a waiting list at public institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1306	A good offer to the youngest children is important in order to provide early help and prevent future problems. We know that a stay in the center of parents and children can be a good and necessary measure for many families. This specific case, to which the representative Arild Grande refers, has been submitted to the Bufetat region of Central Norway. We have also been in contact with the child and family service in the centre of town in Trondheim. Neither Buffetat nor the Central City Children's Protection Service have registered an enquiry that matches the description provided by the representative here. I cannot therefore assess this matter separately. However, I would like to explain the responsibility of Bufetat for the centres for parents and children, to which the representative also refers. Staying in parents and children centres is a voluntary aid measure. Buffetat does not have a statutory responsibility for providing places for parents and children, as the establishment has in relation to the placement of child protection institutions. This is also justified by the fact that investigation and relief measures are essentially municipal responsibilities. The establishment is therefore not responsible for the existence of sufficient numbers of places in parents and children’s centres, nor is it obliged to expand the existing offer of such centres. The responsibility of the Bufetate is limited to approving the centres for parents and children, and to allocating existing lucky days places in the centres. It also follows from § 9-4 of the Children's Protection Act that Bufetat will cover the part of the municipality's expenditure on the stay that exceeds a specified fraction. In Stortinget's treatment of Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 it was decided that Bufetat should carry out non-statutory tasks to a small extent. The current distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality was also made clear in Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013, which was treated during the previous ageing period. Nevertheless, Bufetat has a responsibility to ensure the proper use of existing State sites. Within the budgetary framework laid down by the Storting, they must use the already established State premises before they can purchase equivalent locations of private operators. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left there was 35 million. DKK per year for the purchase of places from five non-profit centres for parents and children. This has meant that access to purchase multiple private spaces has improved considerably. There are a total of five ideal centres for parents and children in Norway. Three of these are located in the Bufatat purchasing area and the establishment is to conclude contracts for the purchase of premises at these centres. In the leadership that has been provided, I believe that the use of parents and children's centres is being increased this year. I would also like to inform you that Aglo currently has a children's and family centre fully covered in their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1329	I thank you for your answer. I find it strange that it is claimed that there has not been such an enquiry all the time that one such one has been sent to Stortinget from the very Children's and Family Service Midtown in Trondheim by an employee there. It might have been interesting to drill more in, but in any case, it's just about a manoeuvre, because this isn't a unique example. We've heard of many similar examples with the same outcome in recent years. When a mother and her child need help, and the municipality is notified of it, it's urgent. All too often we see that there is a waiting list at the state institution, while there is free capacity at the non-profit sector, and as I perceive the legislation, public capacity is to be used first, but if there is no capacity there, then you have to make use of non-profit capacity. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1336	That's right. I want to go back to the first thing the representative picked up. When I got a question from the representative, I took it very seriously and checked whether this was the case. And then I kind of have to assume – when I've checked both with the city centre in Trondheim and with Bufetat – that the numbers and the answers I get there are correct. But I can assure the representative that I will go deeper into this to see if it can be a mistake. So to the center of parents and children. In the last period, with the red-green in the tip, one said very clearly in the treatment of Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013 that the national child protection system should complete part of the non-statutory tasks. The center for parents and children is a monitoring facility that is a municipal task, and so it has been a start on a reduction in this offer, which I stopped last year before Easter. I am very pleased that we have now received extra funds for the purchase of places in the centres for parents and children that will provide a better offer to the families who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1345	It is positive to hear that the Council of State will investigate the matter a little further, because there are obviously a lot of claims that you need to get a little bit into. We also have to take it most seriously, all the time the Storting has said that we should use public capacity first, then non-profit actors and then commercial ones. And that order has been a clear priority over several years. With ‘free capacity’, I believe that if there is a waiting list with the state operator, there is no available capacity there, because for mother and children who need help, it is urgent. Then we can't wait three months, or six months, for there to be a free offer from the state operator, and then it's important that the ideals get the opportunity to get to it. I am happy with what the government parties and the cooperation parties have done with regard to the purchase of offers, but I hope that – across the party boundaries – we can discuss more opportunities to manage these very vulnerable families effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1352	What the representative is dealing with here is correct. If there is waiting time, Bufetat will buy places from the ideal. Today, we're using half private-commercial, and the other is state exploitation. It'll be the wrong use of state resources if we don't use the capacity we have, and it should also be used. What the government is now working on is to put in place a structural system in which municipalities will have a greater responsibility, both professionally and financially, which will once again be a strength for the municipalities, where – if they decide that this offer is so important to that family – they can buy that place, whether it is a government, a non-profit or a commercial player. So I think that will also be a strength. In the case of parents and children's centres, as I said, this is not a statutory task. It's not a legal task that the state is going to offer, but we've stopped a reduction, so it's going to be at the same level as it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1365	‘The Health and Welfare Act provides for the use of coercion and power in relation to people with developmental disabilities. This provision came into force in 1999 and included: as an objective to avoid the use of force. According to the Health Inspectorate, 178 people decided to use force and power in 2000. The 2014 Supervisory Communication reports on 1,289 persons who have decided on the use of coercion and power. Does the Council of State know the reasons behind this dramatic increase in people exposed to use of power?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1372	At the end of 2014, there was a decision with active coercive measures against 1,239 people with mental retardation, compared to 1,102 at the end of 2013 – according to the State Health Authority. The most common enforcement measures are to limit access to food, drink, beverages and assets. Other common measures include holding, exit alarm, forced care such as tooth polishing and washing, shielding and foot follow-up. It is true that there is a dramatic increase in registered coercive use from 2000 until now. However, there is no point in supposing that there has been a dramatic increase in staff use of coercion against people with mental retardation. The increase to which the representative refers has come primarily as a result of a transition from unregistered to registered forced use. Forced action is not just objectively taken as a coercive measure, for example: lock-in, but also measures that the person himself does not want, such as: Toothpuss and wash. Before the enforcement provisions came into force in 1999, a great many of these measures were carried out as part of care, without one being aware that this was actually coercive use. The legislation, together with considerable efforts by the county officials, has made a conscious service of what is compulsory use. So we've got the real numbers in the light. The review of the 2004 circular on legal certainty in the use of coercion and power in relation to individuals with mental retardation has also contributed to this. I am concerned that the service should not be more coercive than necessary. Good competence in the service will help prevent and reduce the use of coercion. The government has therefore strengthened the commitment to competence, which will contribute to enhancing the competence of municipal health and care services. An individual training measure, ‘ABC of my life’, shall enhance the competence of the health and care services of persons with developmental disabilities. The national competence environment for development inhibition shall contribute to the development of this training. A municipal grant scheme has also been established to strengthen the professional development and competence of municipal health and care services for people with developmental disabilities. Together, these measures shall contribute to the provision to the user of individually adapted services, which shall be used only where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1389	This statement from the Council of State was actually a little bit bilingual and difficult to deal with. In the first part, one argues that everything is fine, while in the next part, one argues to develop better practices – and of course I am happy about that. User organisations, relatives and others have been in contact with me and have been very clear that this is not properly evaluated. One knows too little about the use of coercion against people with developmental disabilities, and one is concerned about the increase that has occurred since 2000. There is a strong desire for a knowledge-based review, preferably by a sample, which looks at this and goes thoroughly and critically through coercive use. Will the Council of State take such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1398	First of all, I do not remember in a description that my first part of the answer was about everything being okay. It was about what was the representative's question, which is what is the likely cause of the developments we see. The likely reason is the establishment of registration of coercion, and thus a development that we know from many other parts of the healthcare system. When a registration system is established, it takes time to develop the recording of actual actions. This is the most likely cause of the developments raised by the representative. When it comes to establishing the type of rules and registration, it is precisely in order to gain a sense of coercion in order to reduce the use of unnecessary coercion. That's the whole point. An essential instrument to do so is to increase not least the competence and attention to be paid to this in the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1405	A number of materials are available, including: a NACU report from Berge and Ellingsen from 2014, which addresses self-determination and the use of coercion and power and alternatives to coercion and power. It is not without reason either that user organisations and relatives are concerned when there is a six-seven-fold doubling of the use of coercion and power, and that a desire for a greater basis and a more knowledge-based review of why this happens, and how to avoid using coercion and power. I would like to ask the question again: Will the Council of State take the initiative in a critical review of the use of coercion and power in relation to children, young people and adults with developmental disabilities, and how will it actually continue to provide alternatives to coercion and power?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1412	The last one I answered in my first question. The second question, I believe, is also answered by the government, because I was in Stortinget myself on the initiative to set up a public sample to look at the life and housing situation of people with developmental disabilities after the PU reform. It followed up the previous government by promoting a roll-out message that was not based on a public investigation. This government, the Right-Fremskritsparte government, has followed up on the intention of the decision to enlarge and has now set up a public body that looks at the whole situation – the life situation, the supply and the housing situation – around people with developmental disabilities following the PU reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1421	‘Health Stavanger has started a process of conversion which means a substantial reduction in outpatient and surgical supply at Stavanger University Hospital’s department in Egersund. The current changes concern the surgical outpatient clinic with oral surgery and urology, gastric outpatient clinic and orthopaedic supply. The added concerns are that the switchover is a step-by-step eradicating of the entire hospital supply in Egersund. Is centralisation in line with the government’s hospital policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1428	Conversions at the Dalane DMS have continued over a longer period. In 2014, the Dalane DMS bed department was converted into a rehabilitation unit with the possibility to take part of complex rehabilitation processes in Health Stavanger. Health Stavanger states that this bed post has 16 beds and that it will be strengthened by several disciplines to ensure that the company can provide patients with the best possible care. The bed post and the rest of the Dalane DMS are now organized under the Department of Rehabilitation, Medical Division, Health Stavanger. In 2014, Health Stavanger also started a review of other outpatient services and other functions at the unit. This has been done following an assessment of the medical basis, organisational challenges and quality and patient safety issues. In this process, it became clear that the skin outpatient clinic will continue. Similarly, the offer is continued within cardiology two days a week, as well as inpatient consultation in urology. Nursing outpatients in diabetes and cancer continue. X-rays and laboratory functions continue as before. Health@home, former «KOLS-Kofferten», continues as a project in day-to-day operation and with a PhD research related to the project. Health Stavanger states that outpatient clinics for medical gastroenterological studies and orthopaedics – which include only assessments – have been decided upon in the light of professional considerations and efficiency considerations. The same applies to oral surgery, which has had two days a week. In both areas it has been a challenge to ensure stable staffing. The specialist health service offer is in continuous development. In the forthcoming National Health and Sickness Plan, the government will make visible to the Stortinget status and the main challenges of specialist health services. In this way, Stortinget can make the most important decisions on how to develop the specialist healthcare service. Nevertheless, there must always be room for local adaptations and changes. I believe that the changes at the Dalane DMS are such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1439	I then record that the Minister of Health and Health is doing well for the changes that have occurred in Egersund. I have a question about it so that the Council of State thinks that the changes that are being made are being made because it has not been good enough quality, and because it has not been sure stable manning. In any case, there is information that is new to me based on the knowledge that I have at my disposal in Egersund today. If the council actually thinks so, I thought he should do well for those statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1446	As I said, Health Stavanger has stated that the outpatient clinic for medical gastroenterological studies and orthopaedics, which are only assessments, has been decided upon on the basis of professional considerations and on the basis of more efficient use of resources. The same applies to oral surgery, which has had two days a week. In both areas, Health Stavanger informs us that there are challenges related to ensuring a stable crew. It is true that the development of the Dalane DMS implies that there have been changes throughout the supply, as shown here. It will have to be based on both what makes sense to have decentralised, in which areas a person is able to ensure good professional competence, and how medical developments change. When I presented everything that is done on the Dalane DMS today, which also strengthens the rehabilitation offer and the bed post, this is an offer that is going to be in the future and that is going to develop positively in the future, but in which there will also be changes, as it is in the rest of the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1453	I would have believed that with the capacity challenges at Stavanger University Hospital, it would be effective to decentralise as much as possible of the day outpatient services where one has good premises and a regular staffing. So my question is, how do I use Stavanger University Hospital that a centralization of this is actually going to ensure a more efficient operation? Does the professional community in Egersund expect to move the services to Stavanger, or does the professional community in Egersund expect to be confused? This is about leadership. In Hallingdal one has a well-decentralized supply in Ål, and they could do the same in Egersund.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1458	They've done the same in Egersund, but it can sometimes seem like the representative Toppe thinks that the best way to develop the specialist health service is to go back into the future and look back at everything that should be at its best yesterday, or maybe five years ago. It is a very dangerous development – which I would warn against – to believe that the decentralised specialist health service should be preserved and only be maintained as it was once established. In this case, it will be continuously weakened. There is still a strong offer in Egersund, and there are still plans for a strong decentralised offer in Egersund, but offers will change, as a result of both medical developments, the possibility of recruiting health professionals, and the rational use of human resources. Creating the impression that if everything was just yesterday, that's the best thing, is really going to be a strategy that involves a reduction and a professional weakening of the decentralised offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1474	This question has been withdrawn. That being the case, it is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-06.ana.ud2186e1489	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
