ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e21	Honourable co-representatives! The Weekend's acts of terror in France are an attack on all of us. Innocent and defenseless people were killed as they unfolded lifeless in the middle of what we know as the city of joy and love, Paris. Democratic Europe sprang out of the French revolution. The acts of terrorism in Paris are affecting our common democratic heritage and fundamental values in our society. Our thoughts go to the affected, the relatives and to the French people. We share their grief, and we share their sense of powerlessness, anger and despair. We join a united Europe when we now hold 1 minute's silence for the victims, their relatives and the French people. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e34	The called alternate of the Uppland County, Gunnar Kaus, has taken the seat. The representative Freddy de Ruiter shall apply for a care permit from 16 November until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Line Kysnes Vennesland, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Line Kisses Vennesland is present and will take the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Prableen Kaur, there is an application for a waiver from the time of 16 November to 19 November, under Jens Stoltenberg's leave, for welfare reasons. The Vara representative, Vegard Grøslie Wennesland, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Vegard Gröslie Wennesland is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e102	The unit is distributed at the posts of the representatives and the president refers to the proposal for a procedure. It is proposed – as you will see – that the matter be decided immediately. Does anyone ask for the word of the procedure? – Audun Lysbakken has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e107	The SV Group shares the intention of the proposal submitted. However, we believe that it contains significant political change. There are issues relating to refugee rights and the legal certainty of people. We believe that even if urgent treatment is necessary, there should also be room for comments to be written, so that the Storting is given the necessary leadership and interpretations to be behind such a decision, and that we are given a sufficiently thorough treatment, so that we know that the decisions we are making are sound. I would therefore suggest that we do not deal with the matter now, but that the matter be referred to the committee, with the clear recommendation to the presidency and the committee that it should be dealt with in an exceptionally rapid manner within the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e114	There are several people who have asked for the word for the treatment – Trine Skei Grande, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e117	The left also supports the proposal that we should be able to proceed to a rapid committee procedure. It is important that the Storting extends to deal with proposals quickly when the government has asked for it. But it is also right to remember that we already sent a letter to the Prime Minister on 6 September asking if we had all the powers to deal with the situation that is now. Four days later they were told that they had all the powers. Also, on an initiative against the President-in-Office of the Council to gather the Storting early in order to be able to make all the decisions and this process well, one was told that there was no need to do so. It is important that the Storting is on the offensive at all times to be able to get through decisions quickly. We've been there since September. The fact that we are going to do this so fast that we do not at all have the opportunity to deal with it in an expeditious committee procedure, we have little understanding of it. Many of these proposals will also take a long time to put into practice, and a day or two of comitology does not see any reason for the Left to weaken – it will strengthen – the work to be done in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e124	The Christian People's Party supports the intentions of the proposals made by the government, precisely to ensure control at Storskog. We therefore go against a general committee procedure, precisely because it will take longer, and the idea behind this amendment is that it should be implemented, if the Storting makes its decisions today and on Thursday, already on Friday. However, I would ask the President to consider whether we should at one point be able to pass this on to committee, and that is that the second and third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 76 should be deleted. That's the point that actually takes into account the UNE's authority of instruction. There's a point that I don't experience that has the need for haste like the other points in this proposition. So the Christian People's Party makes a proposal not for a general committee procedure, but just for the point that applies to UNE. I'm not sure if the President opens up, but I still want to put forward the proposal, so the President may have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e129	The Greens support the SV and the Left's proposal for a rapid committee procedure. The Government's proposal contains a number of elements in which the Green Party shares its intention, but which at the same time have such a far-reaching principle importance for Norwegian refugee policy, that it is very important that the type of change is given a minimum of anchoring and a minimum of democratic treatment in addition to that provided for in this case. I am confident that the Committee can do this so quickly that it does not have a significant impact on its implementation. I therefore hope that we can get the significant improvement that will give the committee time to look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e136	We are given the opportunity to debate the content of the proposals in addition to the debate, but on behalf of the Workers' Party, I would say that we can support the procedure on which it was briefed in the Stortinget, and to which we then nodded. But there's going to be suggestions, posts and assessments when we discuss the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e141	The centre party is also prepared to deal with the proposed treatment. In dialogue with the Prime Minister, everyone has said that we are ready for rapid treatment, and it is also essential that these proposals be implemented quickly, and this can best be done through the proposal on the table for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e146	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e155	Two proposals have been submitted. It's a proposal from Audun Lysbakken that the whole matter be referred to committee by Knut Arild Hareide for the deletion of the second and third sentences of the second paragraph of Article 76 and for the referral to committee in isolation. Alternatively, between the President's proposal that the matter be dealt with immediately, and the proposal of Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e167	I'm asking that the intruders get time to get the right number of people in the hall, because we're too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e172	So let's take a little break. – then we are ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e186	The proposal of Knut Arild Hareide is hereby rejected and sent to committee for the adoption of the second and third sentences of the second paragraph of Article 76. The voting boards showed that there were 14 votes in favour and 80 against. [[Printed catalogue 12.15.55]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e195	I did not get a vote, but I have pressed and pressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e200	Then we take the vote again because more people have not received the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e211	That means that the President's proposal has been adopted, and we are going to debate the matter. Treatment of Prop. 16L, Changes to the Foreign Affairs Act [[restrictions]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e217	The first speaker is Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e220	It is a great task to deal with the many refugees and asylum seekers coming to Norway in a worthy and secure way. It is a matter of caring for their interests, and it is a matter of safeguarding their interests in a safe manner while at the same time fulfilling our human rights obligations to people in flight. What we have experienced in the last few weeks is that many of those who cross the border with Norway, do not flee from war and persecution. They will be returned. In the meantime, we experience loads in the Norwegian system, which weakens the capacity to handle those who really need protection. If we are to secure and hedge those for whom the institution of asylum has been set up, it requires a much more offensive handling of those who come here without the need for protection. It also applies to people who now come to Norway after having had a safe stay in third countries. The legitimacy and empowerment of asylum policy in the population depend on a more effective handling of those who cross the border with Norway without having a need for protection than we have seen so far. The working party wishes to contribute constructively to a situation that requires it. So we've opened up to this very special treatment we have in Stortinget today. That is why we will also support the proposals that will come here and which the government has presented to the Grand Duchy, and we will support the proposal for a two-year interim effect and ensure that the proposals are dealt with quickly. There will be proposals on this during this debate and it will receive the support of the Workers' Party. It is also appropriate to point out the following: over several months, it has been clear that the number of asylum seekers will also grow significantly in Norway. We believe that the government should have thought of regulatory restrictions of this kind in the past. A process of increased time would allow for more input, likely to give more power to the changes and greater success certainty. Such a scarce process does not allow for consultation and prevents recordings that experienceably improve changes made — sometimes significantly. This, too, underpins the need for temporaryity. The short deadline allows us to join the government's proposals, and we do so by asking more questions than usual. We notice, for example. that the Law Association assumes that the legislative changes will create new practical challenges, including: to the police and courts of East Finland. The Association of Lawyers points to the possibility of a significant use of resources without a corresponding prospect of impact in the form of a faster clarification of the large number of asylum applications, and calls for the best to be an extraordinary effort to speed up the preparation of the new asylum applications. The rapid refusal of groundless applications will be the clear strongest signal on the outside that there is little to gain from seeking asylum in Norway if there is no real need for protection. This is a view we think the government should notice, regardless of the majority they can get in the hall today. Nor does it prevent us from joining the government's proposals today. The Labour Party hopes that the government will listen to good advice on the practical implementation of what is the intention of the amendment, namely to ensure faster return of applicants with unjustified asylum applications and send clear signals out of the country about this. Today, the Labour Party supports the proposal for the return of asylum seekers to third countries, which, for our part, means a great deal to our neighbouring country, Russia. At the same time, we stress the complexity of the fact that the proposal is very little discussed in the proposal. For our part, we would remind the government that Russia has shown mixed respect for human rights, to say it carefully. We assume that the government is involved in the further work and in the contact with Russia. The short deadline and the lack of consultation mean that the government should return to the Grand Duchy with an evaluation of the legislative changes over the temporary period of two years – if it receives a majority. This evaluation must provide a forum for consultation, and it will support the Workers' Party. It is important to stress that an amended legislation is not complete – it is hardly a beginning. Finally, it is implementation and implementation that counts. For example, new prison homes will be worthless if we do not have built capacity, space and have crews for this purpose, which is a different purpose from normal prison. The proposition we are dealing with today says little or nothing about the economic and practical consequences of the proposal. This also applies to the establishment of places for use in new prison homes and is a clear weakness in the proposition. It may seem that practical implementation is thus poorly prepared. As we read the proposition, it will require considerable resources, among other things. to the police and the courts for the proper implementation of these changes. It is a fundamental requirement on the part of the Workers' Party that the Government does what is necessary in a timely manner to ensure that the practical means are put in place and that the funding is secured, so that those in the first line really benefit from the changes in the laws of the Stortinget take advantage of this exceptional situation. Since the Stortinget deals with this matter without normal committee procedure, the Workers' Party also chooses to submit six specific claims to the Government: We will ask the government to start work on further changes in the rules, where the government will provide an opportunity to consult relevant actors with a view to improving the law in particular with a view to speeding up the process and sending asylum seekers with groundless asylum applications. We will ask the government to launch an ambulatory local handling team with 48 hours of processing for selected groups, a quick procedure for obvious groundless cases, and a dedicated fast-working return team working on travel arrangements for those to be sent out of the country. We would strongly ask the government to clarify the start of a new border station at Storskog, complete planning and ensure start-up in 2016. We will ask the government to ensure sufficient capacity for prison and foreign exchange in Finnmark. We will ask the government to assess asylum receipts with integrated processing capacity according to a model from Trondheim and Torshov, which has now been phased out. We will ask the government to explain its appropriations and decisions attached to the UDI since accession. We ask the government to come to the Storting before Christmas with a statement on the extent to which the UDI is now sufficiently rigged for a situation that can be far more extensive than the situation we are currently facing, with regard to the number of refugees and asylum seekers. We need a law that is adapted to the time we live in and the challenges we face. I recognise that it is complicated to draw conclusions. However, I assume that the government has an ongoing assessment of what new measures are needed, and that the government is continuously consulting the Stortinget on this within a reasonable time frame. It may also be relevant in the future to take decisions quickly, as today, and the more important it is that processing is thorough and that factual counter-conceptions are balanced. Finally, like the rest of Europe, Norway is in a situation that is not comprehensive. There's much more to our limits than we're used to. We're going to meet them in our best tradition, give protection to everyone who has a right to it, and politely, but certainly reject those who don't have it. There is hardly any country that has better assumptions to cope with this task, making all these adjustments than Norway. It's impressive to see how volunteers, individuals and organisations, and the first-rate government seats, have set up both with practical effort and not least by taking moral leadership in the harvest. We all have a lot to learn – let's be inspired by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e273	I am pleased that a broad majority in Stortinget wants to deal with this matter immediately. It's important. We are facing a situation where more and more refugees and migrants cross our Schengen border in the north and seek asylum in Norway. Many of those who come from Russia over Storskog do not need protection and burden the Norwegian system unnecessarily. For this reason, the government has made proposals for legislative changes that will help both to control the situation and to safeguard the fundamental principles of the asylum institution. The changes we are dealing with today, and the fact that we are now implementing an emergency treatment, highlight the seriousness of the situation and developments we have seen in the number of new asylum seekers from the summer to the present day. Today it became clear that 2 502 asylum seekers crossed the border with Norway last week. It was probably a new record. As of July, we have seen almost a monthly doubling of the number of migrants to Norway. This, of course, has a direct impact on Norwegian policy. In 2015, it means that we will accept more than three times as many asylum seekers as we proposed when the state budget was adopted last autumn – based on a moderate forecast. The number may increase further. For 2016, this also means a major change compared to all plans the government worked with when the state budget for 2016 was completed. As a result, due to the rapid development, we have been given an additional number to the State budget with the necessary repriorities for next year. We should never forget the background because many people are on the run. There is war and dissatisfaction in many countries of the world. Those entitled to protection shall be provided with it and those who, after careful assessment, come to Norway, either temporarily or permanently, we shall treat it properly. But at the same time, no one is served with an asylum institution that doesn't work. When the number of people crossing the border with Norway is doubled over a short period of time, the institution of asylum is at risk of collapse. We will quickly end up in a situation in which we are unable to deal with the progress, with the result – for those who are coming: waiting time and uncertainty associated with what will happen, for the system: difficulties in clarifying protection needs and in ensuring adequate capacity in the reception situation, and for all of us: confidence in the way asylum policy is organised, corresponds well to both national targets and international commitments. In particular, the situation in Storskog in Finnmark is demanding. The number of asylum seekers arriving is increasing, and it is a fact that many of those crossing the border do not need protection. Using time and resources to deal with groundless applications erodes the institution of asylum and steals capacity. The changes we are dealing with today are therefore particularly targeted at the challenges in Finnmark. The development of Storskog has happened quickly, and it is essential to take action to ensure that we have the tools we need to get control of the situation. In practice, this means that we will first and foremost strengthen the possibility of not dealing with asylum applications from people who have been living in Russia, so that we can quickly return those who are coming. Asylum seekers arriving in Norway via Storskog have ID documents, which are required to pass the Russian border station. In addition, everyone has some form of residence in Russia, such as: entry visa, tourist visa, temporary asylum, student visa or permanent residence permit. Some also have dual citizenship, including Russian. The majority of those crossing the border do not flee from civil war and persecution. Early in the harvest, the Syrians were the majority. Now we see that well over half of those who come are from other countries, such as Afghanistan and Pakistan. A large proportion are lonely young men. There is reason to believe that a significant part of the last group does not meet the requirements for protection in Norway. However, it requires a high level of processing capacity of the foreign authorities to process each asylum application, even if applicants have a consistently known identity. In addition, any complaints are addressed to the foreign subject, UNE – requests for conversion and possible legal proceedings. This also captures considerable resources and makes it difficult to return the applicants. In order to have the full effect of the changes made, we will instruct the UDI on how to apply the rules in the Russia cases. However, it would have little effect if UNE developed a different practice in these cases. Corresponding challenges will be able to be addressed in other areas gradually. The government has therefore assessed it in such a way that we must now introduce the same right of instruction to UNE as to UDI. This is the second amendment of the law to be dealt with. Several amendments to Chapter 12 of the Foreign Affairs Act on coercive measures are proposed to ensure that the foreigner is available and does not disappear until a decision is taken. This will also facilitate a rapid return if the application is rejected. The plan is that the laws should come into force already this week. Norway should continue to be a country where people who are persecuted, exposed to war and violence or who are at risk of their origin may seek refuge. But precisely because it is so important to be able to take care of those who really need asylum here, it is essential that we say clearly that we do not accept abuse of this vital system. Norway and Europe are in a difficult time. We feel today with our French sisters and brothers. We also feel about the millions who are fleeing in Syria or in other parts of the world. We need to help those who need it in the neighbourhoods, and those who have a real need for protection. In order to achieve this, we need to be clear on one thing: now it is those who have fled from war and distress, we shall help, not people who have had stays in safe third countries for years, and who now want to seek happiness in Norway. I hope the Stortinget today can gather behind these changes and send a clear and clear signal: we will help those who have a need for protection, and return those who do not have it quickly. So I would say that I am a little confused about the amendments that were presented by the representative Gahr Støre, because there is a proposal at least in my place where one is talking about an evaluation after one year, while the representative Gahr Støre spoke about a proposal that – I don't know if it was promoted – should mean that we should have a temporary period of two years. It would have been nice during the debate to find out what was really the proposals. There were also six other proposals. I would like to see a little order in what is really the proposals, so that we can review them on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e305	The President perceived that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre promoted six demands, but that no proposals were made. That's what the president expects will come in the course of the debate, so we'll put that in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e308	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the government for bringing forward this proposition for treatment in Stortinget, and also a great reward to the presidency for the way in which the matter is dealt with. We're in a time of inaccuracy. We are in a situation where very many people are on the move, and we also see a migration in Europe where very many are on the move without being registered. That is, we don't know where they are, who they are, and where they've been thinking, until they show up at the border where they want to seek asylum. We see a trend in Norway going in the wrong direction. We are constantly seeing new records regarding the number of people who come to Norway to seek asylum. The number of people last week was 2,502. This gives us enormous challenges. Then it is important that we ensure that we have a legal and regulatory system that is adapted to the situation we are in and that can handle this. We don't have that per day. That is why, on the part of the Progress Party, we fully support the proposal to have the same instructional authority over the Foreign Department as we have towards the UDI, because here we have to ensure that we have one's practice when it comes to policy-making and the exercise of authority. This is very important both to save time and to get a fair and fair treatment of the applications that come in. It is quite clear that if we are to be able to care for those who are entitled and need protection, we cannot spend a long period of time dealing with those who are obviously groundless asylum seekers. Coming from a safe third country, it does not provide the basis for asylum in Norway, but the practice and manner in which we have established legislation and legislation allows these persons to stay for a long, long time in Norway and use the legal system and other bodies to continue to appeal against the refusal of residence. It itself creates enormous challenges. That's why we have to make sure to adopt what's now in Prop. 16 L for 2015–2016, which we now have for treatment. This means that we can quickly ensure that people who come from a safe third country are sent out. This allows us to achieve a level playing field between UDI and UNE. This allows us to impose coercive measures to control people, so that we know where they are, and can ensure that they are kept in custody until dispatch can take place. Furthermore, it is important now to receive signals that persons coming from a safe third country will not be allowed to stay in Norway and thus not take the trip here. I hope that the parties who voted against direct treatment will still be able to support the matter itself, for this is an important signal to send out, all the time we see the current that is now coming across the borders. So to the proposals of the representative Gahr Støre: one thing is the six measures, but the representative Gahr Støre also said that there will be a proposal relating to evaluation after two years, while the proposal on the table for consideration is another proposal. I would like to ask you to clarify what you really intend to propose. At least that's not what's on my table. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the situation and the statistics that we are now seeing: which people are now coming to seek asylum? We see that there are a lot of nations coming now. The biggest increase concerns people from countries other than Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran. That's the last week's statistics show. We see people from Pakistan, Bangladesh and a number of other countries that are considered safe third countries. It is important to have this done quickly, to deal with the matter itself, so that the government can implement what becomes the will of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e327	This is an exceptional situation that needs exceptional action. It is important to prevent people without need of protection from travelling to Norway, and that those in need of protection get it. These measures, supported by the Christian People's Party, are measures to deal with the situation in Storskog. The questions we ask, however, are whether all the measures are necessary and whether they are taken correctly in relation to this very issue. The Christian People's Party is going to vote for the proposals today, but we have a lot of questions. The questions I will address in my article, and I also hope that the department will be willing to answer after today's debate. This is not in line with the kind of processes that we normally have here on the house, but it is such that we are in the process of extraordinary treatment. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals, but we also propose a supplement, a III: ‘The law shall be repealed with effect from 1 January 2018.’ This is a proposal in line with what happened when we adopted prison places in the Netherlands. It was in that proposal that it was temporary, because it was so clear also in the case that we did not want it to be a long-term practice. With the treatment today, I thought it was natural. I also see a proposal from the Labour Party on evaluation has been distributed. We expect it to be formally developed, but we fully support the proposal of the Labour Party that we need an evaluation based on the current procedure. I hope the President will accept that proposal. So let's see what's going on here. The only thing that goes on instructional authority towards UNE. The purpose of the creation of UNE was that it should be an independent complaint body, so that one would get a real two-way handling. We would like to show that the proposal will give the government the same authority of instruction as one has to UDI, and that this does not give the government authority of instruction in individual cases. We ask ourselves questions about this, and I want to ask the following questions: Will the change result in UN being unable to deal with some types of case, so that the case must be brought before the court instead? If that happens, it will be a bureaucracy process and not a simplification. In what way will the proposal to give instruction authority to UNE remedy the exceptional situation in Storskog be another question. I would like to ask the Council of State to provide examples that can make the need for this change clear. In the case of return to third countries, the purpose of the proposal appears to be that several cases should be excluded from substantive proceedings, i.e. where the applicant has passed through a safe third country. But what practical consequences this might have is not as clear. It is important that we ensure that we do not break international obligations and send people back to countries where they will not receive protection or risk being passed on to third countries. The Christian People's Party can support and support this proposal as long as we ensure that we do not send people who need protection back to countries where they do not really get the protection they need. The question I would like to ask about this proposal is: Will a few people really deal with their application for a third country as a transit route? Another question is, would this change have anything to say to those who have been expelled from Russia and, if necessary, seek asylum in Norway according to that need? Prisoning has also been included in this staging proposition. Freedom loss is a major intervention against individuals. It strongly advocates that such a proposal should not be adopted without carrying out the normal procedure with a hearing. In addition, it appears that one is to be apprehended and imprisoned, or whether the reporting obligation and the place of residence are satisfactory enough. The question I have to do with this is: The proposal appears arbitrarily related to whether a person will be covered by Section 105 of the Foreign Law, the obligation to report and a certain place of residence, or Section 106, arrest and imprisonment. In which case one will fall under Section 105, and in which case one will fall under Section 106, is the Christian People's Party's question. There is also a question for the proposal on how this is opposed to EU Return Directive Article 15, given that imprisonment in order to carry out the return can only happen if there is, in fact, a risk of avoidance or countermeasures of return. The Christian People's Party joins the proposal for an international foreign exchange and the deadline for departure, i.e. § 107 and § 90. To sum up, the Christian People's Party supports the proposals today. We think it's necessary in the situation we're facing, but we think there's reason to do this temporarily, first with an evaluation and that the laws are lifted if we don't think it's right to proceed. The time horizon is until 1 January 2018. I've asked a lot of questions. I understand that the Council of State in this debate cannot answer everyone, but I hope that the Council of State can give a signal as to whether it will be possible to ask questions to the Ministry, because today we support all the proposals, but on a somewhat unsafe basis, and I would like a better documentation before we go to final voting the first Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e359	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e363	We are facing a demanding international situation where a large number of people are driven away from war and conflict. There are also many who seek refuge in Norway, and there are some challenges for Norwegian society when so many refugees and asylum seekers arrive in our country in such a short time. There are great demands for our own reception apparatus, it puts Norwegian municipalities in a challenging situation, where they have to set up in a short time with reception facilities, municipal services, health care, etc. Those who have fled from war and conflict, we in Norway shall accept with openness and warmth. We know that many of those who now come from Syria are going to stay in Norway. This is why, in the years to come, it is also important to spend time and resources on good integration work — a job Norway has done so far. But with the number of people now coming, it is also important that Norwegian municipalities get resources to do the practical job with both reception and integration. Norwegian society is rich. We need to enable our municipalities to do the practical job, and then there must also be a work that is fully funded. Let me also say that the last few weeks and months have shown what efforts volunteers can make. They have made a formidable effort to respond to refugees coming to Norway – it is also a work that needs to be supported when, in the years to come, we are integrating the large number of refugees and asylum seekers that Norway will receive. While many will be staying in Norway, we also need to recognise that many people now come here who, according to our own legislation, will not be entitled to protection in Norway. In a situation where only over 9 000 asylum seekers have arrived in the last four weeks, we must also be firm in the practice of the asylum institution we have adopted, and we must be willing to tighten up if it is necessary for the law to be practised according to its purpose. And that's exactly what the Central Party feels today's changes in laws have as their purpose. Especially in Storskog, we have a difficult situation. Last week, a total of 2,500 asylum seekers came to Norway, and only 750 of them were from Syria. Many of those who come from other countries are just crossing the border of Storskog. The other people come from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan. In addition, many have Russian citizenship and residence permits in Russia. In Norwegian society, we're going to have heart layers for those who need help. But if we are really to have room for those who need the most, we must at the same time maintain a strict and resolute line with those who make manifestly unfounded asylum applications. The legitimacy of the asylum institute stands and falls on it. Those who make unfounded applications must be returned quickly and without spending too many of society's resources on those who deserve to stay on their return. We need to use procedural capacity and resources for something completely different. We need to use it for those who have a legitimate need for protection. Therefore, the Center Party supports the purpose behind the legislative changes proposed by the government today. We support the use of coercive measures regulated by amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act §105, 106 and 107, because without a tightening of the rules, those paragraphs, one will not in reality be able to implement the provision in Section 32 that the processing of an application which is manifestly unfounded can be refused and also carry out rapid returns. However, we assume that the use of such coercive measures is not carried out without the necessary judicial control, and we also believe that families with children and minors can be exempted from these provisions. The Party also supports the granting of instruction rights to UNE on a general basis to ensure an equal understanding of current legislation in the field of immigration. It is important to stress that it is not a matter of individual matters but of general considerations that can contribute to rapid clarification and governance in immigration and refugee policy, and in practice that means interpretation of the law and case law. The Central Party expects that when the Storting is now implementing such a change in law in a very untraditional way, it is also important that the changes are put into practice as quickly as possible and that the necessary resources are also allocated to the UDI, to the police and to the courts in order to actually implement the provisions. So it cannot be said that the government in retrospect believes that there are no resources to implement what we are now spending so little time adopting legislative changes in the Storting. The Central Party welcomes the proposals that have been made here today by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. We want to support a proposal to make the law temporary for two years. We believe that today's treatment is extremely exceptional, and through two years' work one will be able to gain experience of the changes in the law that are being made today. One would also be able to facilitate, where appropriate, a permanent amendment of the law with an ordinary committee procedure and an ordinary hearing. That would be beneficial. I see that there is a little bit of a point in the Rules of Procedure around the Chamber, but I must say that as extraordinary as this whole process is here today, it must also be possible to deal with and vote on such a proposal which has been put forward in a slightly extraordinary way. We are facing many discussions in the future that involve much more than what we are dealing with today through the amendment of the law. It concerns the capacity and processing of the pending applications. This concerns the municipal resources to take care of those who come and get to stay with us. The Central Party has repeatedly reiterated the need for a broad national settlement on refugees and asylum seekers and for integration. We still believe that this is necessary. Then all parties must be willing to put the political game aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e391	Internationally, we are now in a situation where wars and conflicts make us have a huge refugee disaster worldwide, where the need for humanitarian aid and burden-sharing among countries will be important in the future. Europe was not able to be fast enough in response to the fact that the large human groups are now moving in Europe – as we are seeing right now. When this happens, our asylum institute is under pressure. Then our challenge is to manage to lift the ideals that are important to promise, but also to be willing to intervene to ensure that those asylum seekers who have groundless applications do not destroy the institution of asylum, which is such an important part of the democratic thinking of the Western world. It is important, when we feel that our entire asylum system is being pressured, to remember that Norway is comparable to its 22,000 neighbours, Sweden, who really have a system under pressure. They get 10,000 a week and have now received 112,000. It really provides a perspective on an asylum system that is under great pressure. In addition, Norway has a special responsibility, because we have a separate part of the Schengen external border for which we are responsible. The left has a number of proposals that we believe could streamline the process, eliminate queues, look at different constraints and also test the need for some social benefits. We have a number of proposals to improve integration and to ensure that the institution of asylum is used for precisely those for which it is to be used – those who need protection. Then we have to have faster clarifications, including those that do not need protection. We have put those proposals into the ongoing asylum negotiations here in the house, and we hope that you have an open attitude to that, which you have had when the Stortinget meets an emergency treatment from the government. As I said earlier, the Left has been concerned that we need to reach out to find extraordinary solutions early. We were actually willing to do it already in September and it seems that the government is tired of having a few days on it – when we already said in September that we were willing to reach out to find the good solutions. So to the proposals that are on the table today. The one proposal, which is about extending access to the processing of applications, is that we see the situation in Storskog and at our Schengen external border. The left agrees that there is no reason to use much of our procedural capacity on people who have been in, or have been staying in, countries that we regard as safe. However, the dialogue with Russia is likely to be crucial to whether this will work. I think it is important that the human rights situation in Russia should also be seen in developing this. It is clear that for the Left, who has a sister party called Yabloko, who today feels that their own party leader is arrested and imprisoned in Russia, the human rights situation in Russia is not such that everyone who is staying in Russia should not be treated with an application. What makes the Left stand for the wording that the government has put forward is that it's underlined that you don't want to send people back if what they meet is a return to a country that we don't think is safe. That is an important prerequisite for our support for this proposal today. The second proposal concerns the possible use of coercive substances. We are doing this today, and we have had some rounds of the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, on the use of coercive measures against asylum seekers in the past. Today's policy has stood up to the EMC. The difference now is that we are willing to use coercive measures against people who have not been treated an asylum application. This means extending the use of coercive measures to meet the clear human rights requirements of the EMK for each individual human being. We are also a little uncertain — if these are purely prison-like measures, this can be replied to by the Council of State — why there is so much urgency. If there's anything my time in this hall has taught me, it's that prison is not being built quickly. If you need four days of treatment in order to have a legal home, how did you intend to enforce it? The left will, under great doubt, nevertheless support it today because we believe it is important to gain control of Storskog. But this is probably one of the points where you have to be willing to review your position, when you measure it against the European Conventions that we are actually set to administer. But there is one proposal on the left today is going to vote against, and that is the proposal on the right of instruction to UNE. In May of this year, the Minister of Justice put down a selection according to the wishes of the Left – yes, following clear programme formulations in both the Left and the Progressive Party’s programme – to explore a new system of asylum applications that ensures legal certainty and also ensures efficiency. In order to contribute to this, the Graver Committee was reduced. What you're doing today is taking it in the opposite order. What we wanted is a UN that would have looked much more like the trial that we really want to have in the UN. We think there are many possibilities to streamline the system we have today. There are also opportunities not to make the infinite loops that we have today, which depend on us spending too long, and that we don't have enough transparency in the treatment. But in the presentation, the Prime Minister stressed that she was not to change this in Storskog, she was more for it because she thought it was right. We think it's wrong. The Milan Committee, which has gone through this earlier, was quite clear that instruction on the part of the UN on the field of asylum should not be given. It is a political governance of legal rights that lies very far from the Norwegian legal tradition. There is a lot of experience from many parties in government that has led us to the system we have today, to move the decisions in these matters away from the politicians. All this experience we are now throwing on the boat – all the systems that have been developed over a long time, we are throwing on the boat. I really mean that if you were to instruct UNE, it might have been just as real to put it down. This is the judicial body that is supposed to ensure that we comply with international conventions. It is safe to discuss whether politicians should be more closely involved in the definition of a humanitarian basis and in the other assessments that may be more political, but the whole field of asylum is primarily governed by international conventions. They are not added to a department for political instruction. They're followed, and it's UNE's job to make sure they're actually followed. We don't want to enter it under any instruction authority. But the Left will support both the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the proposals of the Labour Party. I believe that when Parliament is about to roll around, is willing to stretch and is actually willing to do something extraordinary, it must be possible in this Chamber to have tolerance for making proposals while discussing the matter – when you are denied both comitology, consultation rounds and all the other democratic institutions. If it's like this in the hall that people are to be refused any suggestions during such treatment, you don't just have to go back to the spinal cord, ideologically, as one should do in any of these matters relating to UNE. Then you also have to think about how you want elected bodies to be governed, and what is the objective of this treatment – whether it is to overrun the Stortinge or whether it is actually to get a real treatment. Then I would like to remind the government parties that this is not even a majority government, and then at least you have to make sure that you have Parliament behind you, and not against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e419	It has not been a problem for many people to know whether to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e422	I want to say that the many questions raised by the government in this debate, and the little confusion that is surrounding the process here now, are a strong emphasis on what I and representatives of several parties said at the beginning of the debate, and a good reason why the Storting should take the few days extra it could have been, to ensure that we get a proper treatment of this. SV agree that the situation in Storskog is a situation that requires exceptional attention and, if possible, exceptional measures. We share what the government says is the intention behind the proposals that have been made. We are very concerned – in the situation in which we stand – to be able to release as much of our common forces as possible, to help people in need, to help those in need of protection, and to help them as refugees from war. It also means that we need to consider measures that can prevent people from coming to Norway without a need for protection and that we can return people without a need for protection more quickly – including measures that we may not be in favour of in a more normal situation. On this basis, the SV will vote in favour of several of the proposals submitted by the government, but not all. We agree that people living in a safe third country do not need asylum in Norway or should seek asylum in Norway. We see that there is a strong increase over Storskog of individual groups of asylum seekers who do not come from, for example. The war in Syria. With that in mind, as I said, we will vote in favour of some of the proposals, but I must also say that it is a strange experience to be part of an urgent procedure after a harvest in which the government has previously assured that it had the powers it needed, and where the opposition has called for action without seeing anything in particular. It would have been possible – it is very difficult to believe that it would not have been possible – to come up with the proposals that the government believes are necessary, at an earlier stage, so that we could have another treatment in Stortinget. I think it's a little trusting. I also think it is important that we remember ourselves, even in this debate, that we must keep our heads cold and have our perspectives in order. The refugee crisis continues to be a crisis primarily for the refugees and the countries affected by war and their neighbouring countries. We accept a very small proportion of the people who are on the run, and we are in a much better situation than most countries who accept people on the run. Our efforts are pale compared to what Sweden and Germany are doing. That is why I think it is important that the Stortinge stands together to warn against an atmosphere where we are so concerned about tightening up that we forget what should be the main task of the Stortinge and the government right now, namely to take positive leadership and show people in Norway that we should do this, and remember that most of those who have received their asylum applications treated in Norway this year have been accommodated because they have need protection. Today we have a public debate that sometimes makes it look like it's those who don't have it, who make up the majority of those who come. Norwegian policies can slightly change what has created the refugee crisis. It also means that no matter what we do today or in the future, more refugees will come to Norway. Our most urgent challenge, therefore, is not just to get the Big Forest in order, but to get the integration work going and to strengthen our international solidarity. SV agrees that creating peace around Storskog is part of that job. I'm going to come back to the points where SV agrees with the government, but let me start with the point where we strongly disagree, and where I'm also very surprised that the government has chosen to promote proposals in this context – and that's what instruction law against UNE, which also several other parties are sceptical about. It's hard to understand, and the proposition isn't even trying to argue for it, that the point is going to have something to say about the situation in Storskog now. On the other hand, there is a proposal that the government parties have made for too long, and that they are now seeking a majority for by an urgent procedure that I cannot see at this point is at all justified. That is why I am also surprised that several parties will vote in favour of this instructional proposal. We are at risk of creating a situation where there is a much larger room for politicians to intervene against UNE, which would just be a body that could not be controlled in that way, against specific groups of asylum seekers and in specific political situations. It involves a repoliticisation of the Foreign Affairs Department, to which SV is very critical, because the Foreign Affairs Department in its time meant a step away from direct political governance, which was widely agreed upon by accident. It was unfortunate for legal certainty, and it was actually such that both those who wanted fewer refugees to Norway, and those who wanted more, thought it was unfortunate. Now we're at risk of taking a step back in that direction. It is also in a situation where the government has – I believe – set in motion an investigation relating to the special courts we have and the roles they should have. On that basis, SV will vote against the amendments to § 76. With regard to the other proposals, SV could vote mostly – we share their intention – but the process makes it difficult, especially on one point. Proposals for amendments to point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 32 shall apply. It is an important principle in refugee law that no country should place asylum seekers in a situation where they can become wasteballs from one country to another. One must therefore be sure that the applications which a person refuses to deal with will be able to be dealt with in another country. If one is not, then people who have had a stay in another country for a period, but now do not have a stay, will not be treated anywhere. That is the problem with the wording of the bill that the government has included. It describes having lived in a safe third country. I think it could have been solved with a rewording of the type ‘has permanent residence in a country or an area where the foreigner may have been persecuted’. SV has considered promoting another legislative proposal, but we do not feel that it is serious just to present a new text proposal without receiving the legal assistance that it is common for the Stortinge to ask for, and without getting the thorough treatment that a bill deserves. We have therefore assessed it so that it is not wise to promote an amendment in this situation, but it also means that we are today voting against amendments to paragraph 32, first paragraph, point (d), even though we initially share the intention behind the proposal. We simply believe that it is necessary to question whether the proposal of the government at that point is in line with the right of refugees. If we are unsure whether there can be any conflict with the conventions, we cannot vote for it. But we wanted to vote in favour of a similar proposal. The last thing I want to think about is coercive measures. Prisoning people who haven't done anything illegal is a very invasive act. It is not illegal to apply for asylum – even if the asylum application is not well-founded. It's already in the Norwegian legislation you know access to prison. However, we see that it is and may be necessary – if many people disappear – to have increased access to coercive measures in order to enforce the changes that the government wants to implement with the changes in Section 32. But we are deeply concerned that we are not getting a more thorough process around such interventional measures. Therefore, I thought that my message would be that SV would vote against these proposals today, but consider it forward to the second reading, after the answers we can get to questions to the department. But if the Storting decides that these changes to the law should be temporary, I believe that this is different. A temporary and limited proposal is much more relevant for SV to be included. I would therefore ask that the voting order be such that we first decide on a matter of temporaryity. If it is adopted, I would encourage the SV's group to vote in favour of the changes in Section 106, and then we will consider until Thursday how we will finally do it. I assume that the second reading in Stortinget this time has to be a real treatment, where there is also an opening so that parties can change voting compared to today, and where hopefully we will have received a good answer to questions to the ministry, so that we have a better basis of fact for the decisions we make then than we have today. Summary: SV will vote in favour of all proposals except the proposals for amendments to § 32, first paragraph, points (d) and 76, second paragraph. We will vote in favour of a proposal that amendments to the laws be made temporary, for two years. We will vote in favour of an evaluation proposal, as promoted by the Labour Party. If the proposal that the law be made temporarily falls, SV also wishes to vote against the new letter g in the first paragraph of Section 106 and the new letter k in the first paragraph of Section 106a.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e454	When the government informed the Storting about this urgent proposal on changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, which is now being discussed, the starting point was, of course, the exceptional situation in Storskog, in addition to the other large influx of asylum seekers. Of course, the Greens agree that it is necessary to scale up and streamline reception and treatment in Storskog and elsewhere, and we will support measures that we believe actually contribute to this. That is why we will also support several of the proposals put forward by the government on amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act, but we believe that other proposals, at least within the framework of the urgent procedure to which it has now been put, have such far-reaching implications that it will be in everyone's interest to ensure a minimum of treatment and selection in professional environments. It will strengthen the proposals – if they are adopted – in relation to whether they are being passed at full speed here and now. In examining the government's proposals, we must also bear in mind that, just after this debate, the parliamentary leaders are negotiating a wide range of proposals from all parties on practical measures to improve the efficiency of both the reception and integration of refugees and asylum seekers. In these negotiations, the Green Party wants to contribute to the broadest possible consensus on a better refugee policy, and we believe that many of the practical measures that will be addressed there will be more effective in dealing with the large flow of refugees than some of the proposals made by the government today. Many people who, particularly in Storskog, want to stay in Norway without having a need for protection, should be returned. The Green Party supports actions that, on the right basis, send effective signals to people to prevent them from embarking on long and costly journeys against the Norwegian border on a false basis. But the Foreign Affairs Act has been developed to provide refugees in accordance with Norwegian and international obligations on legal certainty. It is designed to take such considerations into account over time both when the situation is what we have so far perceived as normal, and in crisis situations, and it is therefore very important that the Storing has ice in its stomach when the situation is exceptional, as it is now. There is a classic delivery gel in the juice that developing legislation on the basis of extreme situations results in poor results. A few of the legislative changes in the government's proposal today will have far-reaching consequences not only for the emergency situation in Storskog, but for all future Norwegian foreign policy. This means that as proposed by the government, the Greens cannot support the amendment to point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 32 of this vote. We sympathise with the intention, but firstly, we are uncertain whether this proposal will contribute to an improvement in efficiency of importance – there is already a rapid 48-hour procedure – and, above all, we see a significant risk that the proposal will weaken the legal certainty of genuine asylum seekers. As we know, legal certainty in Russia is very unclear, and as late as 15 October, Russia was sentenced to the European Court of Human Rights for unsustainable treatment of people entering Russia seeking asylum. One way to strengthen the proposal by the government will be to include legal certainty guarantees of the type contained in the EU Procedural Directive. Nor can the Green Party support the proposal for an extended instruction authority towards UNE. The UN’s independence is a very important principle, and it is also justified by a comprehensive policy approach in Norway, where the reasons put forward at the time are just as valid now. There are efficiency reasons, not legal certainty reasons, that underpin the government's proposal, and I would strongly warn against thinking that way in a situation of pressure. This applies not least to the government’s argument on the reduction of the need for consideration, for consideration is one of the most important legal safeguards for complaints. On the other hand, the Green Party can support the proposal for amendments to the fifth paragraph of Section 90 on a shorter period of exit, provided, of course, that there is a proper procedure with the necessary legal certainty guarantees. We can also support the proposal for amendments to Section 105, and we can support the proposal for changes to Section 107 on Internatial Foreign Affairs, which we do not see as a major difference from the current situation. But for the time being, as the proposal stands, we cannot support the proposal for amendments to Section 106 with new grounds for detention. These are significant changes with a clear risk of violating the legal certainty of people who have legitimate claims for asylum, and this is a very good example of the need for a minimum of political treatment and consultation in order to ensure good, professional and democratic anchoring. However, if there is a majority of the Christian People's Party's proposals that the proposed legislative changes have a temporary effect and are repealed from 1 January 2018, the Environmental Party of Greens will also be able to support the amendments to Section 106. We will also be able to subsidise the proposal of the Workers' Party on the evaluation of legislative changes within two years. The Greens clearly see the need to send clear signals internationally that people who do not have asylum should not travel to Norway. We also recognise the need to assure the Norwegian people that the exceptional refugee situation will be met with necessary and concrete measures from Stortinget. But the most important thing is that no doubt is created that Norway will continue to maintain and continue its obligations towards human rights and that when we take new measures, it is not to use an exceptional situation to implement general mitigation measures against people on a fugitive basis, but on the contrary to strengthen Norway's efforts towards these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e473	Let me first thank the Stortinget for a constructive and good debate and a great goodwill in the haste of this matter. I believe it is of great importance, and I am very pleased that the Storting has opened up such an opportunity. There is broad consensus in the Storting on the need for restrictions in the field of asylum, and I am also pleased that a majority have notified consent to the proposed legislation. The legislative changes will strengthen the possibility of returning quickly asylum seekers who come to Norway after staying in a safe third country, for example. Russia, and provide better opportunities for foreign policy governance. Europe is now experiencing a historic influx of asylum seekers. The number of persons seeking asylum in Norway has increased sharply in recent months. I registered that both Lysbakken and Skei Grande were concerned that one already in September thought that one could identify this as a challenge. Both the image of arrival and the political debate were quite different in September from what has been happening since September, through October and into November. That's why there's now a basis for looking at this in a different way from what happened in September. Many of those arriving now also come across Storskog in eastern Finland, which poses significant challenges for both registration and reception capacity in northern Norway. I would like to remind you that, in order to address the challenges, we have opened up the West Camp as a reception centre according to the model of advice, which has also made it possible to better register and manage the asylum influx we have received over Storskog. However, there is a need for a wide range of measures to ensure the proper functioning of the asylum system. In the supplementary number of the budget proposal, the government has presented a number of proposals on how to deal with the situation in the short term, while at the same time laying the basis for a new policy. The concrete legislative proposals that are now being presented build upon and complement this. Many of those who have come to Norway over Storskog are persons who have had a residence permit in Russia. We also see that there has been a major change in the arrival picture of Storskog. Initially, almost only Syrian refugees or asylum seekers came from Russia over Storskog. Many of them had had a long period of residence, a study permit, a work permit in Russia. Now we see that the image of arrival over Storskog is completely different, and there are a number of nations that are now using this itinerary, among other things. has increased the proportion of Afghans dramatically. There are also circumstances that require us to act quickly, and the fact that many of them have had a residence permit or have a residence permit or visa in Russia makes it necessary for the foreign administration to consider refusing to process the application in substance. This bill provides a basis for more effective handling of these issues. Proposal for a new regulation for, inter alia: apprehension and imprisonment of asylum seekers most likely to be returned to a safe third country open the way for police to use coercive measures in these cases, without the need to first identify a specific avoidance hazard in each case. The measure shall contribute to ensuring that the foreigners concerned are available for rapid processing and return, and that is to prevent a situation in which persons, in cases where the possibility of processing asylum applications can be refused, shall disappear after arrival in Norway. This is not, of course, for reasons other than that, but in individual cases one with current legislation will have to demonstrate a concrete avoidance hazard. It is now considered a sufficient condition that it is likely that the asylum application will be rejected for treatment, in itself to be considered as an avoidance hazard. The exceptional and serious situation requires political authorities to have a completely different control and management of practices from what was needed at the time of the development of current legislation. The Ministry should therefore be empowered to intervene and ensure that UNE does not develop any practice other than that resulting from the UDI instructions of the Department as regards, inter alia, the case. understanding and understanding of the law. It is therefore proposed that the Department should be able to instruct UNE in the same way as the UDI. I have registered that there are more people who are sceptical of that change, among others. having regard to the importance of having a proper second-stage treatment. Secondary treatment will continue to be equally sound. It is such that in all administrations one should always deal with both international conventions and administrative principles, and that one gives an opportunity to instruct on the framework of the activities of the administrative body is not, in itself, a restriction on the independence of the Board of Appeal in each case. It's not about instructing in individual matters, but in law and discretion, among other things. The proposed changes will facilitate rapid returns and free up capacity throughout the asylum chain. Spending time and resources on asylum seekers who do not have a need for protection steals capacity and weakens confidence in the asylum system. So it's true, as Lysbakken said, that we've looked at historical figures that there's a relatively high proportion of people who get granted asylum in Norway. There is now a situation that can change due to the fact that the asylum flow of acids has fallen in proportion to other groups that normally have a higher rejection rate. That's why it's a picture that can draw itself completely different from the one we have now, than what's been the case a relatively short time ago. If the legislative proposals are implemented, we will be better able to deal with those asylum seekers who actually have a need for protection. I would also like to stress that the government will continue to assess further measures beyond what is announced in the additional number and which is proposed here, according to what development requires. An important element in this picture is also the action taken by other countries, which may affect the flow to Norway. Of course, we will follow this closely. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the UNE academics have made contact with the Department and note that the mention of their hearings at the last sentence of point 4.6 of the Proposition can be seen as positive to a general instructional access for the Department of the United Nations. That's not the case. The academics of the UN have given a positive opinion, was an authority of the Department to instruct primarily in housing cases, assumed groundless asylum cases, Dublin cases and other refusals to deal with asylum cases under Section 32. I therefore note that the issues we are discussing in particular today, i.e. issues of refusing to deal with reality under Section 32 of the Act, were among the issues in which the academics supported a proposal on access to instruction for the ministry. Then I also want to say that we register the impatience that, among other things. The representative Gahr Støre spoke from the pulpit, and we take with us the six recordings that Gahr Støre makes. This is, to a large extent, input that the government has already started working on. We have a continuous review of legislation to see if there is legislation that needs to be amended as a result of this situation. There may be procedural and other legislation. It may also be linked to legislation as regards the powers of the government to implement any measures. It's in case we come back to Stortinget with in the appropriate way. It's an interesting input to consider ambulatory handling teams. We are now working on completely new procedures and cooperation procedures between the various actors to ensure that these matters are dealt with as effectively as possible. Combining the effective procedure with effective returns is essential for us to succeed in controlling the flow of asylum. Of course, a work has also been started – if the Stortinget implements these legislative changes – to ensure the necessary access to premises, accommodation facilities in the north, so that, as far as possible, people who do not get their case can be accommodated after they have come from Russia. As regards the appropriations for the UDI, the Stortinget has now had to deal with both the additional proposal from the Government for the 2015 budget and the additional number for the 2016 budget. It takes some time to build capacity, but from the turn of the year, the UDI will be significantly strengthened on the procedural side so that they are significantly better able to handle the increased inflow that we have now had and that may continue, depending on the impact of the mitigation proposals. With regard to the proposal for the Workers' Party on evaluation after two years, I believe this is a good proposal. I think it's natural and in many ways necessary when one implements this kind of change, to get a proper review of what kind of effect and effect the proposals have actually had. If, in addition, there is a need for more — after the government has been asked to return to the Storting in two years with an evaluation and follow-up of an evaluation — and in advance concludes that these legal provisions should lapse over a certain period of time — the Storing itself must be assessed. I believe that there is reason to believe that the government will, of course, follow up the results of an evaluation against the Storting and promote the necessary proposals to be made if the evaluation is to show that repeal or amendment of the provisions is necessary. But it's a question that Stortinget can assess on its own. The representative Hareide raised many questions in his article. I will first confirm that the department is of course at its disposal to answer questions this week. I hope that Stortinget is trying to come up with the questions quickly, because the department and the expertise we have in this area are very busy, and in order for us to be able to give qualified answers, we need some time to develop it properly. So if we could get those questions as soon as possible, it would be appreciated by the department. However, I would like to touch on some of the issues raised by the representative Hareide. One was about the question of whether the amendment would lead to UNE not dealing with certain types of cases. It's not in the proposal as it is now. So this is the framework in which you can instruct. Today, the Department may instruct on the prioritisation of matters, with this proposal one could also use the same interpretation of law and the same basis of assessment in UNE as one in the UDI. As regards the question of whether the legislative proposal relating to the instruction of UNE will have any effect on the situation in Storskog, it may be considered that there will be disagreement between the first instance and the second instance related to whether Russia can be defined as a safe third country. It's obvious that it'll have an effect the way I see it, if you can give the same instruction to both UDI and UNE about, for example. that question. For those who have used third countries as fluctuation routes, it is our intention that we should help to do so as little as possible. Some of the points of some of these legislative changes are also to show that it should not be attractive to use Russia as a travel route to Norway. How concretely it will be handled and designed will be followed up in this instruction that the Ministry now has in preparation. So I just want to link some comments also to the representative Skei Grande's posts. She asked us to look at Sweden, which now has a reception of perhaps 120 000–150 000 so far this year, with the consequences it has, where the Swedish authorities have been very clear that this is no longer sustainable. If we have an image of arrival like what we see behind us now, i.e. with approx. 10 000 asylum seekers per month, there are 120 000 asylum seekers in 2016. That's the kind of picture we have to take over, that's the picture we have to be prepared to handle, that's the one we have to be prepared to prevent. And it's probably sad that the proportion of people who don't now have protection needs is increasing compared to what we've seen in the past, and that's very unfortunate. Then I fully agree with the representative of Skei Grande that it is necessary to have good dialogue with Russia. The government has put emphasis on this all the way. There has been a lot of dialogue, and will still be a lot of dialogue with Russian authorities. It will be the simplest and best way to resolve the situation across the border in Storskog, to come up with a good solution with Russian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e520	The civil war in Syria has driven millions of people away. Norway must take its share of the responsibility for people displaced from their homes, outside and at home, by accepting quota refugees and by respecting the institution of asylum. In order to provide protection to those who need it, it is also necessary to act consistently and to implement it at all times to those asylum seekers who do not require protection in Norway. The Labour Party supports the proposals put forward by the government to the Stortinget for rapid treatment, but there is reason to recall that, in existing legislation too, considerable efforts are being made to implement what really gives a clear signal to potential migrants — rapid rejection and rapid return. The law can be as tight as we want. It is the implementation and implementation of individual decisions that count. For example, if capacity is not built, new prison homes will be worthless. Get people and houses to handle this. The proposal has little or no indication of the economic and practical consequences of the proposal. Today, when the Storting joins the proposed legislative changes, the government has a great responsibility to rig up capacity at the same pace as the Stortingen case, so that the rapid laws take effect when they come into force. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice in this debate to explain the status of the establishment of an International Foreign Office or equivalent accommodation capacity in Finnmark. When will it actually be in place? I also ask him to explain what is now being done to mannify East-Finnmark property rights and other relevant courts and to ensure sufficient resources in UDI and PU. The Government proposes to remove the condition that applicants for asylum must receive an application for protection processed on return to third countries. The government points out that today's rule extends beyond our human rights obligations. The proposal has not been subject to consultation and has been very little discussed and exemplified in the proposal, but it must be the proposal that must be considered to have the greatest relevance to the situation in Storskog today. On the part of the Workers' Party, it is a prerequisite for our support for the proposal that it lies within our international obligations relating to the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, as expressed in the Proposition. The basic condition for rejecting an asylum application and returning the applicant to a country where he has previously resided is that it must be safe to return the applicant to the third country in question. Furthermore, it is a condition that the non-refoulement principle of the Refugee Convention should be respected, i.e.: protection against being passed on to a country or an area where there is persecution. With that clarification, the Labour Party supports the proposal. There is also a reason to stress at this point that the effect of the amendment of the law depends both on a bilateral agreement with Russia to take back people who have stayed there and on the government’s rigging sufficient capacity to follow up. The strongest means of action in the proposal is the new home to internalise asylum seekers when there is a likelihood that the application will be rejected. Seizure and imprisonment of persons who have done nothing wrong but seek asylum in Norway is a very interventional measure. Among the people who are interned, there will be people who are in a very difficult situation. This consideration must be balanced against a situation in which many asylum seekers come to Norway without a basis for residence. It is in the interests of the proposal that it is designed with a number of limitations, exceptions and clarifications regarding detention. Summary: The home meal is an intervention that we are in favour of today's situation. The government must have clear arrangements for implementation, accommodation and adequate resources in the UDI, in the police, with regard to watchkeeping, and in the courts concerned. The proposal to give the government general authority of instruction to UNE was examined in 2010 and is the only part of this bill that has been the subject of consultation. The committee that investigated and endorsed this highlighted the greater possibility of political governance, faster processing, economic efficiency and the faster establishment of consistent practices as arguments for instructional authority. Legal certainty and legitimacy may be contested. However, the working party considers that, in the light of an overall assessment and in the light of today’s situation, with exceptional arrivals, it is appropriate to provide the basis for the UN to be instructed. It allows for faster delivery of control signals if the situation so requires. For the Workers' Party, it is a central premise that the freedom of instruction should not be possible at individual level, but with instructions that will, of course, have an impact on individual cases. It is a little difficult to see how this measure will have an immediate impact on inflows. The cases shall be dealt with by UDI before any appeals are brought by UNE. The Minister of Justice exemplified in his speech that it could have involved the assessment of Russia as a safe country. I expect that when the government asks for this home, it is because they want to benefit from that home in the current situation, and therefore I ask the Minister of Justice to clarify and be a little more specific than what he was in his post – whether he has an instruction clear, and what kind of effect it is expected to have, as they have asked for that home in this rapid treatment in Stortinget. I would also like to stress that the government and the Council of State are constitutionally responsible for the instruction given to UNE, and are therefore also more responsible for the UN conclusions. And that is the responsibility of the government to ensure, through instructions, that the institution of asylum is respected within the framework of international conventions and the Foreign Affairs Act. So to the proposals: the Labour Party proposal has been called for. I would first like to say that the Workers' Party will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party that the amendments be made temporarily until 1 January 2018. I will then address the revised proposal of the Workers' Party, which takes account of two years of temporaryity, so that the proposal of the Workers' Party then reads: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy with an evaluation of the legislative changes in two years due to the short deadline and the lack of consultation. This evaluation must allow for a consultation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e553	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e556	The aim of the proposal is to address the situation in Storskog and to prevent people from coming to Norway without any need for protection. Although there is an exceptional situation, we need to carefully assess the instruments and measures that need to be implemented in order to achieve the result we want. We also need to identify and assess whether the measures can have undesirable consequences, and this should be clarified for the second time. The matter has not been at the hearing, and it has not been possible to ask clarifying questions to the Ministry in advance, but the Christian People's Party is in favour of the intention of the proposition and will today vote for the proposals. But the Christian People's Party will keep the possibility open to evaluate the individual measures, and we may be able to vote differently at second reading. With regard to the UN Commanding Authority, this is a matter that has been carefully assessed in the past, and the conclusion has been that the Department should not be given the authority to instruct in asylum cases because the legitimacy, trust and independence of the body would be impaired. The proposal is therefore far-reaching, and the only reason for this is that the government wants more political control. However, immigration policy should be governed by law, regulation and not by instructions from complaints bodies. A sample has now been set up to assess the use of specialised courts, including whether UNE should be replaced by an administrative court. The Christian People's Party is therefore reluctant to support this proposal today, also because it will be considered later, possibly through an evaluation or time limit of the law. With regard to returns to third countries, the applicable right to refuse to process applications where the applicant: ‘have travelled to the State after having resided in a country or area where the foreigner was not persecuted and where the foreigner will receive an application for protection processed’. The government is now proposing to delete the last joint sentence. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a reliable assessment of the need for protection in order to verify whether the applicant will be persecuted in the country to which he is sent. Because the third paragraph of Section 73 of the Foreign Affairs Act does not allow you to return to a country where there is a risk of persecution. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party will support this proposal, subject to the amendment that only persons who actually have a residence permit in a third country or who are nationals of another country and do not have a need for protection can be denied substantive treatment. In the case of compulsory notification and specific place of residence, the Government proposes to extend the residence of the persons who may be subject to a specific place of residence and notification. It is proposed that persons who have been denied substantive treatment or who are most likely to be denied substantive treatment may be required to notify and determine their place of residence. This also applies to minors and applicants who have children who are minors. The Christian People's Party sees that there can be good reasons to give the authorities such control over Storskog, and the obligation to report and order a specific place of residence is a minor intervention and will not lead to the same degree of detention. So we can support that point. In the case of apprehension and imprisonment, the Government proposes to extend the funds for when asylum seekers can be deprived of liberty. Today, there are already well-known grounds for apprehending and detaining asylum seekers, including those seeking asylum. in the event of a risk of avoidance, when no cooperation is required to clarify their identity or when no notification is required or where a specific place of residence is required. Detention is a major intervention against individuals. The usual procedure should have been carried out with consultation and more thorough investigation on this issue. The Christian People's Party is therefore inquiring about this proposal and wants in particular answers to two questions: What cases will be covered by Section 105, and what cases will be covered by Section 106? How does the proposal for the EU Return Directive address Article 15 in view of the fact that imprisonment for the purpose of carrying out a return can only take place if there is a risk of avoidance or a counter-return? Storskog is Norway's only border within the Schengen Agreement, and it is therefore important that we have clarified that issue. Section 107 of the Foreign Affairs Act regulates the location and operation of international foreign exchange, today Trandum. Persons deprived of freedom on a foreign legal basis shall, as a general rule, be placed there. Here the Government proposes that accommodation should be ensured in a border area to facilitate a rapid and less resource-intensive process. Therefore, the government proposes to amend Section 107, so that those being apprehended and imprisoned are, as a general rule, to be accommodated in the rest of the world or in another specially arranged place of accommodation. The Christian People's Party believes that such an alternative would not be favourable and would not be regulated by Section 107. However, the Ministry suggests that the rules for § 107 third to eighth paragraphs apply as far as they apply. An important consequence of this will be that power and power can be used by the police. Alternative accommodation sites must be specifically arranged for this use, i.e.: reception services with limited security and control systems and not opening up for the use of prisons or other facilities used in criminal law. The Christian People's Party can therefore support this proposal, as the ministry has outlined. As regards the exit period in Section 90 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which refers to the time limit for the foreigner to leave the country, it is usually seven to thirty days. The Ministry suggests that if an application has been rejected under § 32, i.e. that the applicant has asylum or any other form of protection in another country, or has resided in a country or an area where there was no persecution, it shall be subject to the exceptional circumstances provided for in Section 90. This means that you can set a shorter time limit or no time limit at all. The Christian People's Party also supports this proposal. The Christian People's Party will support the Workers' Party's proposal for evaluation that can shed light on many of the things we are now putting into action. The council made an article here that gave us some useful additional information, and I also thank for the transparency that was given here from the pulpit in order to be able to answer the questions that we had to raise at this stage. Then, hopefully, the law's limitation will be limited to up to two years, and then we'll have time to evaluate this matter along the way. The Christian People's Party looks forward to further treatment – especially when we come to settlement and integration, where we have many good suggestions associated with today's treatment of the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e592	The refugee situation affects us all, both the international crisis and the challenges we are now facing in Europe, also in Norway. It is demanding to deal with the increase in the number of asylum seekers that is now the international backstop, and we are not least aware that in Europe there are countries with significantly greater challenges than Norway, including our neighbouring country Sweden, which has recently received four times as many as Norway. The refugee crisis must be resolved through cooperation with other countries. This is also true of the situation we see in particular in Storskog. The border with Russia is part of our common external border in Schengen, which Norway is responsible for managing. We have to get control of it. We need to reduce the flow of groundless asylum seekers who are now crossing the border of Russia. Therefore, the Left supports actions that contribute to addressing that challenge. At the same time, it is essential that we maintain talks with Russia and would like to involve other Schengen members in that dialogue. Without a solution with Russia, the full impact of the measures proposed will be difficult to achieve. For the Left, it is important to give priority to measures that will limit the number of groundless asylum seekers in Storskog. An exceptional situation also requires exceptional measures. At the same time, these measures must stand up to the European and international conventions on which we are bound, including the EMC and the Refugee Convention. The situation in Storskog has provided the basis for today’s exceptional legislative process. However, the left does not believe that the proposal on UNE’s instructional authority is an answer to the current challenges we are looking at Storskog. The proposal is justified by the need for faster clarification and more policy governance of the foreign field. It is a bit ironic that in a law case that has been dealt with at express speed in Stortinget, arguments for the need for faster clarification than it was possible to do by law or regulation. The size shows today both the will and the ability to turn around when the situation requires it. It is assumed that the ministry also has a similar ability and willingness to deal with regulations quickly where the situation so requires. For hearing bodies, a short period of consultation in the context of an expeditious regulatory procedure would be a difference in substance from no right of consultation, as is the case in the case of instructions. And let me stress that the Hearing Officer is not here for the Hearing Officers, but for us as legislators to have the broadest possible decision-making basis. The Ministry points out in its proposal that the proposal is based mainly on the proposal of the so-called Mæland Committee and their investigation New appeal procedure for foreign affairs, from 2010. It is true that the Melandics Committee opened the way for the extension of the UN-instruction authority, but a reservation was made on asylum cases. The committee considered that protection assessments are in a special position and that the political space for action is very limited. The right to asylum is governed by law and governed by international conventions. Assessment of the granting of refugee status does not imply any form of free administrative separation and there is no room for political considerations such as immigration regulatory considerations. Therefore, the Mæland Committee did not recommend giving the Department an instruction authority in the field of asylum. In the government's proposal, however, I feel that it is precisely in the asylum field that someone now wants an instruction authority. Today’s debate indicates that this proposal is also part of the management of the situation in Storskog, while the proposition mentions a more general need for political governance and more rapid clarification. If only the situation in Storskog is the background to the proposal, it should be limited to the situation. As has now been presented, the proposal is considerably more extensive and far-reaching than the situation in Storskog requires. UNE is today an independent complaint body. The proposition concludes that UNE will be independent after the imposition of an instructional authority. The left is in doubt and fears that there will no longer be a real two-way procedure. Furthermore, it is worrying that the procedure applicable to regulation and drafting does not apply by instructions. The proposal for instructions is not made available at the hearing of the relevant bodies and the basis for the decision is not as broad. Nor do we get an informative public debate in advance. The proposal also includes policy management of actual assessments of the safety situation in different countries. At present, there is a thorough professional assessment on the basis of which countries, for example, it is considered safe to return to. These are difficult assessments, where we need good processes in advance, and the Left has already called for the establishment of common Nordic land information in order to streamline, coordinate and enhance the quality of assessments. Furthermore, there is a need for cooperation with other countries. The left, however, sees the need for political governance through law and regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e616	It's in critical situations that we need principles the most. This is why, among other things: refugee rights governed by international conventions guaranteeing fundamental rights. It is important that they be followed even in situations where it is difficult. Now many people are on the run, many countries are shutting the refugees out and leaving behind taking responsibility. It is a dangerous situation, especially for refugees, but also for countries that have quite legitimate needs to know who is living in the country, and for those who do not need protection to leave quickly. I just want to add, so that no one misunderstands this, that SV pays more on return than the government does in its draft budget. Because the situation is so difficult — and was so difficult last year — the government asked last autumn to take the initiative to change the Dublin system before it collapsed, to get a better sharing of responsibilities just to ensure that what has now happened should not happen — namely, that countries do not stamp passports — in order to avoid getting responsibility for asylum treatment and for other countries returning to this border state. Now there are a large number of people in Schengen who are not registered anywhere. That's not good. In fact, it makes every country's legitimate need for control difficult, and it is a fact that can create population insecurity and whip up hostile moods against asylum seekers and immigrants in general, now that we need to stand together to establish a 'we' between all of us common, peaceful people living in Europe, and those who have to escape here just because they want to live a life without bombs banging and people being arbitrarily killed every single day, as in Syria. The government did not follow this advice. They waited and then. They had the same waiting-and-see attitude when everyone understood what was happening in southern Europe, that many asylum seekers would have to come to Norway at some point, because there were so many of them. to Germany and Sweden. Red Cross set a crisis loss in August. Such a situation has been managed, it has become very chaotic, which could have been subdued by greater power of action on the part of the government. This is the general situation. It was hardly anyone who could predict what happened in Storskog – there is a slightly different situation. But when the situation there was a fact, the government was also late in establishing the necessary personnel to deal with the situation — something more other representatives have been involved. Proposals for additional appropriations were made. The size plus more than the government asked, so the government could handle the situation better. I myself have asked the government about, but still have not received an answer, what NRK Finnmark reported on 11 November 2015 that a Norwegian border inspector claims that in official meetings the Russian authorities have proposed a solution that could prevent many asylum seekers from coming to the border of Storskog without protection grounds. It remains to be seen whether this results in correctness. If it has been known to the Norwegian authorities and has taken up meetings, what has been Norway’s response, and why has it not been followed up? There is a need for urgent action to address the situation, and the measures must be well-founded and meet the urgent needs of the government in order to address the situation in order to take care of both Norway and asylum seekers. Basic legal certainty and obligations and principles of international law must be established. Changing general laws that may have far-reaching consequences in a chaotic situation, without the possibility of comitology, without the possibility of consultation, without the possibility of questioning, is not good. As far as I know, it hasn't happened before – at least not after the war. So why this haste in three days when we've had many weeks on it? If one more week had been spent on Stortinget, I am quite sure that it had not made the situation significantly different for the government, which has had plenty of time to make suggestions before. It is not clear that this is imperative. With regard to the individual proposals, it is precisely in § 32d that we find the core of the right to asylum – the right to promote an application and to have it actually dealt with. The amendments proposed could exclude this right for persons who are or have been residing in a third country. They are not to have their application evaluated in Norway, and we remove from this amendment the requirement that they will be able to have their application evaluated where they are sent. This means, as SV understands, that there is no guarantee of the non-refoulement principle that third countries cannot return the applicant to a country where he may be subjected to persecution and torture. We no longer provide a guarantee that he/she has the opportunity to process his/her asylum application in the country to which it is returned. In addition, this may increase the number of people who are at risk of becoming what is termed ‘refugees in orbit’ in the professional language, namely people who are sent from country to country without being treated for their asylum application. As I said – this goes to the heart of the right of asylum, and we do not think it should be shaken. This could apply to people we now send back to Russia, and like, for example, may be returned to Syria from Russia. It was precisely in such a case Russia was convicted in the EMC at the latest this fall. Therefore, we believe that the law as it is now formulated does not set clear enough boundaries against such a case. How are you going to ensure the effective protection that the proposition says you have to ensure, with the wording you now have? Of course, those who have safe residence in a third country, even double citizenship, are quite OK to return. After what's reported in the media, there seems to be a lot of people who get over Storskog, who have it like this. They have no problem sending them back. During the weekend, we have tried to look at an alternative legal text that we believe could meet both the need we have to return more people without full proceedings, and uphold the principle of having their application processed in one country. For example, a word could be used. have been:... has permanent residence in a country and an area where the foreigner claims not to have been persecuted. We have expressed great dissatisfaction with the proceedings in this case precisely because one is not given the opportunity to enter and quality assurance and ask questions or evaluate these intervening points for a long time. Promoting a proposal on the table here today to an alternative legal text that has not been subject to any necessary treatment has made us choose not to do so this time. But I think there are legal wordings that could have covered what the government needs, and that could give better security to those who are now, with the provision being promoted, could risk not having their asylum application dealt with anywhere. With regard to the UN Commanding Authority, which is opposed by SV, there have been many good interventions against it and why this should not be done. Today it is such that the government can instruct UNE by law through landfill treatment. Today we treat a law, and it even goes very quickly. It would have been a much better procedure if the government had made a proposal as to what they specifically want for kind of change, and that we could have had a legal process of it, so that we had a certainty as to what it is you intend to use this provision for. At that time, we had not moved by a system that is today to maintain a seaworthy position in the appeal proceedings in the foreign affairs. I am very surprised that the government, when they have an agreement that says that they should go in the opposite direction, namely to set up a Board of Appeal in the foreign court that should be more court-like, in this case goes in the opposite direction. If you can instruct in facts, it will clearly affect individual matters. That's why you do it. So when you say that you can't go into the individual cases, there's a truth with quite big modifications, precisely because these facts will be the basis for assessing the individual cases. Assessing which countries it is safe or unsafe to return people, SV believes, should be based on a professional assessment that is not a day-to-day assessment based on political business cycle — it must be evidence-based. The desire to ensure that asylum seekers actually leave without need of protection is entirely legitimate. Therefore, it is possible to understand the needs of the changes proposed in Sections 105 and 106. The obligation to notify and to provide a specific place of residence is not such an intervention that it is unreasonable to use it. It can be used both before and after the matter is settled, and especially if it takes longer than a few days to get back. SV believes that this instrument should be more effective than today and therefore supports these changes. In the case of § 106 and the possibility of internalising persons who have done nothing but promote an unjustified asylum application, we have been in doubt. The representative Lightbaking said in his post that we have assessed this back and forth. We want to be able to ask the government questions until Thursday and get answers that can clarify some of the concerns we have with this. Because there is a very interventional response, and it is completely unclear how it will be implemented — whether it is feasible at all in a short time. That's why there's also reason to think about why it's so urgent when this place you're going to use, obviously not yet there and you haven't hired the people who are going to be there. I consider it a matter of course that Stortinget needs to get answers to these questions – that there is a minimum of compliance we have to expect in such a situation. If it is the case that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy for a temporaryity for these provisions, SV may vote in the first round, but it should be borne in mind that we can change our position on these paragraphs, up to the second reading on Thursday, depending on what answers we receive from the Council of State that can assure us that this is necessary and feasible and does not conflict with any important principles that we have to observe even in very demanding situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e650	The previous post by the representative Andersen forces an immediate question: is SV going to vote for or against the bill today? I understood it this way on Andersen's posts – that was also what made me sign up for the debate – on the party leader and representative Lysbakken, and perhaps also in the same direction on the representative Tuskedal, that it was supposed to have a real new discussion on Thursday. That's not an option. What will be available on Thursday is exactly the wording that Stortinget adopts today. If you do not vote in favour of it at the second reading or if you have comments, it goes to a third reading in plenary. So I have to ask Andersen the representative about what SV's position is here, because it's clear that if they vote in favour of the law, that's okay, then they're in on it, and if not, these verbal reservations will have no meaning. So it's not an à la carte menu that you can freely supply. I also hear – it is also an impression from the debate – that the Workers' Party has accused the government of a lack of prediction about the influx of Storskog. I think that is a rather striking position, considering the Workers' Party's own contribution to raising what is called a 'pull' factor, that is, sending signals to the rest of the world that a country is particularly willing to accept asylum flows. If you go to the Workers' Party's website – which is otherwise not up-to-date for the later events – you will still see that the main initiative of the Workers' Party throughout the spring session was to provide the country with 10,000 Syrian refugees. I could also imagine, since I see the Group leader of the Workers' Party is here in the Chamber, to hear how he believes that decision stands. I would also like to say something about Norway's position in this. Norway is therefore a party to a number of agreements aimed at guaranteeing individual rights, regardless of their situation, and we are also to contribute to international compliance. The refugee convention is one of these. This does not mean, however, that this is a subject which is thereby exempted from national law. The democratic institutions of a country can determine the design of the solutions, and we also have the national right to balance the right of asylum against competing fundamental interests, which must be weighed in the same plan. I would say that the present proposal provides some of the answers, in a more restrictive direction, which respond to our need to exercise national sovereignty, and as part of gaining control over – at least decrease – the influx across our borders. Some points need to be repeated in the debate, especially after having heard some of the speeches today, in order to gain a realistic understanding that the Stortinget has a rather limited freedom of action. The previous speeches were on the table. I would mention as the first and most important that refugee and asylum law cannot be invoked as a general requirement for immigration to another country. The right to asylum is an individual right which cannot be collectively exploited by a group or population, nor can it be promoted as a group requirement. So it can only be justified and granted individually. The second misunderstanding is that, in principle, EEA and EU States are less entitled to border controls than other countries. Control over a defined territory is precisely a characteristic of state sovereignty and, at its core, also involves sovereign control of border crossings. The European agreements at EU level, EEA level and Schengen are all based on this basic principle. This is reflected in the Schengen Agreement by the fact that individual countries have the right to prevent or take into account their own security by derogating from the normal system of free movement between the Contracting States. In addition, it is essential for the agreed internal freedom of travel between Schengen countries to respect the external border. So here we are in the situation that all Schengen cooperation is also based on the fact that each national State asserts its sovereignty, not just on a national matter, but on the responsibility it has assumed over the other Schengen Signatory Acts. I also remind you that our own foreign law – since we have been to the foreign law here today – § 14 and not least § 17 on expulsion are based on this principle. The last moment I want to mention before this debate comes to an end is that the right of refugees to immediate protection in the first safe country. As a result, the status of asylum will normally have been lost by further travel to other safe countries. It is a misunderstanding to believe that safe countries are only in the EEA/EU territory – there are safe countries outside. Norway will, for the most part, be the first country of arrival and will then be able to set up its asylum policy. In this case, it is not the fulfilment of international obligations, but the fulfilment of what is a unified policy in this driving room, and then, of course, it is the national freedom of action that has been expressed somewhat more than some today, because it is also the Stortinge which, on behalf of the country, exercises sovereignty through the government and the responsible department.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e667	I'll first do a little observation. I record that the three parties that spend the most time in this debate had 13.9 p.m. digestion at previous choice, but they have used 70 pst. of the speaking time. So it's obvious that they have a lot on their hearts, but you can do a little reflection on it. All of us sitting here are given administrative responsibility. We have administrative responsibility for our voters, and we've had four years to manage this country. It's a great honor and a great mission. So it is then our duty to leave us a better country four years after we were elected. I don't think that's what we're about to do after two years. I see a country that we can't partly control. Not everything is our fault, but we haven't done what we should and could have done to avoid the evolution we're now seeing. We are discussing the interpretations and principles of the Foreign Affairs Act, based on a 1951 refugee convention that has expired long ago, which was established after World War II to give Jews a safe home and to give dissidents behind the Iron Curtain the opportunity to gain freedom in Europe. But we treat it as if there is – as the representative Tetzschner was in it – the opportunity to have a collective stay in Europe. Then, of course, it is only about Europe. It is also quite strange when there are safe countries all over the globe – South America, Latin America, Asia; many, many countries that are much larger than Europe combined can also be a base for this. But it's not being discussed. Last week, 2,503 asylum seekers – if I got that number correctly – came to Norway. The representative Lighthouse said it was very few. Yeah, that's very few compared to 60 million. It almost means nothing to the 60 million. But in Norwegian it's very much. 2 503 times 52 is approximately. 130 000. If there are as many refugees as last week for one year to come, there will be 130 000 in one year. There's 1,500 more than it lives in Stavanger City. There are many people, and it is a responsibility that we take on as representatives of this big business. What if one were to see a development in the rest of the Middle East and Africa as the one we now see in Syria and Iraq? It is not unthinkable that we can have civil wars, for example. in Yemen, which creates thousands, hundreds of thousands, of refugees. What about Mali – hundreds of thousands, millions, of refugees? What about Nigeria, which has 120 million people estimated to be 750 million over the next 50 years -- 75, maybe? With civil war in Nigeria, there may be 50-100 million refugees. Should we apply the same principles to them if they want to come to Europe, and why not? Why not – have we thought through that idea, or are we leaving it to the next four years and the next representatives of the Stortinget, who are going to face that kind of challenge? Do we not also have a responsibility as representatives here in the future? Or are we concerned about just this one matter now, and then we're going to get rid of a good gold pension when we're done here, and let someone else tire with the consequences our decisions get for the next generation, our children and grandchildren? Today's asylum system has expired. Without advertising my own book, I mention that I included a new asylum system in my book that came out a year and a half ago. It is a part of Europe that is discussing this now, namely the establishment of asylum institutions, asylum reception systems, outside Schengen. This would mean that anyone who thought they were refugees or who felt persecuted would be able to be transported to such asylum recipients outside Schengen and have their applications processed there. Then you would avoid any drowning, any accident you could be carried there from the neighbouring countries where there is now war or civil war. At the same time, it would mean that those seeking better economic welfare would not be on such an asylum reception pending a refusal of an application. At such an asylum reception, identical criteria would be used for asylum. It will be funded by the UN through the UN funding key. The reception of those granted asylum shall be distributed among the safe member countries of the United Nations. In this way, Europe is taking its share of refugees that are relevant and appropriate for our size of about 500 million people, instead of appearing today as if we were the whole planet alone. Another consequence of the proposal that I launched, and which I know the Minister of Justice is that all Foreign Affairs Directorates in all countries can stop. It is in itself quite an event that, if an asylum claim is requested, or if an asylum application is requested to be dealt with in one of Europe's countries, it is immediately transported to asylum recipients outside Schengen and its application is dealt with safely there. In other words, Foreign Affairs Directorates can be laid down, at least in relation to the asylum process, in all countries. Of course, those who are to deal with these asylum applications — case handlers in Norway and other countries — can apply for jobs in such centres to provide for the bureaucratic and more practical regulation of the system. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have to look forward, think long-term, not short-term, think about consequences for our children and grandchildren and stop calling each other names, but actually see what we're doing on our own country – without appearing to be better than others or worse than others, or accusing others of having other intentions than protecting our own country and our own people. That's the administrative responsibility we got two years ago. It is our responsibility to the Norwegian people. We were not given any responsibility to manage global developments; we were given responsibility to manage Norway. We are now failing that responsibility, all as one in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e690	Today's situation calls for tightening. I want to start by commending the government that that's exactly what they are now, in a quick way, submitting to the Storting. I would also like to commend the Stortinget, who, quickly, with an overwhelming majority, ensures that we are able to put in place a quick handling of this matter, but also the tightening up that is now necessary. It is free to come to Norway, but it is not necessarily free to stay here. Today's situation calls for us to also be able to be tight, precisely to secure the asylum institution for those who actually need that protection. The current situation suggests that there are far more than those who need protection, who come to our country, and it is important that we uphold the principles of the rule of law and human rights. I believe many of us, like the people out there, are able to have the national political leadership that is able to balance just a fair rigour and a roughness, and also to take care of and develop the naivety with which we are all now striving, so that we ensure that the principles of the rule of law and human rights are respected. It is demanding, but it also calls for national leadership. That's why we're here. It is important that we ensure the asylum institution for those who really need protection. Now, the situation is, it's just for those who need protection, that this is devastating. I have listened to the debate. The vast majority of those who have spoken have spoken of tightening up and have been accepted by the Institute of Asylum. In addition, in parallel with this case, we have a government budget for treatment and an additional number presented to Stortinget. We have also received the various partial proposals for tightening up the field. It is not just this case that will deal with measures that are necessary to ensure both those who need protection and to guide those who need a better life but who are not going to stay in Norway. I hear from some of the posts that the representatives have had, that these are kind of signals vis-à-vis the Norwegian people and to those who have already come to our country. But it's equally important that we also out to the world abilities to say that it's not carte blanche coming to Norway. It is for those who need and need asylum and who need thorough and proper treatment. That is why I would also like to draw attention to another matter, which lies in the municipal committee, where the position was taken before the weekend, and where I am asking that, in particular, the Workers’ Party – and many more, it is not a majority in the case – assess its position on this matter that asylum seekers coming to our country should get work right away. Today, asylum seekers should be allowed to do so if they have been through the asylum interview, have been involved in clarifying their identity and have reached the age of 18, but in the text of the proposition before the weekend, these restrictions are not included. It's a signal out to the world that I think is to throw blues in the eyes of people. It can quickly create what in good Norwegian is called a 'pull' effect, that we invite to our country and to a labour market that I believe is not ready to accept all those who would have to deal with their asylum application – but rather to the black market. No one deserves it. Then I would like to mention some of the points that lie in the tightening proposed by the government, especially with regard to the instruction authority. Indeed, today’s opportunities for governance towards the UN do not meet the current need for rapid clarifications or the need for political governance in the foreign field that today’s exceptional situation, with large numbers of arrivals, warrants. I am therefore very pleased – as suggested by the government – that the Department should have the same instruction authority to UNE as it already has to UDI. A level playing field with these two will be able to ensure equal treatment of individual cases more quickly, which is also an important element of legal certainty for asylum seekers and for those in need of protection. Political direction of the immigration field shall continue preferably through law and regulation. It is important to uphold that principle, but sometimes it is necessary for political leadership to be able to say that the situation is now different and exceptional. Where the law and international conventions provide room for interpretation or discretion, it must also be possible to govern UN through instruction rather than waiting for clarification through law and regulation. Sometimes we don't have time to wait for this. The situation has now been this way. It will provide rapid clarification of practices, which in turn will lead to greater predictability for individuals. In this case, there is also a reference to some aspects of the refusal to deal with asylum applications in substance. In this area, I have seen that the government now wants to make it easier for the foreign authorities not to deal with an asylum application and to return foreigners who have been living in safe third countries. For people out there, I think it's very understandable. We will help those who do not have that opportunity and do not have the opportunity to return to a safe third country – but if they do, there must be the opportunity to point the trip back. If an asylum seeker has resided in a country or an area in which he was not persecuted, there is today a condition in the law that he will receive his application for protection processed in that country after return, in order that Norway may refuse to deal with that very request for asylum. I think it is useful clarification that the government is proposing to remove this condition, and that it will refuse to deal with the asylum application – and return him to the safe state, without ensuring that he/she is treated there. It is sufficient that he is safe to return. I think that the revised proposal of the Workers' Party, by Helga Pedersen, that the ‘calling on the government to return to the Grand Duchy, due to the short deadline and the lack of consultation, with an evaluation of the legislative changes in two years’, and that this ‘evaluation must provide room for consultation’, is a wise proposal, and thus also provides an opportunity to look at the effects of what we are doing today and to gather the experience. But so far, in today's debate, I believe that we have shown a willingness both to care for those who really need protection and to show the way for those who should not, in a faster and more effective way than what is being done today – while as a nation, we enforce our complacency and fair rigour with regard to the international commitments that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e716	Let me first thank the Stortinget for a very good debate with many important reflections, and I think that is a good starting point. Once you have accepted to carry out such a rapid and effective treatment of this bill, which we are grateful for and very pleased with, I also think it is good to have the reflections made by a lot of people from the pulpit. This is not a very simple problem, and therefore I am also pleased with the reflected posts that have been. But I also want to say, since many have touched on many things other than what these legislative proposals deal with, that there is now a formidable effort out there to deal with a very, very demanding situation. It's a collaboration between the UDI, the DSB, the police, the aliens' unit, the statesmen, the municipalities, volunteers and many more, and they work more or less 24 hours a day to manage the arrival image that we have now, and I think they also deserve the tribute from this pulpit. It is true that it is sometimes more important to criticise the sitting government for not having done enough in time, than to acknowledge what is actually done, for what is done is incredibly much, and that has led us to manage a situation of arrival that is completely different from anyone – I dare say that claim – in this room thought only a few months ago. That is why I think it is also good that the Stortinget gathers to a great extent about these important measures, and it is very good that the Stortinget now also discusses the various proposals that the government has put into the supplementary number related to tightening up and a number of other proposals that have come to fruition. Then there are some specific questions that I'm going to try to answer as far as possible. I believe the representative Pedersen was concerned about what is now being done to ensure adequate accommodation in the north. This is now being considered, pending a possible legislative decision, in different places. It has not been suggested that these should be prison-like locations. That's why it's kind of formulated as it's done in the law, but they're now assessing different alternatives. When it comes to strengthening the jurisdiction, there is a question of how much there is a need to strengthen the jurisdiction. It depends on what kind of action you actually get after that provision. Of course, the court administration is informed of the work being done and there is also a three-day pre-production period. Then I think the representative Pedersen also asked about the instructions. The work on the instructions is in progress now, and it is our intention to ensure that the instructions can come into force at the same time as the implementation of these legislative changes, so that this work is under full pressure. So there are several people who have been involved in the question of UDI and presence in Storskog, among others. The Center Party was in on it. It was also mentioned that it is only to set up a return plane from the Kirkenes with departure almost at any time and landing in Kabul, Afghanistan, without further delay. I think most people know it's probably not that simple. If we are to get effective returns, we are also dependent on effective cooperation with the recipient country. It is a work that this government prioritises very high, so that we can dramatically increase the return rate in relation to what is happening today, to some of these countries. I also want to say that I think it is fantastic – I really didn't think I should experience it – that the representative Andersen, on behalf of SV, stresses the importance of effective returns. It also shows, I think, the importance that return as an instrument is given high priority in order to ensure the protection of the asylum institution, and I am very pleased that SV is now included. Noting it from Stortinget's pulpit to give it an extra weight from Andersen's side, I think it's very positive. Then, of course, I wish there was a focus that SV had had before, but it's better now, I think, than never. With regard to the question of § 32d, on which Andersen's representative was also involved, that provision goes beyond what the international conventions require of us, and that is why we can make this change. I would like to stress again – I think I mentioned it in my previous post – that those people who are essentially talking about here are people who do not initially need to deal with any asylum application in Russia. They already have a residence base in Russia that makes them not need to deal with any asylum application, as the situation is at that time. So Andersen also mentioned the warnings she came up with to take measures to prevent the collapse of the Dublin Agreement. What is the big challenge is that the Schengen Agreement has collapsed to a greater extent than that of the Dublin Agreement. The fact that the EU has not been able to handle its external borders, that they have not been able to register those entering Schengen, and still is not satisfactory, contributes to a very large migration flow. That is why the Great Forest issue is also important for Norway, because we have to show that we are able to deal with the Schengen external border, which is our border with Russia. We expect the EU and the other Schengen countries to control their external borders, and it is also important that we do what we can, among other things. these legislative changes to ensure our external Schengen border with Russia. The representative, Andersen, was once again aware that this is a development that you could have seen, and you could have prepared for it. I would like to say, even though I said it before, that I am really reacting very strongly to that claim, because in 2014 Europe had an increase in the influx of asylum – I think it was – 44 pst. In 2014, Norway had a reduction in the asylum inflow of about 4 pst. In the first six months of 2015, Europe continued to have dramatic growth in the number of arrivals, while correspondingly decreasing dramatically, in fact, in Norway at the same time. We have to deal with what we see in our own country, the framework for which we are responsible and the opportunity to influence, and therefore I think that criticism is very strange. But if you remember – without any kicks – how the political debate in this area was six months ago, it has taken a huge turn. We have much more recognised as societies the challenges that we saw Europe facing and that have now also become challenging in Norway. That is why I am very pleased that we have had this debate today, that it has been so good, and that it is so strong about the proposals that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e744	The debate should be relatively exhausted in terms of posts now, so I just want to make a explanation of vote, so that it is done. The Government Parties will support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, linked to an evaluation of legislative changes over two years, and that this evaluation must allow for a consultation. So the government parties have backed up on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e751	We should not open up a wide-ranging debate on the entire refugee and asylum policy in the world, to put it that way. The Minister of Justice said that the debate was different than six months ago. It was just supposed to be missing. Of course, in a world that has been changing, and where we have changed challenges, we need to have a debate that follows. That is why the Workers' Party is also open to – and voting for – these legislative amendments, for a basic principle must be that the legislative and regulatory framework is adapted to the situation and the challenges we face. I noticed that the representative Tybring-Gjedde believes that we live in a country that we do not have control of. It's speaking for a representative from a government party. I assume that this is an attitude that the Minister of Justice cannot stand up for. We're going to work to meet the challenges at the border, but I assume the government has control of the country. Then I would also reject the fact that the refugee convention had listed a special group of people to be protected, Jews and dissidents from the Eastern bloc. It must provide protection for people who are fleeing from persecution, unworthy treatment, war, torture, the death penalty and that kind of thing. It's a very important principle in the international community, which has made it more civilized, and then of course it's a tragedy that there are more people in such a category who experience those challenges. Then the world is going to discuss how to deal with the refugee situation, and I notice that the G20 Summit took this as one of its affairs this weekend and marked that this is a global phenomenon. Migration is a challenge for all countries, and so we have to meet it. I am a little surprised when we have a proposal by which the government asks the Stortinget to make decisions in a special way, that the representative Tetzschner then comes with a play – and we have heard it from some of the last days – which almost gives the National Assembly of the Labour Party responsibility for the arrival of refugees in Norway in the spring of 2015, because we then agreed that we should respond to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees' appeal to accept quota refugees from the area around Syria. One of his very sensitive messages was that if no country does, we can get an uncontrolled flow of refugees, and then the receiver breaks down, and it was a message that if the countries could receive about one per thousand, it could be a good thing for all the people who would never be able to return. At the seminar that the Foreign Affairs Committee organised for a full cinema a few weeks ago, leading Danish researchers said that one of the reasons why migration has become so strong is the lack of willingness in too many countries to accept quota refugees. Then I would like to remind you that Tetzschner's party, Right, was in the agreement of 8 000 refugees over three years, who gathered a very broad majority in this Chamber. And I still remember the Right parliamentary leader, who made a very good contribution at the end, saying that this was an agreement we could stand by and actually point out in Europe, and the Labour Party will continue to do so. Then it is that the great flow of refugees has brought great flows also far north of Europe, which is not very unexpected. It's worth remembering that other countries have far bigger challenges than what we have, but we're going to have to deal with both, in my opinion. I would also like to make a visit to the representative of Schou, who mentioned the issue of temporary work permits, and only remind and correct what was said there. The Labour Party is pleased that a unanimous increase less than a month ago joined a proposal to ask the government to reconsider the criteria for obtaining a work permit, in the light of the fact that having an asylum interview has gone so far in time. Therefore, I just want to say, we have not proposed a new principle, but to look at the criteria for implementing what is in force today. So it's not in any way talking about getting a work permit from day one. Saying it's a distortion of what's the situation, and we should stick to that for good. So I just want to sum up this discussion. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we will therefore be voting in favour of the proposals that the government is promoting. We believe that in the light of the short period of procedure, the exceptional situation, it is reasonable for the national Parliament to say, as Mr Pedersen's proposal suggests, that these proposals are evaluated – with consultation – over a period of two years. We also believe that it is reasonable for the national Parliament to say – as a security in the rule of law – that this is a temporary law of two years’ duration. It allows the Storting to make its assessments, make its adjustments during this period to get a law that after the two years is proportionate to the needs we have. I would therefore just like to repeat that the Labour Party will support these two proposals and otherwise vote in favour of what has been presented by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e784	I just need to make a few brief comments and also a small explanation of vote. I feel that this has been quite a broad debate. I think I also feel that the debate has partly been on many different topics that do not necessarily deal with today's legislative changes. I also find that natural – this is a theme that we are going to come back to in many contexts of the current session, but also in the years to come. In the case of all of us who may not have gone to the depths of questions about integration or some of those issues, it is necessary to know that there is another coming back. For the Central Party, it's important that in this situation, one side of the Party Act and the Rector and actually decides what it's right to be on of changes. We've thought that there's an advantage if a broad majority is behind the changes, and I'm glad that it seems to be a broad majority that supports the changes that are being proposed today. Then I have to say that I think it's a little bit petty that the right is taking the opportunity to come with the kind of little sticks to other games that they choose to do here. It is a little petty that the representative Tetzschner is starting to interfere with the agreement on the 8 000 quota refugees in the UN – not asylum seekers, but the quota refugees in the UN – that we agreed on this summer. Is it the 2,000 that lie between the 8 000 who attended – and the Labour Party’s national meeting – that is the problem of Tetzschner, or is it that the Right was at all in the agreement? I think the government parties could save themselves, in the somewhat extraordinary and quite serious situation that we are facing, with the changes in the laws that we are dealing with today. I would also like to point out to the Council of State that the Central Party has not referred to an air bridge to Kabul in any document 8 proposal, but in the case of transport facilities to countries from which people obviously do not have a right to stay and who should not be allowed to apply for asylum, we have pointed out that to those countries it should be assessed how they can be transported back. And that could apply to a number of other countries. So a little explanation of vote at the end: the centre party is going to go in for this law to apply temporarily for two years. As the proposal of the Christian People's Party has been promoted, it's a bit blatant. It can be interpreted as meaning that the parties voting for it would believe that this law should be repealed in two years' time. That's not necessarily the central part's position. The central party takes that position because we believe that the government should be given a clear call that if in two years' time it appears necessary to continue the law, a person will return to the Stortinget with an ordinary legislative proposal, which may undergo a thorough examination, both within the committee and through hearings. It is precisely the procedural aspects here that are very important for the Central Party, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal that the law be made temporarily in the first place. Then, in two years' time, we have to decide whether there is a basis for repealing the law or whether the law should be passed. In the event the government has to come back to Stortinget with a case of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e801	When it now appears that it is clear that there will be a majority in the Chamber to make the changes temporary, SV will vote in line with what I stated earlier today, i.e. vote in favour of the changes in Section 106, at least in this case, since the proposals have a temporary character. We think that is positive. We will still be voting against the two points that I have referred to earlier, where we are uncertain whether what we are doing is in line with the right of refugees, and where we believe that the government has taken unnecessary urgent action to make changes to UNE for which the government parties have long been in favour. Then I also had to sign for a brief comment to the Minister of Justice. I think it's a bit creepy in a situation where all the parties extend to get an emergency treatment, an emergency treatment the government asks for after a harvest where one has sold in so many areas, that one is met with such a harpsichording tone as that council had around SV's relation to return. The Minister of Justice knows very well that no parties in this Chamber are for free immigration – no parties in this Chamber are against return. SV promotes an alternative state budget where we propose more money to return than the Minister of Justice has achieved in his draft state budget. What the Minister of Justice has received criticism from SV for earlier this fall is the way the return policy is managed, with figures that have done – he can shake as much as he likes on his head, but I know SV's policy better than the Minister of Justice does – that many of those who should have been sent out as quickly as possible have not. So pretending to have a debate between someone who's too return of those who shouldn't be here, and someone who isn't, I think I'm bringing the debate to a low level. I also want to comment on the consideration of the Council of State that there has been a huge change in the debate. One can at least state that there has been no huge change in the role of the Progress Party in the debate. The Progress Party was little concerned with solidarity with the refugees in September and is little concerned about it in November. I would warn against taking the support that the government is now receiving on many points in the Storting, to the income of the worldview that the Progress Party government councils and big business representatives are constantly expressing. I still think that there is a strong solidarity with those who need protection, in the Norwegian population, and I still think it is a big problem that the Progress Party uses the power they have as a government party, to once again and again tell people how bad this is going, instead of showing that we can do it together. So when we vote in favour of some of the proposals today, I'm going to stand up for income so that it would represent some huge turnaround in the debate. It is about all of us being dedicated to limiting the number of people who do not need protection coming to Norway, so that we can help those who have protection needs. For the SV, we are today opposed to the various proposals put forward by the Progress Party, which will affect those in need of protection, and will ensure the integration of the people who will be here, as we were yesterday. Otherwise, I will join the criticism of the intervention by the representative Tetzschner, and there is actually a reprisal on the round we had with Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende last week. In a situation where the network thrives on conspiracy theories about the relationship between the National Labour Party meeting and the number of refugees coming to Norway, I think that the role of leading politicians should be to calm the mind, not to fire up under that kind of story.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e814	First, I need to say that the Storting will treat laws. There are many things we have to do, but we have a duty to treat legislative proposals properly. I believe that what we have witnessed now is on the verge of that, and I hope I will never experience it again as a magnificent representative. I believe that the government had had the opportunity to make this bill earlier, or that the Stortinget had been given the opportunity to at least a week's examination in committee. It would have been a much better and more prudent handling of the matter. That's what I say, and I'm not a lawyer. Not everyone in the Storting is, and one of the points of having a big deal is that we don't necessarily have to be lawyers all of them. But we have to have time to deal with matters properly. Audun Lightbakken responded well to this with return. The very specific matter in which we have strongly criticised the government concerned the treatment of the long-term asylum-seekers. The criticism we have raised against the government has been that return measures have been prioritised in the run-up to safe and good control as it began to go violently into the harvest with registration, but also that some of those that should be returned first, namely, heavy criminals, who are difficult to take, are down priorities because they are occupied by the number. This I record that the PU has also made public statements about it, and that is the criticism we have raised against the government. Like others, we believe that those who have not stayed should be returned as soon as possible, and we have, as I said, put it into our budgets. So Section 32d, which we're invited to change today. The Minister said in his speech that these are issues where there is no need for asylum treatment in Russia. But if that is the case, why do you remove the exact wording that says you should not return if there is uncertainty about the need for asylum treatment? That's the guarantee that you now remove from the law, and that's why we're going to go against this. Because it was precisely in view of that situation, in order to tighten this up, but at the same time to make sure that an asylum application will be dealt with in a third country under safe conditions, that I read in my article an alternative legal text that we could have considered, which could have met the government's needs, Norway's needs, but also safeguarded the grounds for protection that we now feel are being wasted. So a little bit to what we could see, and what we couldn't see. I refer again to what I said in my post. So the Red Cross set a crisis loss in August. It was not difficult to understand that the strong influx of asylum seekers into the EU would at some point come to Norway. The government chose, despite the fact that both the Left and the SV asked for a meeting in the Stortingen, to say no and put forward a budget that did not take into account what was going on. I just have to say that then I believe that the government has to bear to hear that you reacted too late on this. So I said in my post that what you could not have expected was what happened in Storskog, because it was not possible to plan for. Nevertheless, it has taken a very long time before various measures were taken to improve that situation, and I'm a little surprised if it's really the case that the Stortinget has to make proposals to create outpatient teams in different parts of the administration to deal with such situations, or that you have to move personnel between different departments that can be used to deal with an emergency situation. I thought it was the government's responsibility to handle – to make such changes quickly and immediately. I stand by the criticism I have of the government, not because I think it's the least funny. But I know that if we had reacted to this earlier, given the amazing efforts of many employees in public agencies and many volunteers now have been able to do it, you might have relieved your job a little bit, and that there were several people who would have dealt with their affairs more quickly if you had manned up these necessary functions earlier. I think it's not after-sight, because we said this last year, and it's about the government thinking that when you set up a very strict supervision, it's going to work very deterrently in itself. Then I think you underestimate the situation in which those who are real refugees are, because those refugees from a situation where the deadly flight is the best option. That's what the whole SV's commitment to this case is, that we have to take our share of responsibility for those who have protection needs. In this respect, authorities also need to respond quickly when there is a need to ensure it in a better way than it has now been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e830	I had great expectations that two representatives from SV before I was able to clarify what SV is going to vote for. We have a bill for treatment here today. The previous speaker, Karin Andersen, used part of his speech to argue strongly against some of the paragraphs, obviously in the belief that the bill is an à la carte table where you take what is right, and goes past the courts that don't look so inviting. Of course, this can be done during first-line treatment — with some reservations — but what about during second-line treatment on Thursday? The representative Lightbaking opened the day assuming that some kind of seminar activity could take place until Thursday — real treatment, he called it. I understand that the seminar idea is not unknown in SV circuits, but we are therefore the country's elected and legislative assembly, so we have to keep ourselves in order now. What's being adopted here today is what's on the table for the Storting for the second time on Thursday. My simple question is: is SV, if they were not to be heard regarding the paragraphs they have expressly reserved for, to vote against at the second time? I think the Stortinget has a clear claim to know. In the case of the representative Gahr Støre, who almost invokes a common national hard work around the refugee agreement that was concluded in ours, the Workers' Party initiative proved to be – we should all go around and wonder what the big deal would be at the Workers' Party's national meeting – 10,000 Syrian refugees, to a great deal of joy, divided over two years. The representative Gahr Støre says to the NRK that he will pressure the government to receive several Syrian refugees. It is, of course, the policy that sometimes you have to accept bad or not ideal agreements, because the option can be worse. It's quite right – as some people asked the undersigned about, I think it was the representative Arnstad – about the 2,000 that are the problem: no, it's the 2,000 that make it easier to swallow this agreement. The reason why these figures have something to do with each other is, of course, that 8 000 quota refugees also burden integration capacity, burden the economy of the municipalities, burden the entire care unit. There are two different entrances, but the problems and loads will be the same on the way. In the case of the Workers' Party, which was willing to negotiate the requirement of the national meeting and offer a sort of government discount – on 20 p.m., I understand it went on – you will also see that other modifications were made, thanks to reasonable input from our parliamentary leader. But what is changing is the Labour Party's policy. In the spring, there was a frontal attack on the country's Minister of Justice because, by an incursion, he had not removed all the traces of the Minister of Justice of the Labour Party, who had a broadcasting policy that was willing to put forward a motion of censure, so that a claimed change in the liberal direction was not implemented as quickly as the Workers' Party's new leadership wished. It must be possible in an informed democratic debate to stay a little longer. Now I see that the Workers' Party is back again and supporting the government, even though they have some – let's say – bureaucratic reservations about the processing capacity, organisation, money for municipalities and everything else, which should conceal that the disagreement about the government's proposals is not as great as you might want. But true to say, after listening to the Workers' Party today, and not least its leader, I am in doubt about where the Workers' Party is moving in these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e847	I have to say I was actually a little surprised and saddened by the reaction of the representative Lightbakken that I boasted that SV now finally has a focus on return work, and he made an impression that SV had not criticized the government's return work, but only who was returned. That's not right. The evening post on 13 September reads as follows: ‘SV will stop all return work and removal’. ‘SV requires Minister of Justice and Defence Anders Anundsen to order all departments to stop the work of sending and returning asylum seekers and others without legally staying in Norway.’ ‘In the current situation, the Ministry of Justice should rather concentrate on managing the asylum flow that comes to Norway, says Heikki Holmås.’ [[Frp]] The reason I was positive that SV now has a return focus is that SV has previously asked us not to have such a return focus. There is no request to start any discussion about it. I just note that SV is now fortunately busy with the return, and that according to the government has been, not only for the last weeks, but ever since the government joined, and it has also been important. What really made me draw was the claim of the representative Karin Andersen that criminals were deprived of return. It's directly wrong, and I don't want it to be said from this pulpit without it being corrected. There is no one who is higher priority for return than criminals. Last year and so far this year is up to 40 pst. of those who are returned, criminals. I think it is a little strange that SV needs to create the impression of something else. When it came to Andersen's comment on § 32, I am a little uncertain. It's possible we're talking a little bit past each other. What I tried to find out is that the provision that is a prerequisite for returning to a third country is that you can get your asylum application processed there. What I said in my post was that many of those who have now come over the Great Forest come from Russia, without being persecuted in Russia, and have a residence permit, a work permit, a study permit, etc. in Russia, which means that they have no need to deal with any asylum application in Russia. That's a little bit of the background for this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e868	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e871	I note, after the intervention by the representative Tetzschner, that the arrogance is well developed and the ability of self-criticism is not so developed. I think it is particularly important to chat with the opposition's need for questions in a case where the government is asking for access to that kind of emergency treatment. It's kind of like a teacher who knocks on the students because he's been coming too late for the hour. That's what Tetzschner is saying. I have explained in two articles today how SV is going to vote, and if the representative Tetzschner has not got it with him yet, it is he who has not heard well enough after. I don't think I'm using the assembly time to repeat it one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e876	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e879	I want to take with me what is essential from this debate, and it is therefore that we gather on the proposals that are here. There is agreement on an evaluation. As for the Right Party, I also intend to listen to what is essential in that party, and which is important to notice. That's what the Prime Minister says, that's what we have to deal with, and that's what their parliamentary leader is doing, that's what we're dealing with, that's what we're dealing with, that's what we've made agreements to ensure a broad deal about receiving quota refugees, and that's what they've invited for broad cooperation on this day as well. That's what matters. We can leave the immaterial.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e884	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e889	Then we're ready to go to voting. The case concerns Prop. L Amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. [[restrictions]] It's proposal No 1, by Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber and are also in the Salappe. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘III The Act shall be repealed with effect from 1 January 2018.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e1015	It is first contested in Section 32, first paragraph, point (d). The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e1030	It is then votered over in Section 76, second paragraph, and third sentence. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e1044	So it goes over the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e1054	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e1065	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget, which will take place at the meeting on Thursday 19 November. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy with an evaluation of the legislative changes in two years due to the short deadline and the lack of consultation. This evaluation must allow for a consultation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-16.ana.ud958e1079	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
