ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e53	They called for alternates, for Hordaland County Charlotte Spurkeland, and for Troms County Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen, have taken seats. The requested alternate of the Hordaland County, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes, as well as from other alternates, Filip Rygg, has applications for waivers to meet in the Stortinget on Tuesday 19 May under Knut Arild Hareides's leave of absence, for reasons of well-being. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – This is deemed to be adopted. The third alternate of the county of Hordaland, Beate Husa, is proposed to meet on Tuesday 19 May. – This is deemed to be adopted. Beate Husa is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e82	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e89	On behalf of myself and the Green Party, I would like to make a proposal to produce statistics on greenhouse gas emissions for all Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e94	The representative, Heidi Greni, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e97	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Geir Pollestad, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on wolf management.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e102	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 on the current map has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2 to 5 at the end of the day’s meeting. No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal – and this is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e122	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose free debate, but that the replacement of lines is limited to four lines with replies after the first speeches by the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of the parties, as well as six lines with replies after the first speeches by members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e127	Let me first thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter, the Ministry and the Council of State for providing information, and all the different people and bodies who, by having shared in the hearing, have highlighted the matter. Granting asylum to people who have been persecuted is one of the early characteristics of civilization. It is common to assume that thousands of years go back — perhaps as much as 3,500 years. The Court is also enshrined in the 1948 World Declaration on Human Rights, Article 14(1): ‘Everyone has the right to seek and accept asylum against persecution in other countries.’ The asylum institute is important. This allows a person who is persecuted or on the run to find a new home. An important and necessary part of the institution of asylum is also that many are denied their application – they do not meet the requirements. They're going to be sent back to the country they came from. Some of them cannot be sent back, e.g. because the situation in the home country is so dangerous that it is not advisable. For a good number of people, this has led to their being in Norway for an indefinite period of time – that is for a long time. There are also relatively many children involved. They're learning Norwegian. They go to kindergarten and school. They become a part of community throughout the country. They play and laugh like other kids. They need food and comfort like other children. They are children, also known as ‘asyl children’. For 2014, the government made a change in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police, which is the background to this case. Under Objective 4.2 ‘Risk return of non-residents without legal residence’, priority shall be given to matters involving children’. It was a change from 2013 where it said: ‘Cases involving children who have stayed for a long time in Norway without authorisation shall be prioritised’. Based on the letter of assignment, the Directorate of Police sends out a so-called disposal note for the police and officers’ seats. In that letter, the Police Directorate had not made the same change. It was therefore not passed on to those responsible for the returns, the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police – PU. Only by the end of 2014, on 2 December, the error was discovered. The Official Journal of Bergen could tell that the changes in the letter of award from the Ministry of Justice had not been followed up by the Directorate of Police. The Minister of Justice was summoned to Stortinget on short notice, where he acknowledged and regretted the error. After a while, there were three issues in the case of an open check: ‘1. How was the formulation understood and implemented by the underlying agencies? 2nd@item: inlistbox Did the ministry have a basis for understanding, and should it understand, that this amended wording was not passed on to the underlying agencies? 3rd@item: inlistbox Has the State Council’s information to the Storting been correct and adequate, and in line with the facts?’ Let's do the three questions for us in order. How did the underlying policy changes understand and implement? In Stortinget on 2 December, the Minister of Justice made it clear that he wanted to bottom that question. Shortly after the police directorate went out and said that the policy change was understood, and that the error had not had consequences. The Minister of Justice shall forward this message to the Control Committee in the form of a letter. This explanation kept the Council of State and the Prime Minister on track until the hearing in February 2015, although there were few or no signs that the policy change was understood. The hearing revealed that the answer to this question was much simpler – and in essence logical: what has not come with it cannot be understood either. The policy change was not passed on, nor was it understood – not by the directorate, not by the Police Foreign Unit. Should the Department and the Council of State have understood that no one had understood it? At least there is no lack of signal. First, the Department received a copy of the police director's release, without noticing that policy changes were not being implemented. Then there was a letter with questions from the Police Directorate about the concrete wording. In its reply, the Ministry continued to clarify but reiterated the wording it had used in the letter of award and said that ‘child matters will be given priority in 2014.’ Apart from that, the department did not come up with any indication of the policy changes at the point or a clarification that this was a change. In other words, the evidence that the change was not passed on was in the department, and a clear sign that the police directorate did not understand her was there too. In addition to the autumn of 2014, and especially in September, the number of broadcasts increases sharply. The first alert ticks into the department in the form of letters from, among others. Norwegian Agency for Asylum seekers, and media rewrites broadcasts of long-term children. This also reaches the Stortinget, and representatives of several parties address the issue in Stortinget. Already on September 29th, state councillor Anundsen got the first question about this house. In the early October debate, questions continue to come, not least from the supporting parties to the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Minister of Justice answers, but at no time does he investigate the political leadership of the policy. In its resolution of 2 December 2014, the Minister of Justice called the policy change referred to ‘an important change’ and ‘the clear policy change’. If a government council wants to make an important political change, it is not only common but absolutely necessary to communicate it in a clear way down the system. Then it has to be re-recorded, explained, clarified, underlined and communicated over and over again – at all levels. If there is a problem with implementation, it must be addressed. The problem must be solved. The knowledge that the policy was not put into practice was found in the ministry. The speech went into the weather, and from Stortinget, organizations and lawyers there was a question about what could have been followed up. However, there is no lack of evidence that the knowledge was followed up or that the information was requested. In my opinion, there is little doubt that the department could and should understand that the policy changes were not put into practice. Has the Minister of Justice informed Stortinget correctly and properly? It's a core question. He has given a lot of information to the committee afterwards. I still mean the answer at some critical time is no. We're going to stop again at the autumn of 2014, because there's a lot more children being sent out, and because that's when there's a lot of questions about it from the Stortinget. Already on 29 September, the Council of State will receive anundsen the first question. Karin Andersen of the Socialist Left Party asks the Minister of Justice if he can celebrate the number of families with children in Norway who have resided in Norway for more than three years and whose final rejection has been sent out of the country since 28 February. It gives the Council of State a chance to examine the situation. In its reply of 3 October 2014, the Council of State replied with figures up to August without including September — a month when the number of broadcasts had risen sharply. In the debate on the throne on 6 October, the question comes up seriously, among other things, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande. She asks: ‘So my question to the Council of State is: Has he given any notice in the system that will give us a massive broadcast before the new legislation comes into force?’ To that question, the Council of State initiates Anundsen's answer as follows: ‘I’m very pleased with that question – we haven’t. We have increased the target for returns in general, and this also leads to more people being sent out." There is a new chance of investigating how policy changes are, and I would like to add that it would be particularly common for a government council to check the status of repeated questions about a matter in Stortinget. At the same time, there have been a number of things that actually affect the number of returns of long-term children. Targets for broadcasting have risen sharply since the government change in 2013. While the red-green parties proposed a target of 4,000 broadcasts in 2014, it was added to 6,700 by the Solberg government. The revised government budget for 2014 once again increased, this time to 7,100 broadcasts. This policy change was closely followed up by the Anundsen Council of State. In particular, in the second part of 2014, there was a strong pressure on the underlying etats. In August 2014, the Police Foreign Office and the Department announced that it would be difficult to reach that target. A plan of measures was put in place to reach the target figure, among others. with extensive reallocation of resources. The fall of 2014 saw a sharp increase in the number of long-term children transported out, especially from September. The increment is clear, both when you look at absolute numbers, and when you look at them as part of the total number of transported out. According to the Minister of Justice in his hearing, September was the address of the Minister of Justice from 8 October. Not after that either when they talk to Stortinget. There were also other relationships around the broadcasts of long-term children in 2014 that the Stortinget could have had an interest in knowing this cottage – first, that the government had changed the practice of returning to Afghanistan, so that the families of children were sent back at a gradual pace, second, that on 24 September a charter plane went to Nigeria with 26 long-term children. It's this thing that directly affects the number of that month. It is not the case that the Minister of Justice was asked about the scale, the Nigeria Charter or anything else and then provided incorrect information here. But it is true that he did not communicate information to Stortinget, which we can later make clear had something to say that more – no fewer – children were sent out. Information that could shed light on questions and perhaps show that policy changes were not implemented did not come. The Minister of Justice should have shared information with the Stortinget in the fall, information that could shed light on the matter. After the Bergen's Official Journal reveals the matter, he is still injured to provide incorrect information. I have already learned that the Minister of Justice told the Committee and the Council that the policy changes were 'understood and based', based on the police directorate's statement. In the form of letters, but also in the storeroom, it was repeated. But, as we now know, it's wrong. He understood that, according to himself, under the earring, when he listened to his own inferior ethers. Let me allow me a little comment on that. A Council of State has constant access to information from its subordinate agencies — orally and in writing, directly or through the Office. He can ask and dig to understand and know. It seems, however, difficult to trust that the Minister of Justice – with the best access to information from the etats – only during the hearing did many of us long ago see as open, that the policy change was not understood and implemented. At another point, the information is misleading. Late in the fall, the Control and Constitutional Committee begins to work on this matter. In a letter to the Committee on 19 December, Anundsen wrote that the increase in return autumn 2014 was significantly due to changes in return rates for Nigeria and Afghanistan. He writes: ‘there has been a possibility of returning to two countries to which the return of families with children has been difficult in the past.’ [[...]] So one of them was Afghanistan. In its letter of 4 March 2015, the Council of State indicated that it was ‘the dialogue as a whole’ that it was possible to force it to return. Normally, an expression like "Opening an Opportunity" means that something has changed that creates an opening. In our work, the majority in the committee have not found any evidence of coverage to suggest that there is a possibility of returning to Afghanistan. Nothing opens up. Nor does Norway appear to have changed broadcasting practices on its own initiative. On 2 March 2015, Afghan regimes asked Norway to end their forced repatriation of families with children to Afghanistan. In the past, the Afghan government had also protested against these returns. The letters reinforced the impression that the government was taking the opportunity to increase its exports to Afghanistan strongly on its own initiative, not that there was an opening on the Afghan side. Summary: The Minister of Justice has told Stortinget about a ‘clear policy change’ which is ‘important’ and which ‘softens the focus’ on long-term asylum children. But this change was not seen in life. No attempt has been made to put change into life other than a single letter, with an unclear wording. The presentation by Stortinget did not match, and there were no significant attempts to get her to vote. The Minister of Justice replied to repeated questions about the long-term asylum child in the autumn of 2014. In response, important information was omitted: measures and re-priorities to reach target numbers for emigration, change in missions to Nigeria and Afghanistan, increase transport rates for September. He also chose not to examine these claims after a number of questions in Stortinget, and he did not inform the Stortinget about it until Bergen's magazine wrote about the case. Since the proceedings were public and the control committee asked questions about it, the Minister of Justice has also provided further false information to the Stortinget. He has explained that the policy change was understood by the police. That's not true. Later he explained that the high numbers of returned, long-term children to Afghanistan came from ‘opening an opportunity’. But there's nothing to suggest that it opens up a possibility. This is a serious matter. First of all, it's about real people, about real children, who get their destiny determined by decisions made in government or greatness. Asylum is one of our most vulnerable groups in society. Many have fled from war. Many have lived their lives without knowing the world they will be next year. They don't have the security of your classmates because they have a safe home in the future. We owe all the children that the bulk of the population takes their decisions based on balanced, correct and accurate information. Secondly, it is about how our democracy works. The size must be able to rely on the government to provide balanced and complete information on important issues. Governments themselves are responsible for ensuring that the information they receive from their agencies is correct. And objectively, disclosure obligations are violated if a person discloses incorrect or misleading information to the Storting. I think the government council has been eager to want the Storting and at least one point gave the Storting incorrect information. In this way, he has not complied with his obligation to provide information as it follows from the Constitution § 82. There must be room for misappropriation in the policy. Everyone makes mistakes. Errors can also be fixed. I do not advocate a system or an understanding that makes it impossible to be politicians, and that we should only have flawless politicians. But at the same time, serious errors should have consequences for the responsible person. If no one does what they have told Stortinget to do, and if the information they have entered in the same case is not correct, then there are serious and systematic errors. Faileds should have consequences. It is also not such that a breach of the information obligation automatically leads to a mistrust. There are other possible sanctions associated with such a breach allowed by the Constitution. But lacking trust is a political expression that we think: the policy changes were not put into practice the Minister of Justice should have understood what Stortinget is not informed as it should On that basis, a minority in the Committee, from SV, the Center Party and the Labour Party, has concluded that we do not have confidence in the Anders Anundsen Government Council. I will deal with the proposal that SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e266	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e269	The Labour Party does not trust Anders Anundsen as Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice has broken the Constitution. The Minister of Justice has breached the obligation to provide information. The Minister of Justice has provided the Stortinget with incorrect information. The Minister of Justice has held back information Stortinget has asked for. The Minister of Justice doesn't read his letters. The Minister of Justice does not ensure that messages he wants to give are followed up. The Minister of Justice is pushing ahead with what the office means in hearings. The Minister of Justice owes him to the Office for what he himself is responsible for. The report on the policy change notified the Minister of Justice never reached the police. They continued as before. When it was revealed, the Minister of Justice said that it had nevertheless arrived, that they had understood it. It's hard to believe, for two reasons: 1st@item: inlistbox The police say that message never came forward. 2nd@item: inlistbox Several kids were sent out. According to POD's figures, three times more long-term children were sent out in 2014 than they were in 2013. The Minister has said that the reason for this is that there has been a return to Afghanistan. Afghanistan disagrees. The police also disagreed, which said in the hearing that the reason for the increase in the number was that the figures increased. History doesn't offer so many mistrust proposals from the Workers' Party, so why is it coming now? Nor does Stortinget have a story to tell a minister who breaks the information obligation, as we see that Anders Anundsen has done. History is also difficult to compare with today, because the obligation to provide information was not established until 2007. The obligation to provide information is as follows: ‘The Government shall communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs.’;» This obligation was considered to be constitutional customary until its founding in 2007, following the recommendation of the Frøiland Committee — fortunately. The fundamental obligation to provide information protects us from politicians who do not think it is so important to tell Stortinget what they are doing. The interpretation of the paragraph can be found in the position of the Frøiland Committee and in the attitude of Stortinget, but it can also be found in the government's counsellor on the relationship with Stortinget, led by Nina Frisak at the Prime Minister's office. The discussion states that it ‘applies to a general ban on a member of the Government providing incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs’. And on the other hand, ‘The requirement therefore applies regardless of whether the government has promoted a proposition or a notification.’ – on the contrary – ‘The provision is of prime importance where the government has not submitted a proposition or a notification’. [[...]] Examples that are raised in the supervisor and where the provision applies include: all types of questioning The Storting has, presentations, languages of the throne and hearings. In brief, a State Council shall always inform the Storting not only of what the Storting asks to be informed, but on its own initiative – as it says – also of everything relevant to the matter. The task of the Control Committee has been to examine whether that was the case. The rapporteur has thoroughly reviewed the findings we have made, and it reflects his conscientious work throughout the matter. To make this assessment, you have to decide what truth is. Although politics has one theme – people's lives and how it can be made freer and safer, and hopefully a little better – the nature of politics is very far from human beings. We humans do not long for the explicit or floodlit as it approaches us. The insinuation and the cherry trees and hints about what you don't know is, other than that it's fine, can put any roses in your cheeks. The size, on the other hand, is not impressed by mysticism. We want to talk, not dance. We want everything. The size doesn't want a glass of water, we want the sea. And we won't ask about it. We want the whole truth. It has been said very well about the obligation to provide information. The current Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, said among other things: in the debate on Mongstad in the main hall: ‘The duty of information is a cornerstone of our democracy. It is attached to the Constitution. It's part of what makes our democracy transparent. It shall be ensured that the decisions are good. Provision shall be made for the political debate to take place on the basis of the facts available at all times. The duty of information is what makes us a democracy." And on the other hand, ‘That is why breach of the obligation to provide information is also very serious. Therefore, holding back information is a way of manipulating the political debate, for its own political gain, which is not in line with what are fundamental democratic values.’ I agree with Prime Minister Erna Solberg on this. But it's not until later that the minister from her own government is. Actual or empirical truth can be defined as the property of a statement if it is consistent with reality – not records, not disposal records – where the results are, where people live, or from which people are sent away. The Labour Party believes that the Minister of Justice has broken the Constitution because he has said that there has been a clear policy change – which never took place. The change was not put into life, but – even worse – nothing was done to put it into life. Although the Minister of Justice insisted that the change was important, it was not followed up in the governance dialogue. Everything suggests that reaching the targets was more important. It was this that was the theme of the meetings. The Ministry received several signals that the change was not perceived – not 1, 2 or 20 – over 70. Nevertheless, nothing was done to follow up. This is in itself serious. Answering directly may not be the core value of politicians. Why it's like that, it's as easy to explain as why someone's sneaking in the queue. We've been let go. We have been allowed to wade in an ant of “focus” and “robustness” for too long. And there it is that you ants most, lunt. When you talk unclearly, it's harder to be taken into a clear lie. Therefore, the disclosure obligation is more important and more difficult to control than the obligation of truth. How do you get an answer to a question that you don't know you need to ask? It is crucial for the trust between people and government that the Stortinge always gets the whole picture. That trust is challenged every time you have to ask follow-up questions. It is challenged when the Storting has to ask for information several times. It is challenged when one, as in this case, reproduces that letters from the authorities of other countries contain something other than what they actually do. It is challenged when things are informed – puzzled – through the press. Getting this case informed has been experienced as drawing secrets from a cross-breeding little sister. That's weird. Written questions and hearings are an opportunity to explain the whole matter from its perspective. The possibility of getting the case informed was not seized. Therefore, this second violation of the Constitution is more serious – because it's systematic, it's repetitive, and it says something about the relationship you have to the truth. The Minister of Justice replied to repeated questions about long-term asylum children in the autumn of 2014. In the answers, important information was omitted. The Minister of Justice did not mention measures and re-priorities put in place to achieve the target for transport. Information on the increased number of shipments to Nigeria and Afghanistan was not disseminated and he omitted the transport figures for August and September. We can't be sure that the Minister of Justice had this information by hand when he was standing there. What we can be sure of, however, is that he was not so uncertain about his own answers that he chose to investigate the situation after all the answers he gave in Stortinget. It is not unusual that government councils do not have all the answers in them, but they say they have to come back to the Stortinge with certain knowledge. It's totally acceptable. But what is unacceptable is government councils that do not find it appropriate to provide the Storting with supplementary answers, or provide non-slip answers that are not correct. The combination of being non-slip and not giving the right answers is not always a perfect combination. It is a constitutional expectation that state councils will investigate whether what they say in the Stortinget is true. That expectation was not met. The minister has given Stortinget the impression that the mistake he made has not had any consequences. The police director's letter was changed, but POD's instructions to PU, which was written for disposal, did not contain the change. Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen received a copy of that letter. He never read that. He's been blamed on the underlyings. Nevertheless, he has insisted that the police understood what he really meant, that is, the opposite of what was stated in the letter they received. In letter dated 19 December he wrote to the committee that the police perceived the change. Hoplegård also stated to Bergen's magazine that PU had understood the leaders. I expect a lot from the police, but I don't expect them to have psychic abilities. Therefore, it was not surprising that the PU itself said in the hearing that they had not received a written or documented notice to change their practice. They said this because they didn't get it. The opinions of the Official Journal of Bergen are as follows: ‘We have not seen any clear change in Anundsen’s policy. People ask what is really the message from the Minister of Justice." This was repeated and reinforced in the hearing. Kristin Ottesen Kvigne from PU repeated in his introduction that the PU had not made the change. Although the Council of State both told the Stortinget and the press – until after the hearing was over – that they had it, it turned out in the hearing that it did not. Nevertheless, the Council of State was so convinced that he was right that he chose to formulate the message again in a chronicle. The problem was that he wrote that chronicle before the hearing was over. Afterwards, the press could tell us that the land and the beach had to be ringed to change what was standing there. It says something about sloping safety. This chronicle was written before Hoplegård answered me in the hearing that the policy change that was understood was about the one-time solution, not about disposal written. In the hearing, police officer Pettersen of the P.D. P.D. said: We're missing control signals. We have not been informed of any changes in practice. We cannot afford to interpret what the politicians are saying. It's kind of reassuring that the PU is saying this. That means it's the people, through elections, who rule the police. And they're waiting for a message. The problem is, of course, reported when that message does not come. The police director said that he could not remember having received a signal, a message, a conversation or so much as a meeting that the changes that were taking out the wording ‘long-term child’ were important to implement. But target numbers were the theme of several of the meetings on governance. The Minister of Justice has said on several occasions that the reason for the increase in the number of children who were returned was that there was an opportunity to do so. What it means – as the rapporteur was talking about – is difficult to define, because there was no written wording. There is no evidence anywhere that the Afghan authorities have signalled a change in the situation or a possibility to open up. What we have, on the other hand, is statements from the head of the PU that it's not due to any opening of an opportunity. Kristin Ottesen Kvigne says in the hearing – and this I allow myself to quote, for it is important: The ‘actions’ to achieve the targets ‘were aimed at re-prioritizing to areas where there were return assumptions, and at taking resources from areas where we saw that the return assumptions were small or not present. That means we had a focus on Afghanistan and Nigeria in particular for returns. As regards Afghanistan, it is clear that more children have been sent out to Afghanistan now than it has been in the past, and this is because we have had a focus in this area – there is no doubt that there were both more families with children and more families with children who were sent to Afghanistan in the autumn of 2014.’» There was no doubt about it. We have also sent letters from the Afghan authorities saying the opposite. We know that, despite the fact that the department has committed itself to making these letters as difficult and translated as possible. These statements and letters show that we also have here an example that the minister has said something that does not match reality. He withheld information for the Storting. An example is the question of 6 October from Trine Skei Grande, as the rapporteur said, whether the Minister had given ‘some messages in the system that will give us a massive broadcast before the new legislation enters into force’. The Minister then failed to state that the figures for September were on the way up. They were so much on the way up that the Minister referred to September as a ‘big’ month. In addition, following the attention given to this case, an action plan was presented as a reason for increased transmissions. This is information the council should have had, and if he didn't have it, he should have gotten it. He should have realized that it should have happened to Stortinget. Therefore, it is to be regarded as a breach of Section 82. The Minister of Justice tells us that he does not read his post. It was made clear in the hearing. Therefore, he did not respond, even though he received many warnings about problematic broadcasts. But this is difficult to believe, because the same kind of alerts led to the termination of broadcasts. Then I'll allow myself to say something about the second trust, the one that's not constitutional, the one that's real -- the one that's experienced trust. We politicians have a job to do that is not just about laws, decisions and cutting strings. That job is about managing the most fragile thing between people: trust. What happens to the confidence we have as politicians, when we have politicians who say that a policy change is important, but do not do anything to fulfill it? What happens to that trust, when you're left with the impression that the Minister of Justice doesn't play with the Storting to get a case informed? What happens to that trust when it is the press that still has to reveal new aspects of a matter that we are all concerned about? It's weakening. That's why this case is about something greater than the Minister of Justice, and something greater than his relationship with the Grand Duchy: it's about people's relationship with politics. If it ends with people sitting in those thousands of homes and having reason to stop believing that politicians think that something is important when they say that something is important, everyone loses. If the idea that yes, yes, they say so much lies inside Oslo, but they do something completely different, get a point, lose democracy. Henrik Ibsen wrote in «John Gabriel Borkman»: ‘The most infamous thing is the abuse by a friend of his or her trust.’ The government is the government of the Great Government, that is, the people, elected to trust. Then the constitutional and real trust must be present. The liberal British Prime Minister Herbert Henry Asquith once said that also for governments the principle is: Trust is difficult to achieve, but easy to destroy. This applies not only to each individual, but to the policy as a whole. It should be our common task to avoid that happening. We in the Labour Party do not feel that the Minister of Justice sees it as his task. That is why the Labour Party does not trust Anders Anundsen as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e378	If the President permits, I'll reflect a little bit on the two previous posts. The first was permeated by moral pathos, and then I would bring in the memory of the assembly that the representative who spoke with such a great moral pathos about the duty of information, perhaps even had the opportunity to do so from the pulpit of the Storting because he belongs to a party that was 300 votes from not being represented in the assembly. And in relation to the other hypotheses that emerge from the suspension and the procedure here today, I think most people agree that if he had fulfilled his obligation to inform the Stortinget when he was the Council of State, and announced that in March 2013, Mongstad's performance project, which has cost the taxpayers 5-7 billion. kr, because you didn't come to the moon, you just came to Mongstad, without cleaning a single gas molecule -- well, I think the moral pathosis falls a bit on stone's floor, at least with me, also because it's said that you have an active incentive to inform the Greatness in matters of importance. I believe that you have, but you can put this case up against the Mongstad case, with their 5-7 billion. lost tax credits, which are clearly linked to a desire to be re-elected by actually keeping the Norwegian people and voters in ignorance – and I would say that is perhaps a little worse than being inaccurate in Stortinget – about having dedicated one of the major performance projects. And you're sitting on that statement for six months -- you're sitting on that statement for six months. I also think we should take it down a little bit by saying that what we are discussing today is not whether we are in favour of or against the asylum institution. We in Norway – if we look at the change of words in other countries – have a rather united approach to what should be a humane and proper asylum policy. We comply with the Refugee Convention through our Foreign Law. In addition, we put in an additional safety net, which means that we evaluate all matters individually — including, of course, children in particular — according to Section 38, where it is said that it is important to see whether there are nevertheless strong human considerations that speak for the granting of residence, even if you do not have protection needs according to international standards, and even if you do not have an international obligation to live up to. So that system is managed every single day through legal, proper process. Decisions are taken in the Foreign Affairs Directorate. Those who are dissatisfied with the outcome can try their case in UNE, and you can even – if there are other aspects of the application – try your case in the courts. In fact, if new facts were to come into the picture, you also have the opportunity to promote the desire for transformation. We have a pretty good system. The Minister of Justice was once criticized for using a somewhat harsh expression to get legal decisions enforced, but terms such as ‘to throw out asylum children’ are used. In reality, this is about implementing Norwegian, legal administrative decisions, which the whole system assumes will happen. It's not to bring out careless little children, which you can get the impression of. It's precisely because they don't have a story that tells them to have protection, which means that legal administrative decisions have to be implemented. So I want to say that it's at least as precise to say that this is an enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty, that is, we're the ones who decide who should be given the opportunity to migrate here. While EEA law may be controversial, refugee and asylum policy is not really so controversial. So we come to this: what order are the police going to work on? Then we are well aware that those who enter the Schengen border and who do not have legal residence in the Schengen area, under the Dublin Agreement, are to be returned to the first Schengen country, which is really responsible for maintaining a common immigration policy. That's why a lot of the police alien unit is involved, just this. The next group that everyone agrees on is those who have some serious criminal convictions, i.e. those who have come to engage in illegal activities. Once their relationship is settled, they also have to go out. The last group is second. And in all of these groups, there could also be co-workers who are children, of course. Then we have those who may have been wrong about their position as refugees. There is no crime to be mistaken for its international status as a refugee. That's why we have this test system. However, once the administrative decision has been taken, it must be implemented. And that's this group of broadcasts we're now talking about as if there was a world war standing at the door. It's not. I want to say that the picture that the representative Christensen had was really pretty good: we don't want just a glass of water – we want the whole sea. Then I must say that what we are discussing here is almost the storm in the glass of water. And why do you have to have the whole sea? I'd prefer a glass of water if it's about drinking unbreathed, but it's another side. I would also like to say to the story of the Storting: I cannot see that there are any of these cases that have shown that those who do a good job in the administration – whether UNE, UDI or the Foreign Affairs Unit – are not real people, who follow the rules and instructions they receive from us. None of these decisions are supported by the courts. Back to the political sphere: The information obligation of the Storting is, as was also mentioned by the representative Christensen, quite well investigated by the former State Council of the Workers' Party, Ranveig Frøiland, in the position of the Frøiland Committee, from approx. ten years ago, when it was being treated here. There's a lot of sense there. These include: that it is correct that the Constitution has been given a new provision, but it was not in order to do anything but to codify what was constitutional law. That's why I am surprised that the Workers' Party in the vote has formulated a theory that it is now very serious, because this Constitutional Decree instituting criminal liability. They therefore imply that the obligation to provide information has become much more acute through codification than it was when it was constitutionally customary. But that's simply not right. In the past, there was a criminal provision in the Liability Act that information to the Storting could lead to criminal liability. It was perhaps some of the issues, that you had a statute and a criminal code in a special law. But it is not that it can be found here solemnly that the Constitution § 82 has possibly been broken. The position of the Frøiland Committee also states that it is up to the political discretion to ask for information, and then, of course, it is emphasised that there is particular information given in the Stortingen settings, where the Stortingen will take far-reaching decisions. Bills or billions of appropriations may be involved, and it is clear that you have to be embarrassingly accurate, otherwise the Storting will make decisions on a wrong basis. That's perfectly obvious. It wouldn't work if you couldn't use the distrust and the control bodies as a back-up. However, it is also pointed out that other information is provided. They can be provided in the questionnaire, and in one minute’s reply – according to the case-rapporteur, Mr Solhjell – you must have presented a subject that would require planning, analysis and perhaps half an hour’s talk. Then you can't have a standard of information that means that you can say 'yes, I would have found this interesting' or 'the keyword on which the Council of State should have briefed'. That is why – back to the setting of the Frøiland Committee – you have chosen, with the best of advice, in a design in the Basic Law § 82 to say that the obligations are formulated negatively, i.e. the information provided shall not be incomplete; it shall not be false. So that's what it is. This does not mean that the whole case must be resolved in such a way that any representative in this Chamber would expect it to be investigated, in order for the information obligation to be fulfilled. That would be an impossible position. I would also like to say something about these questions, which are referred to by the Council of State: for example, the question from the case-rapporteur was referred to Karin Andersen. But there were questions insinuating what no-one has ever said, namely that the government and almost the state council did the opposite themselves, i.e. they were giving priority to broadcasting issues with posts of long-term children. That's what she insinuated, and that's what the Council of State said clearly: No, such a priority isn't there. The same theme was also addressed by the representative, Ms. Skei Grande. At the same time, however, it was given the information that the special emphasis – which was the policy of the Stoltenberg government – on the fact that it was particularly important to have the long-term children, the priority within Group 3, which can be called that group, was lost. But this did not mean that they were screened. Then it's also quite strange: when the Stoltenberg government left a budget line that was a target for transporting 4 900, the Solberg government gave an increase in terms of both the target number – up to 6,700 shipments – and the resource availability. In the revised state budget, this figure was increased to 7,100. It's a pretty formidable increase, adopted by the Storting. As far as I have registered, no one has voted against it – with a certain reservation about some parties, which I have not gone behind in the cards on this. I can't see that it was going to come as a surprise to anyone that when you increase the target number from 4,900 to 7,100, it would also lead to the broadcast in all categories. It's not striking. There is no striking displacement between groups. So to the insinuations that you wanted to reach a goal: it's the Bighold's own goal, so I don't think it's so strange that the government has a certain respect for them and divides into sub-targets, which you always do when you have to manage, and that the Storting may assume is part of the administrative dissemination of a task. Then you divide between tasks and departments. But there was no unfair division that was contrary to the messages given in Stortinget through these short questions. So it should not come as a surprise to the Stortinget that when they themselves increase the target figure by 45 pst., groups of long-term children are still being sent out in asylum cases where it is decided that they are not entitled to asylum. It's like you've fallen a little for your own slogans, and you've almost believed that you've done the opposite of what you did in Faremo's time, that's to protect this group especially for posting, but it's never been meant to be. I can also refer to a passage that Bård Vegar Solhjell was on: ‘More long-term families with children have been sent out despite and before the implementation of the notified changes for long-term families with children. In the last few weeks it appears that there has been a planned deployment of just such families.’ Yes, that's exactly this subject we've been dealing with: No, it wasn't a trace of it. So that's the question of what governance means. During the hearing and the admission to the hearing, the major issue was that of whether the Council of State had been loyal to the Stortinget – we must not say ‘decisions’ – for the Stortinget has not taken any decision to follow up this four-party agreement, which the Stortinget really does not know about, and they have also said no thanks to the Supervisory Committee to subject a politically agreed agreement between the parties to constitutional control. It would work out, if you did – then we would also have a lot more to do, and we have enough to do. So we're going to have to deal with what's been emitted as a decision in this room, that's what we're doing. And so there it is that when the Council of State has been asked if he has communicated it further, he has answered correctly all the way. In his statement of December 2nd – or at least in this context – he was asked if he knew that the release note had not come with the fact that the reference to long-term children, that is, the memory of Grete Faremo, was to be taken out. But no one at the time thought that the letter of assignment had been missing from the Department of Justice and Security to the Directorate of Police, because there was that policy change. So that's the question of policy change: Yes, it happens sometimes in this room that we say that now a policy change has been implemented. It could be that we're exaggerating the effect of what we're deciding on here; we think that there's a one-to-one exchange between decisions here and what reality looks like out in the world. So it can be a very big policy change without being able to read the statistics in the short term, and especially this foreign field, because what this assembly controls is the Norwegian rules. As I was in the place: what we're discussing today is a very small group categorisation during the implementations of the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police, but what determines if you can read anything from the statistics, is the conditions outside the world, it's the relationship with the governments of other countries, it's whether we've got return agreements in place, it's whether or not the concrete return assumptions are there. And it can also – as it should always be in a state of law – be a relationship in the individual family or in the individual's case where the personal return assumptions are also absent. So you can't read this from a bar graph. You have to have an unusually lively imagination – probably so lively that you shouldn't be in politics – to read, from this, dramatic changes that it can shift numbers from one month to the other. And one of the criticisms I also see to my amazement is that there should be a large number of broadcasts in September. It almost seems as if you've thought that the Council of State itself has had a lot of overtime in September, but that's not how it works. You use the possibilities that are, and when it's practical and you see that charter can be used, you do it. In addition, the figures for September, which the Council of State was criticised for not having presented in a meeting — in a quick response during the debate on the throne, which had not been announced in advance — were updated on 6 October, because they were then quality assured. Two days later, the Council of State received tables which showed that the number of missions for September had been high. But you must not institute as applicable and good administrative practices here in the house, that the Council of State should inform about numbers two days before he has received them physically. So, we can be accused of a certain kind of – let's say – post-competitionism, and I have to admit that we can have a twist of it. But it would put certain contexts out of play – especially those that Einstein has been interested in – if it is such a duty to inform about information before they are thus quality-proof and become the Council of State. I think we have to see this whole process more in a political context than really in a controlled context. It is of course that there may be a policy out of serious errors, and this should be the case, but sometimes you can wonder if you are using the control language, and if you are using reference to Section 82 of the Basic Law for a little more trivial occasions than you had imagined when the obligation to provide information was entered into the Basic Law. I think many people see that behind this lies a desire to challenge the majority that is, and that the Frøiland Committee had in mind: there is nothing in the way that control issues can also be over-sized for party political reasons, it really only depends on the self-control and self-discipline of the parties – and perhaps the last round of voters – if they think there is a real way to pursue politics, because they simply don't understand which country's accidents are really being discussed here. Then I must also say, as a member of the Committee, that during this process – we have not been exposed to a state council that – at least during consultation and in other contexts – has been on the waving front, has had to go back. The matter is actually there it did on December 2, 2014. Attempts to produce dramatic results from what happened in Afghanistan can serve as an example of this. This is a matter that had not come up as a topic either, simply because this note exchange, the relationship with the internal political situation in Afghanistan, etc., had ended – it was also announced through the reinforced resource that it had to deal with such issues in Kabul – but it says a little about the desire to problematize, even on the most syllable basis. I think we have to conclude with – and I think that will be the case afterwards – that Anundsen has informed the Storting sufficiently and correctly about the changes in the letter of allocation. He has complained to Stortinget that the lead was not passed on in the letter of disposal from the Police Directorate to the Foreign Affairs Department and the police officers. The announcement also informed us in the verification hearing that he had already made changes to improve the control and follow-up of the letter of assignment in future governance dialogues. At these times, there was nothing in the figures held by the department that suggested that the police directorate had not followed the instructions of the letter of assignment, and therefore there was no particular reason to investigate matters when other parts of the letter of assignment were concerned. We believe that Anundsen informed Stortinget satisfactorily also on the questions asked by Stortinget's questioning system. There is no evidence that the measures and re-priorities taken by PU to achieve the target figure were of particular importance to the long-term children, which was also the intention. Information on the number of broadcasts and return practices, e.g. to Nigeria, was first updated in October by the report dated 8 October 2014. Return practices to Afghanistan developed over time, with relatively few monthly shipments. The information provided was good in relation to the questions asked. It would be difficult to claim that the information obligation of a government council extends so far that he is obliged to update the Storting continuously about new figures about a later period than the periods he had to deal with when he answered. It is crucial, however, that a government council informs the Storting based on the information available at the time of the response – and we can imagine if the government council had begun to guess what the figures were like on 6 October and not based on the latest quality assurance figures. We also believe that the majority of the Committee's comments on this point are in line with the expectation that a State Council cannot deal with clear communications from underlying agencies about their understanding of the letter of allocation. With that in mind, I want the Directorate of Police to confirm that they understood that policy change in an adequate way. It is also pointed out that the Directorate of Police wrote very clearly that they had perceived the steering signals in the letter of assignment. And the Council of State, in the letter to the Committee, answers in a concrete way that it is the Police Directorate who informed that they have understood the leadership. The fact that there should be a breach of the disclosure obligation when a State Council passes on an underlying entity's understanding of the letter of assignment in the form of quotes must in fact be due to a rather remarkable development of what the disclosure obligation is supposed to be under the Basic Law, Section 82. The disclosure of such a quote is also not a breach of the disclosure obligation of a Council of State. I must say that those who thought we should say good-bye to the Anundsen Council today will have to go home disappointed, but what we are really taking with us today is the memories of the former government's asylum policy. We reject the mark that Grete Faremo, as well as Secretary of State, has encroached on constitutional law. Someone will enjoy it, others will not. But I think we should be aware that if we want political changes, then it must be done by law, it must be done through regulations, it must be done through policy developments here in the Chamber. And I would encourage those who want a different asylum policy to promote it through their own proposals and not through so much war by proxy. For it will be a very asymmetric warfare if you can allow yourself rather unreasonable and inaccurate claims of reality, while the Council of State lives – and he must – under an absolute requirement of truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e444	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e447	The Supervisory Committee deals with the constitutional, not the political, content on which the representative Tetzschner spent a lot of time, and the matter concerns whether the Council of State has provided correct information to the Stortinget, please refer to the Constitution § 82. What the Council of State said in Stortinget on 2 December was: ‘As an underlying agency, the Directorate of Police has not followed up the clear policy change contained in the 2014 letter of allocation. Such errors shall not occur.’;» The government parties believe that this is not a disclaimer, the centre party disagrees with it. My question is this: Should such a strong criticism of an official as the Council of State has expressed from the Parliamentary Chair have consequences for his position?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e461	Now I think we should take care of the parliamentary forms, because it is not up to the Storting to conduct human resources policy. But it's probably also in some of the things I said earlier, that not having read a good enough proof of the letter of assignment from the department when you pass it on to the police districts and the Foreign Affairs Department – it's a proof-reading error in the first place. I haven't yet seen that someone has managed to make a convincing argument that there was something you didn't want to put into life. Obviously, if you operated with such an infallibility standard in public, it would actually be quite inconvenient, and it would go beyond the efficiency of administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e466	This does not apply to proof-reading errors, the standard of infallibility, which the representative speaks about, which is at the heart of the matter, namely the concept of ‘ready policy-making’. The Council of State has always said that there was a clear policy change in the letter of allocation given, and the clear policy change has not followed up the chief police officer, the police director. Is it a criticism that must have consequences for the official in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e471	I can then actually refer to the position of the Frøiland Committee, which says that the Storting should show great restraint in having perceptions of the activities and responsibilities of the agency. We must initially address our concerns, our questions and our challenges to the relevant Council of State. It is also in the principle of power distribution that the Storting should not, should not and cannot be, human resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e477	I notice that the representative, Tetzschner, repeats in his post the vote of the Advance Party and the Right, where they write that they do not find the basis for the criticism. It may seem that they agree with Minister of Justice Anundsen when he says in the hearing that it is difficult to imagine that it is possible to do this in a better way than what he has done. Does it mean that the Right Government Party considers it acceptable for a Government Council to withhold information, misinform and allow it to follow up or check whether the information provided is correct? That you do not believe that this is a basis for criticism, does that mean that the Right Government Party is now introducing a completely new state practice in Norway, that it is entirely acceptable to a government council to owe it to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e482	Finally, it is clear that when we have a hearing of control where its guests include more than the Council of State itself, and the members of the Control Committee then ask the heads of external agencies about their relationship, one must be allowed to comment on the answers that come from there. Then it can't be that the opposition uses the answers from the underlying agencies as appropriate. It must also be an opportunity for others — the superior, the ministry — to contribute their information from their point of view. In terms of statehood: a great deal in the control themes is very vaguely formulated, and then there will be a political assessment, which we do not agree with the majority of the committee so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e489	Maybe too rarely do we politicians say exactly what we mean. I will do that now: I thought this was a embarrassing post by the representative Tetzschner. I thought it was pretty bad and at least far below the level of the representative's capacity. Large parts of it were held in a bit spooky, harping tone in all directions, and he began with an attack that I must say I perceived as very gross – seen as a reflection without a script at the beginning of a case where I am the case spokesman and went through the case. So I'm going to ask if something completely different than what I was going to ask about, that's whether the representative Tetzschner seemed the way he started the post, and the tone he held it in, represents a good standard for how debate should go on in the Storting, and whether he would like others to follow up with a similar kind of post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e494	That's an impossible question. There is a beauty assessment by the representative Solhjell. He didn't like my post. I didn't like his line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e499	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e502	This matter concerns whether the Government of the Minister of Justice has complied with its obligation to provide information under the Basic Law, Section 82, in connection with the dispatch of persons residing illegally in the country. § 82 reads: ‘The Government shall communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs.’;» The starting point for the case was that the Minister of Justice had softened the focus on sending long-term children in Norway in relation to the focus of the previous government. The government, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, had the following priority on the deployment of illegal persons in the country. I quote from the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police for 2013: ‘ Prosecuted convicted persons. Persons to be returned under the Dublin Regulation. Non-residents whose refusals have not been deferred. Priority shall be given to matters involving children who have been in Norway for a long time without authorisation.’» This letter of allocation clearly shows that the previous government considered that long-term children in Norway who have been illegally present should be given priority for deployment. In the current government, the Minister of Justice and Security in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police has introduced an embellishment with regard to the priority of long-term children, by the fact that these were no longer to be given priority in broadcasting, but are included among other children in which children were generally to be given priority. Thus, the following wording was used in the 2014 Letter of Allocation to the Directorate of Police: ‘ Prosecuted convicted persons. Persons to be returned under the Dublin Regulation. Non-residents whose refusals have not been deferred. Priority shall be given to matters involving children.’» The change in the letter of award has been made on the initiative of the Minister of Justice himself, and there is reason to commend the Minister of Justice for this initiative, as one did not want it to be a priority to send long-term children, as it was on the steps with both a one-off solution and a final solution for long-term children, in agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. On the other hand, the Minister of Justice has not said that long-term children should be screened for deployment pending the above solutions, but treated as other children who had been rejected. This clearly shows that there is an embellishment of the political leaders in relation to the leaders of the government that consisted of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. Through a series of notices in the Official Journal of Bergen, for the first time on 2 December 2014, the changes in the letter of allocation to POD were made public, but the statements focused on the fact that the changes in the letter of allocation had not been followed up and passed on to the underlying offices. On the same day, 2 December, the Minister of Justice and Defence of the United Kingdom confirmed that the changes were not passed on in the police directorate's letter of disposal. The Council of State complained to Stortinget that the changes had not been passed on to the underlying offices through disposal written by the Police Directorate. The Party of Advances refers to the fact that although the disposal written from the POD to the underlying agencies did not contain the changes to the Letter of Allocation from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, all departments receive both documents, i.e. both the letter of allocation and the letter of disposal. In the hearing, the Council of State has stated that trust-based management must be able to expect the transmission of senior management documents to be read and followed up by the management of the various underlying agencies, in particular where policy changes are made. The Progress Party agrees with the Council of State in this respect. The Council of State has informed that the Department is reviewing the procedures with a view to a more thorough follow-up of the disposal notes in the underlying agencies, and in particular where policy changes are being made. The party of progress finds this reassuring. During the debate on the throne on 6 October, the Council of State received questions from Trine Skei Grande about, among other things. the following: ‘Has he given any notice in the system that will give us a massive broadcast before the new legislation enters into force?’ I would like to quote some of the Council's answers here: 'We haven't. [[...]] We have increased the number of returns in general, and this also leads to more people being sent out. But what we have done in this regard is that we have actually raised the focus of our letter of assignment in relation to the previous government." And on the other hand, ‘But no government signals have been sent to give priority to a long-term child in order for a person to send them out more quickly in advance of a regulation.’ This clearly shows that, through the letter of allocation, the question of priority has been followed up politically. The majority of the Committee pointed out that the Ministry of Justice and Defence received a number of signals that the change in priority was not understood and implemented. I think this must be due to a misunderstanding, as the alerts from the Police Foreign Office via the Police Directorate were alerts about individual matters that were intended to prepare the Department for matters that could create media interest. This was a practice that had been in force for many years, including in the previous government. As long-term children could also be sent out, until September 2014, the number was so low that there was no reason to respond. The deviation that came in September is due to a major shipment, including: to Nigeria. As the Council of State explained during the hearing, there were several months in 2014 when no minor children had been sent out that had missed the exit deadline by more than two years. Since there is a great deal of focus on understanding what the policy change in the letter of allocation to the POD involves, the Council of State wrote in a letter to the Committee of 19 December 2014: ‘In retrospect, I see that we could be even clearer in the feedback to the POD at this point, if one was unsure whether there was consistency between the letter of allocation and the letter of disposal.’ The Progress Party welcomes the self-criticism already expressed by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee. There has been a focus on sending out more long-term children in 2014 than in the past, and on depriving people of criminal response from children. When the government’s 2014 target for sending illegal residents is increased to 7,100, it goes without saying that the proportion of children would also be higher than in 2013, and thus also long-term children, as they are to be sent out in line with other children. Priority should be given to children. When one looks at the outcome of deportations in 2014 as a whole, the proportion of people who have committed criminal acts has risen from previous years to 38.7 pst. This figure was 21.5 pst for 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively, 27.7 pst. and 37.3 pst. By 38.7 pst. for 2014, it clearly shows that criminals have not been down-prioritised, on the contrary. When you look at the percentage of children sent out, this was for 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively 13.6 pst., 9.7 pst. and 7.7 pst. For 2014, the proportion was 8.9 pst. This clearly shows that the proportion of children has not changed significantly from the past. I think it is right to state that all persons who have been transported have been treated earlier by the UDI/UNE and have the status of illegal residents in the country. There is probably an impression that these are people who can stay in the country, but still have to be transported out. I also use the opportunity to comment on today's version of Bergen's Official Journal, where the following is claimed: «Nearly six months have passed since BT could reveal that Anundsen's new, softer lines of asylum children never reached the police.» This isn't right. The new policy was laid down in the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate, and since the Police Directorate is the top police authority, one must be able to claim that the new policy has reached the police. The Council of State has complained to the plenary assembly that the change in policy on the prioritisation of long-term children did not come down to the police's underlying offices. The ad also took self-criticism that he could be more clear on the feedback from the POD in this context. There is also reason to recall that the Minister of Justice and Security has achieved and well saw the figures for exports set by the government in 2014. This deserves Anders Anundsen honor for. In this case, the Progress Party does not find the basis for criticising Minister of Justice and Defence Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e616	I notice that the representative of Thorheim in his statement says that we must be able to claim that the new policy reached the police. I have respect and understanding that the representative of Thorheim should have wished he could have said it did. But we've been in consultation, both myself and the representative Thorheim, where we've been sitting on the first line that said, "We didn't get that message." Therefore, it is still not possible to make that argument. But I took the word to try to get hold of something that I asked the second government party, which I did not get a response to, and I try again with the Advance Party. Is it such that we are now in the process of introducing a new state practice in Norway where it is feasible, and good official conduct and good state custom, to owe to the civil service?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e625	I think it's going a long way to say – in this case – that you owe it to the office. When the Minister of Justice and Security here has a question about how this is connected, I find it quite natural that the Minister of Justice and Defence responds to this. He has quite rightly said that the letter of assignment went to the POD, but unfortunately this has not moved on to the underlying office. I find no reason to believe that it is to owe it to the underlying department, it is only a correct description he gives on questions from the Storting on how this relates. If I had been in that situation, I would have answered exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e632	Does the representative Thorheim think it is POD's or the Minister of Justice's responsibility that that message did not come out? Does Thorheim think it is POD's or the Minister of Justice's responsibility to see that message come out? Does the representative of Thorheim think that the minister should have examined, in the light of all the questions raised in the Stortinget and the warnings he received, whether that message came out or not? And does the representative Thorheim honestly believe that the statements that came from the hearing, namely that the police had not understood the policy change, are a sign that the minister was speaking the truth?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e638	Now there were a lot of questions in one question, but I'm going to take what I think is the main essence of that question. First of all, I think it must be the police director who makes sure to continue this downwards. But there is no doubt about top responsibility – it is the Minister of Justice and Security who has the overall responsibility. This has been confirmed by the Minister for Justice and Security himself in Stortinget: it is my responsibility to have that responsibility without delay. The Minister of Justice has said this in Stortinget: I am sorry for what has happened. I find it sufficient that he apologizes. But initially, the chief of staff, in this case the Minister of Justice, has the overall responsibility – yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e649	I thought that what the Council of State said in Stortinget on December 2nd was not to be misunderstood. It was clearly there who had done the wrong; it was the police director who had done the wrong thing about his leader, not the state council. The Police Directorate has not followed up the clear policy change. And then we now experience that the main figure of the Progress Party is saying that he would also answer in the same way, and that answer from the Council of State is not to blame for the office. That's pretty special. Isn't it that what the Council of State said on December 2 is unambiguous? And when it's so unambiguous, it must have consequences for the official, when one makes such a clear mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e654	Then it almost has to be so that I have to repeat what I said to the representative Christensen. When Stortinget asks for an explanation of what has happened in this case, it is reasonable that the Council of State explains how it relates, that the content of the letter was not continued. I find it quite natural that the Council of State did so. But the Council of State itself has said: It is my responsibility that this has not progressed. And he's sorry about this. I don't find it any more strange than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e659	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e662	Let me start by acknowledging that without the journalistic work BT carried out in this case, I am not sure if we had had this case for consideration today. In that recognition, there is praise for a very observant and up-and-coming press, but there is also a recognition and a certain self-criticism of a lack of focus from one's own party on the follow-up to agreed policy change in a field that concerns vulnerable people who have had a very demanding, yes, worst possible start in life. The background to the control case has been the change in the Ministry of Justice’s letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police for 2014 in relation to 2013 and the degree of follow-up to this change. The letter of assignment was amended for 2014 under the heading ‘Partial measure 4.2 Rapid return of non-residents without lawful residence’. The change was made after the introductory phrase: «The following priority shall form the basis for the forced return operation: [[...]] The amendment consisted in the words ‘which have been in Norway for a long time without authorisation [[...]] [[...]] «The priority shall be given to matters involving children.» The central questions in the case include: how the formulations were understood and implemented by underlying agencies, and whether the ministry had a basis for understanding and/or should have understood that the amended formulation was not passed on to the underlying establishments. The most important question for the Committee has therefore been whether the State Council's information to the Storting has been correct and adequate and in line with the facts, in the light of the Basic Law § 82. The case rapporteur has already given an in-depth assessment of the various aspects of the case, and we in the Christian People's Party share his opinions far on the way, without following his conclusion, as he has chosen to do so. For the Christian People's Party, there are three issues in particular that make the matter today serious with regard to the Constitution § 82. Firstly, in the United Kingdom on 2 December, the change in the wording of the prioritisation of the Council of State was referred to as a clear policy change. Through a series of notices in the Official Journal of Bergen in December 2014, the first on 2 December 2014, it became known that the change in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police for 2014 had not been followed up and passed on to the underlying offices. On the same day, the Minister of Justice of the Grand Duchy confirmed that the change had not been passed on from POD to underlying agencies, and he regretted this. In our opinion, it is demanding to find evidence that the management of the Ministry of Justice in 2014 did anything to ensure that the policy change was understood and implemented. There has been dialogue between the Ministry of Justice, POD and PU throughout the year, and it may seem that the Council of State has asked for follow-up or consequences of changes in the letter of assignment, as well as how the clear policy change was understood and followed up. Secondly, in a letter of reply to the Committee on 19 December 2014, the Council of State states that ‘there is a possibility of returning: [[...]] [[...]] ‘Summary, therefore, is not a single event or a special situation that changes in the dialogue between Afghanistan and Norway, which opens up a return possibility of families, but the fact that the dialogue together has led to the acceptance of such a return by the Afghan authorities.’ That was the response of the Council of State in a letter to the Committee on 4 March 2015. I have to say this is in quite a contrast to what the reports of organisations working against Afghanistan have reported. The conditions have not improved, perhaps on the contrary. We have read letters from the Afghan authorities to the Norwegian authorities that have just warned against forced return due to the conditions in the country. Thirdly, in the persuasion debate on 6 October 2014, the long-term child was a theme in several articles and lines. The Council of State did not indicate that an action plan was put in place in the PU to achieve the 2014 targets and that this could have consequences for the deployment of long-term children. Also, the Council of State did not indicate that the number of long-term children sent out in September 2014 was unusually high. It was later informed in a letter to the Committee that the number of children released in 2014 was higher than in 2013, on the grounds that the target number had increased. However, it was not stated in the same letter that the proportion of long-term children also sent out had increased from 2013 to 2014. It was announced in a letter to the Committee that POD and PU had met with the State Council on 19 August 2014 where the return was the subject. PU informed us at the hearing of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that they felt the Council of State in this meeting and in communication before and after was very clear on the importance of achieving the targets, despite PU’s problematisation of the possibilities for achieving the high targets for 2014. After the meeting we see that the number of returns increased sharply, and then we talk especially about September 2014. According to the Council of State, there was no record of the meeting on 19 August. The explanation that there was an opportunity for return seems to make sense in the light of the communication between the Ministry of Justice, POD and PU. It seems fairly clear to us that the target number focus has drummed most, and in our view, it was the focus on figures that led to the sharp increase in returns in the autumn of 2014, to Nigeria and Afghanistan. The change in the priority from long-term children to children does not appear to have had an impact on the second half of 2014. The Council of State has expressed its opinion to Stortinget on the matter several times, without – as we experience it – having provided all the information necessary to fully inform the matter. He has therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, not provided comprehensive information to the Stortinget. It appears documented that there have been broadcasts of relatively more long-term children in 2014 than in the previous year. This appears to have occurred as a result of an actionive pressure from the Council of State towards underlying agencies. That act from the Council of State is not in accordance with what we experience he has expressed to the Stortinget. This, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is very serious and highly critical. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, it may seem that the Council of State has given its opinion to the Storting several times, without providing all the information necessary and sufficient to inform the matter in such a way that the Storing can form a fully comprehensive picture of the facts of the case. I must therefore state that the Council of State has not provided adequate information to the Stortinget and will further stress that the Council of State also has a self-reliance to disclose the uncertainty with which information that is being provided to the Stortinget may be involved. I show you, among other things: To the bottom. S No 210 for 2002–2003 and 4.6, on government disclosure obligations towards Stortinget. As I have already stressed, the Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the broadcasts of long-term children carried out in 2014, and especially in the second half of the year, do not appear to be in line with the policy change the Council of State has expressed in the Stortinget. In our opinion, this is very serious and highly critical. At the same time, in the Christian People's Party, we are of the opinion that there is no evidence that the Council of State had knowledge of any information other than that which he communicated to the Storting at the time. We therefore believe that the Council of State has not demonstrably communicated information that he knew was not correct. There is reason to believe that the Council of State, in its briefing to the Storting, announced what he knew at the time, and he did not know at the time of the figures, among other things. of September. That means that his lack of orientation does not appear to us to be a deliberate act against better knowledge. At the same time, I would argue that it is critical that over a whole year, with regular dialogue meetings with the police, a Council of State has at no time focused on how what is defined as a clear policy change was followed up in practice. It is alarming and critical that the Council of State assumes without delay that the policy change has taken place in the light of the change in the letter of award sent out in January, without examining whether this is true. The Christian People's Party records the State Council's opinion at its meeting on 2 December 2014, where he regrets that the change of priorities in the letter of allocation had not been followed up by the POD and its underlying establishment. We have also noted the opinion of the Council of States to the Committee at its hearing on 6 February 2015, stressing the need for ‘to respond better to new governance signals and to make sure that these are actually perceived’. We have also noted that during the hearing the Council of State stated that: ‘the case has provided a basis for learning and improving procedures and management in the field’. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have recorded that the Council of State here seems to some extent to recognize that there have been significant shortcomings and weaknesses in the handling of the whole central aspect of the political governance of this matter. Our conclusion today is therefore that we in the Christian People's Party state council Anundsen has informed Stortinget in a way that is very serious and highly critical. It does not seem to us, however, that the Council of State has deliberately provided the Stortinget with information other than what he thought was correct at the time it was given. For the Christian People's Party, this leads against the strongest criticism you can make, before distrust. This underlines the great seriousness of this matter for us as a party. On behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Green Party, I therefore support the following proposal: ‘It is very serious and highly critical that Minister of Justice and Defence Anders Anundsen has not provided comprehensive information to the Stortinget on the issue of the sending of long-term asylum children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e726	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e731	As the representative said, the expression ‘strongly critical’ is a very strong expression in a situation where there is a control case. This is a very strong parliamentary expression. My question is what the Central Party is at the heart of what the Council of State said in the Grand Duchy on December 2, when the Council of State said the following: ‘As an underlying agency, the Directorate of Police has not followed up the clear policy change contained in the 2014 letter of allocation. Such errors shall not occur.’;» Now we have a thorough examination of all sides, and my question is this: has the Committee of Inquiry shown that it was right for the Council of State to take responsibility for the Directorate of Police?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e743	It is clear that in a case like this, which has been revealed through the examination of the Control Committee, there is no doubt that the central responsibility for the implementation of this change of priorities lies with the Council of State. Then we're familiar with that in a system that we're talking about here, where we have POD and underlying agencies, there's a division of labour where a rate of delegation of authority is possible. It's also done in this case. But the responsibility remains with the Council of State, although one can prove that one of them has made a mistake from the police director towards the underlying agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e750	There is no doubt that the Council of State is responsible, and there is no doubt that the Council of State has complained that the underlying agency has made mistakes. But at the heart of the question is what has been said by the European Parliament, namely that the Council of State has clearly said that the error, that there has not been a clear policy change, lies with the Directorate of Police. It is very special that it is said so clearly by a council of states from the Parliament's pulpit, and my question is: Was it a right addressee when we have now gone through the hearing, the whole matter and have the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e755	I believe quite clearly, as I said instead, that the responsibility for this error lies with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e764	The Central Party is standing guard over the asylum institute. It's an important part of our humanistic heritage. The persons in need of protection and protection are clarified according to detailed rules. Forced release of children who have not been granted residence in Norway on their application for asylum is very difficult and demanding. It touches the hearts of many, and that's good, and that's something the Center Party listens to, especially when the children have been in Norway for more than three years. The responsibility of the Monitoring Committee is to assess the constitutional, i.e. the behaviour of the Council of State towards the Storting. The Control Committee shall not deal with the political content of the matter, much smaller agreements between government parties and supporting parties. It's the party's own responsibility. Since the field is so demanding, there is therefore a close dialogue between the Ministry of Justice's political management and the agencies underlying it, for example the Directorate of Police, the Foreign Affairs Unit, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs – UDI – and the Department of Foreign Affairs – UNE. The mutual possibility of an exchange of information on the realization of the Storting's will is therefore particularly good in these cases. In the treatment of the 2014 State budget, the new government changed the target number from 4,900 to 6,700. It was further increased in the revised national budget to 7,100, and all parties, minus SV and the Greens, were behind it. In addition, in 2014 there were subsequent reactions to the practice of the target number of releases and to the consequences of the achievement of the target number. The Official Journal of Bergen had a comprehensive series of informative articles, and the Left by its chairman, Trine Skei Grande, asked for a separate statement in the Stortinget on 2 December following the second paragraph of Section 54 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure on the basis of information in the Official Journal of Bergen. The representative Skei Grande said the following at the time: ‘How does the Council of State explain that his explicit political leadership in reversing the red-green government’s priorities for the deployment of long-term asylum children has not reached the Ministry of Justice’s underlying directorate and agencies to decide on the effectiveness of discards?’ State Councillor Anders Anundsen replied as follows: ‘As an underlying agency, the Directorate of Police has not followed up the clear policy change contained in the 2014 letter of allocation. Such errors shall not occur.’;» The point is therefore the clear policy change on not the specific priority of sending long-term children, but only the priority of sending children. At its meeting on 27 January 2015, the Committee decided to monitor three issues with a view to clarifying how this clear policy-making was followed up as formulated by the government. At the hearing of the Control Committee on 6 February, the Foreign Affairs Unit of the police was also called. During the interview, there was an awareness of a meeting in the Ministry of Justice on 19 August last year, where the Foreign Affairs Department of the police was also present. That meeting was important, because other documents show that it was decided that the target should be achieved and that an action plan should be implemented. In the course of the hearing, the Advocate General, Mr Vegar Solhjell, asked the Foreign Affairs Department: ‘May I ask, when it concerns the part of the meeting that concerns this, because there was also another theme at the meeting, what did they get from the Minister of Justice at that meeting?’ Morten Hojem Ervik of the Police Foreign Affairs Unit replied as follows: ‘It’s quite correct, as you say, that there was a meeting that contained several points, where one of the points was a statement from our side – a little about the challenges we had associated with the return assumptions, and that thus it was quite demanding to reach high figures. Then we got the feedback that the measured figures that were set were very important, and that we did what we could to reach them." The board Vegar Solhjell further asked: ‘Did the Minister of Justice give any concrete guidance or signal or political guidance on the type of action to be taken?’ The answer was: ‘No, there was no one — considering this theme of categories, etc. it was not a theme.» The point is that the so-called clear policy change was not addressed according to the representative of the Foreign Affairs Unit at the meeting. Throughout all the answers received by the Committee on the Council of State, what the Council of State has said, and what has happened in the underlying bodies at the hearing and by letter, there has been no follow-up to the clear policy change. On the other hand, the focus has been on achieving a higher target for 2014, which required large extra resources in economic and personnel terms. This meant that for all asylum seekers who refused to stay in Norway, where the identity was known and where the prerequisites for forced return to their country of origin, return was used. The practical reality of the clear policy changes therefore meant a much higher target for forced returns. That was what was the policy change, while the so-called depriority of sending long-term children had no significance in practice for the Council of State, because the target figure was the most important. This is a different reality from what the Council of State said in the Stortinget on December 2nd, where he blamed the Police Directorate through the statement: ‘As an underlying agency, the Directorate of Police has not followed up the clear policy change contained in the 2014 letter of allocation. Such errors shall not occur.’;» As mentioned earlier, the Ministry was briefed on the actual situation throughout 2014, without intervention and correcting the policy direction. It is not often that a government council so clearly criticises a leader of an underlying establishment. If that happens from the pulpit of the Storting, that must be the basis for it. Furthermore, there must be consequences for his position when a gross error is made by an official. In this case, the error has not had any publicly known consequences for the official. Nor has the Council of State regretted that he blamed the police director. On the contrary, the Council of State has repeated this by regretting, as the chief responsible, that the police director has made mistakes. The examination of the case by the Control Committee has been thoroughly elucidated. As the comments from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV show, there are a number of factors that show that the Council of State has not correctly informed the Stortinget, cf. The Constitution § 82. For the Central Party, the failure of the Council of State to manage its own pronounced clear policy change and the associated disclaimer of responsibility is very serious. Against this background, we are in favour of and promoting proposals of mistrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e820	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough presentation here in the Chamber on the matter. As we know, we mostly agree on the matter, but we have separated some layer in terms of the final conclusion. Deepest of all, this case concerns me and the Left about how we treat children who live in families who have been refused asylum applications, but who still and for various reasons remain in Norway for many, many years. Several of them were born here and do not know any other country. Many others came here as very small and have their entire identity attached to Norway. Many are well integrated through kindergarten and schooling. It is a child who has a home country, and that home country is Norway. This is a group of children for whom the Left over a long, long time has had a strong commitment, but where it was impossible to get anywhere with the previous government because the Workers' Party refused, because the Workers' Party had a kind of justice ideal that it was – and is – completely impossible to understand. Getting a more humane policy towards long-term asylum children was therefore an independent argument for the Left for a government change in 2013, and therefore also the Christian People's Party and the Left signed an agreement with the government in 2013 to establish new rules for long-term children. For the left, the long-term children were the very starting point for such an agreement. While the previous government, led by the Workers' Party, had given priority to throwing out children who had lived long in Norway, it was established by the Solberg government that while waiting for new rules for the long-term children, the group was no longer to be prioritised on broadcasts, as was the case under the Red-Green Government. Here we are already at the heart of the matter. For the Left, it is most critical that the State Council Anundsen has not adhered to the agreement of his party and government with the Left and Christian People's Party. The policy change agreed was not implemented. The State Council may at some point have thought that it was actually implemented, but this case has shown that it did not – then. Fortunately, the policy change is now in place, which has resulted in a good deal of long-term asylum children actually remaining in Norway, and that those who were sent out in autumn 2014 and which this matter is largely about will be tried again – against the new legislation now in force. In view of this, a number of suggestions were made in the Official Journal of Bergen in December 2014 which is the basis for the matter we are now dealing with. It is a good piece of journalistic work in BT and a piece of political work in the Ministry of Justice. Then, of course, you can ask yourself whether this was not something the Left and Christian People's Party itself should have revealed. That is a good question, but as early as October, Left raised this with the Minister of Justice several times. The representative Iselin Nybø sent a question to the Minister of Justice on 3 October 2014 and received the following reply on 8 October: ‘The priority given to long-term asylum children for emigration has not been given any political leadership.’ The left raised the same issue in the persuasion debate, where the Council of State was present, and on 6 October 2014 the same question was asked in this Chamber. Then the Council of State said: ‘I am very pleased with that question – we have not done so.’ And then he said, ‘We have re-established, in this way, that it is not those who have been here for a long time to be given priority, but children’s families in general, so that a link can be established between the time of the decision and the time of the broadcast, in order to avoid situations where children remain for a very long time in Norway. But the government has not sent any signals to give priority to a long-term child in order to send them more quickly to the front of a code. That, I believe, would also be an unacceptable act in relation to the contractual relationship that the government has with the Left and Christian People's Party." This was what the Council of State said in this room. In reality, then, the Council of State said that what has actually happened is an unacceptable act with regard to the agreement that the government has with the Left and Christian People's Party. I fully agree with that. That is why it was also quite clear that this was being cleared up, and that we now have an agreement which involves a significant policy change towards long-term asylum children, how much more is to be achieved than was the case under the previous government, under the Workers' Party. It has always been crucial for the Left – politics, not tactics. A number of headlines in the media, mainly in BT, and the Committee’s own consultation have revealed a number of critical issues that are anything but acceptable. This concerns both the internal communication between the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate, the communication between the Police Directorate and the underlying agencies, the communication with the Foreign Affairs Department, and the fact that the Minister of Justice is pushing the whole responsibility for the lack of follow-up to the so-called policy change down the system. It is obvious that the management of the Ministry of Justice did little or nothing to ensure that this policy change was perceived and implemented. None of the findings of the audit hearing indicate that the Ministry of Justice, through several governing dialogue meetings with the Police Directorate and the Police Foreign Affairs Unit, at any time addressed the underlying bodies that the change in the wording of the letter of assignment would constitute a clear policy change to which these bodies should relate. And a clear policy change: I stand by what I said in the media early in the case: one must almost have been a dream interpreter in the Police Directorate in order to perceive the so-called clear policy change of the Minister of Justice. And despite several clear indirect and direct calls for clarification, the Council of State did little to nothing. It is also clear that, in the autumn of 2014, there was a significant shift in the pace of sending long-term asylum children, contrary to what it was possible, within reasonable limits, to interpret the replies of the Council of State in the Stortinge in the same harvest. It is striking, in my view, that the Minister of Justice showed little or no interest in following up or ensuring that the policy change towards long-term asylum children was followed up, but at the same time showed great zeal and enthusiasm for achieving the target for returns set for 2014. It seems that the only government council was sincerely concerned about and sincerely engaged in, were targets, not of the asylum agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. It appeared at the hearing that the control committee carried out on 6 February of this year, in particular: on questions from the undersigned to the trusted leader Geir Petter Pettersen in PU, that it was not possible to reach this figure by any other means than to transport more long-term asylum children. On direct questions about it felt unfair for PU employees in September to have to go to long-term families of children and not have as much focus on criminals to manage to reach the new, large figures, Pettersen replied: ‘Yes, that’s what I’m saying: we always want to focus on the criminals, and that it should be priority number. 1st@item: inlistbox That's why I said that we might have too high a focus on the figures after we got the new leaders, because we had to redispatch." Several unsubstantiated allegations have also been made by the Minister of Justice that there has been an opportunity for several returns to Afghanistan which despite repeated questions have not been shown to be the case. We still know little about what concrete new thing did, and we do, that the Council of State refers to it as opening up an opportunity. Moreover, the ex post reaction pattern of Afghan authorities is not based on the explanation provided by the Council of State. It should probably have called a bell in the department when you got, and received, messages from PU with these kinds of wordings: ‘It is possible, however, that the fact that a family of children is forced to return, in and on a separate basis, may create media attention or other reactions, in particular with regard to: Government Platform and Four-Party Notice on the so-called amnesty to certain families with children. However, the PU has not received any guidance on detention against this group and is therefore carrying out the intended out-of-carriage operations.» With all due respect for the fact that this is a kind of standard formulation or long-term practice that the Progress Party and the Right claim, there should at least have been a signal that the PU had not registered any policy change, and that should have led at least to a small control check. Rather, it is hardly a particularly lengthy practice that PU refers to the agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government parties. So these messages that came from the PU, they reached the Council of State. As can be seen from the setting, the back cover of this control case is at the bottom of the fate of individuals. In the debate on long-term children of asylum, proposals were put forward on two occasions in the United Kingdom in 2014 to put matters at risk to all long-term children pending the entry into force of the new legislation. The information provided by the Council of State on this matter may have had an impact on voting in the Grand Duchy. The information provided by the Council of State may also have had an impact on other policy initiatives which could lead to other solutions for the children concerned. The opinion concludes that the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party reject this as a ‘specific criticism’, as they call it. If there's something that's critical, then in that case it's the trifling of criticism by these parties. I don't think any of the proposals on long-term asylum children that we are talking about here had a majority. The working party had in any case set up a strictest policy, they are the guarantor himself. Last night, Jonas Gahr Støre said in the newspaper that the Labour Party's policy in the field is firm, even after they have tried to send other signals after their national meeting. And Stoltenberg saw something like the most important change with Soria Moria II was that there was a more stringent asylum policy. The Labour Party has been, is and will appear to remain the strictest party for asylum seekers, but I can confirm that the information provided by the Council of State had an impact on the Left's voting in the same cases. Fortunately, we now have a new policy in place. It hasn't been easy, to put it straight out. The control case relating to the dispatch of long-term asylum children has revealed more critical aspects. On the one hand, it has been found that the Council of State has not provided sufficient information to the Government, and on the other hand, it has been revealed that the underlying bodies of the Council of State have not understood, would understand or followed up the instructions and policy changes notified by the Council of State. It has also been revealed that the Council of State did little to ensure that the agreed and announced policy change was actually followed up. In addition, it has been discovered that a significant number of long-term asylum children were sent out during 2014, which does not appear to be consistent with the State Council itself stated in Stortinget on several occasions, and which I have referred to earlier in my post. In a lessening direction, the Council of State at all of these points has both regretted and recognised that there have been some major shortcomings in the overall management of these issues. However, the most worrying aspect of the Left’s eyes is that, as a result of the lack of governance and the absence of the policy change behind the majority in the United Kingdom, asylum seekers were sent out in 2014 who could have been given that the notified policy change had actually been implemented. Fortunately, these have now had an opportunity to try their cases again, for a new legislation. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice to make sure that it does now without undue delay, and would like to give us an update on how this work is progressing forward. I must also say that I am not only a little surprised by the main motivation of the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, to support a motion of censure against the Minister of Justice and Defence when he spoke to the Dayrevy on 18 March 2015: ‘The Minister of Justice has described a policy change that we now know has not taken place.’ So it is the Labour Party's reason for the mistrust that the Minister of Justice has described a policy change that we now know has not taken place. If such a justification is to be used as a basis for mistrust, a whole new parliamentary practice has been established. It is reasonably easy to refer to a number of so-called policy changes notified to the previous government, which did not take place. This applies not least to Gahr Støre himself, as for example. notified a cancer guarantee that had never taken place, or the construction of 12,000 sick homes that had never taken place. The promise to eliminate poverty in Norway, or to shed light on old age care before a single penny was given in tax relief, is also a shining example of notified policy changes that did not take place. I agree that it is very critical that the policy changes that a majority in the European Parliament is behind are not followed up by the current government, but that in itself is not a basis for distrust in Parliament. The distrust is expressed by the voters in elections, as they did in the fall of 2013 because of the lack of fulfilment of announced policy changes, and it is worth remembering here also the former long-standing Minister of Justice of the Workers' Party, Knut Storberget, who year after year guaranteed that the police were doing well, even as late as the year before July 22nd in this room. The Gjørv Commission's report revealed a completely different truth from what the Council of State had communicated. It is also the case that the notified policy change has now actually taken place by establishing on 5 December 2014 a new section 8-5 of the Regulation of Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, in which it is unequivocally stated that the child’s residence and relation to Norway should be given greater weight than in the past by balancing against immigration-regulating considerations, a policy change that clearly intends to allow several long-term children to stay. The change in policy ensures far better rights for long-term asylum children than was the case under the previous government, and as the former vice-chairman of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, to the NRK as late as February 6th this year, states that it is firm, although she had to use 24 attempts to clearly answer that very question. All the experience with the Workers' Party in the last 20 years suggests that this is also the case in the future. The Labour Party in the government position has led a uncompromising policy towards asylum-seekers. That's why the invitation to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vegar Solhell, sent out to the Left and the Christian People's Party in the Newspaper yesterday about a broad cooperation between the centre and the left side of politics, well-intentioned enough, but very little realistic. I fully agree with Mr Snorre Serigstad Valen’s party colleague Snorre Serigstad in the post he printed in Dagbladet on 10 April this year under the heading: ‘Ap’s opportunism in the asylum child case is the most cowardly thing I’ve ever seen in Norwegian politics.’ Serigstad Valen wrote, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘Ap is hiding behind fog and bureaucratic postulates on ‘justice and rigour’. Have no illusions about what kind of asylum policy we get about the Workers' Party forms government alone in 2017." Finally, I must say that I am horrified at three things in this matter. I am horrified that we have a Minister of Justice who obviously felt it was more important to meet the target number of shipments than to follow the political agreement the government had with the Left and Christian People's Party. I am horrified that the Right Party and the Progressive Party both in the position and so far in this debate debats this matter and almost claims that none of what the Minister of Justice has done is critical – and, like the Council of State, the responsibility is transferred to the Police Directorate and others. I am horrified that the Workers' Party is using this case for tactical games and is distrustful that a policy change The Labour Party disagreed with, has not taken place. It's not for believers. In this case, the State Council Anundsen has acted in a way that is highly critical. The question is whether the Council of State has breached its obligation to provide information as it follows under the Basic Law § 82. It can be discussed, but it is not obvious to me and to the Left that this is the case. It is perhaps a good legal reflection I have brought with me in my capacity as a parliamentarian now, that in such cases of doubt it is natural that the doubt comes to light, in this case the Council of State Anundsen, for the benefit of the good. The left, therefore, does not support, after an overall assessment, the mistrust proposal against the Council of State Anundsen, but, in order to return to the confidence of the Left, the Council of State Anundsen has a good deal of work ahead of it. I take this up with the Left's proposal in the vote, and at the same time advises subsidiary support for proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Greens' Greens' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e926	The representative Abid Q. Raja has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e931	The representative Raja raised several issues in the post that I might have intended to comment on, but I choose to deal with the matter that lies within the control committee – the control mission. That's why we're here. What I want to ask the representative, Raja, is that the representative says that the minister has complained. There are several people who have developed and pointed out. But can the representative confirm that the minister has not complained that he said that the police had perceived the change, which never occurred, and that the minister has not complained that he informed that there was an opportunity to return to Afghanistan, even if the Afghan authorities say otherwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e936	In danger of having missed out on all the complaints made by the Council of State, I do not have a numerical overview of it. But I have got the impression that the Council of State has strictly not complained that he has failed himself. That is what we called for in the hearing of the Committee on Control. What he has so much regretted, if I have understood correctly, is that the Police Directorate did not take the signals, that people under him did not take the signals – and initially did not regret that he himself has not done the job he has been assigned to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e941	Just to make it quite clear: The representative Raja agrees with me that it has not been recorded that the minister has complained that he first said that the police had perceived the change that came, even though the police had not realized that the change was coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e946	Yes, there may be a lot of ways to express a complaint. In any case, I was told that the Council of State formulated a complaint from the pulpit here. That regret was also expressed, probably in a few other words, when he was at the hearing, and it may be that we are getting a third type of wording and regret from the pulpit today. I think it has been quite right for the Council of State to actually complain. The important thing for the Left has been that you actually help clean up. If errors have occurred during one's watch, then it should not end up with the citizen, and if the complaint is first given, it must also help to restore those errors. As far as I can see, you have later helped to do that. I hope, at least, that the changes in the rules that have taken place will contribute to the creation of more asylum children, and also that those who have been sent out incorrectly, contrary to what should be a clear policy change, will have the opportunity to return to Norway if the conditions for that change are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e951	After hearing a post that had so much attention to the agreement between the supporting parties and the government parties, I must say that that agreement must have been written very unclear – when it has led to such a high intensity all along, and is repeated in this way here now. The representative Raja speaks of them being ‘grunted’ over three aspects and ends up being ‘highly critical’. «Highly critical» in this context is in the case of the constitutional. I must be so disrespectful that I have to ask: what is it that constitutionally is so critical of what the Council of State has done? It did not appear clearly in the statements made by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e956	If it didn't come out clearly what I explained for over 20 minutes, I don't think it's going to get any clearer during this one minute I have at my disposal. I'm referring to the post I've been making, and then you can go through the Minutes and read and put yourself thoroughly into the argument I just had from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e961	It is true that there was a long post, which went a lot on the agreement, that went on what is outside the control committee. But I would be so bold to ask the representative to repeat for 1 minute what is constitutionally critical. It may not be very difficult when you have had such an oasis to take off, as the representative gives the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e966	I made a thorough presentation of this in a 20-minute article. Making a tabloid version of this in less than 1 minute doesn't mean anything. I'm referring to the long post I made, and then you'd like to put yourself in the record to get an overall impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e972	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e975	This matter has revealed quite a number of problems with the political handling of an important matter, but I can start by thanking the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for a thorough and informative work, thanking the case rapporteur for a good job and, of course, thanking Bergen's Official Journal, and after every other press, for doing his job in an alert manner. In general, the Greens join the vast majority of the criticisms made against the Minister of Justice – there are only some shades in which we draw a formal conclusion from it. I'm going to use my post mainly to explain that conclusion. But I also want to say something about what we think is a lesson that the Storting should draw from this matter, on behalf of the children that it actually applies to, and the democracy that we represent. First to our conclusion in the control case: The Green Party believes that the government council Anundsen and the majority of the population must share the responsibility for sending more long-term children out in 2014 than in previous years. We believe that the Council of State has acted clearly critically on several points, but we do not believe that there is a basis for distrust, which is quite specific as to whether or not the Council of State has breached the obligation to provide information. In our view, it has been clear from both debates in the Grand Duchy during 2014 and in the Supervisory Hearing of the Grand Duchy on 6 February 2015 that Minister of Justice and Emergency Affairs Anundsen showed very little critical interest in clarifying uncertainty and clarifying the crackdown on government policy on the deployment of long-term asylum children. Several months passed in 2014 when almost no one in Norway, possibly including the Council of State, could know what was actually Norwegian broadcasting practice, because this was not clarified. The Greens believe that it is particularly serious that the Council of State did not provide greater transparency and clarity around a matter of such great interest to the Storting and the public. One key point is that public expectations were created that fewer long-term asylum children should be sent out of the country, as a result of the agreement between the government and the supporting parties, the Left and Christian People's Party, on regulatory changes that would focus more on the best interests of children. These expectations do not seem to suggest that any of the government parties or supporting parties tried to clarify or nuance, since the fact is that long-term asylum children were never protected, and that the agreement that the best of children was to count more was not to enter into force until 1 December 2014. In such a situation, the Council of State, by all means, should have foreseen the need to correct and clarify the wrong impression given to the Stortinget, at an earlier date than in the persuasion debate on 6 October 2014. By October 2014, as many as 76 children with a residence period of more than four years had already been transported that year. These are figures on which the Council of State should have full control, taking into account the political interest in this topic. The Greens believe that it is important to keep the tongue straight in your mouth as regards whether or not the disclosure obligation has been complied with, as is the leading point of the motion of censure. Mistletoe is a serious matter, and it should mean that the violation of the Stortinge is great. With respect for the rest of the political everyday life at Stortinget, which is richly provided with very misguided answers to many kinds of questions, the Environment Party of the Greens does not see that the deviation of the Council of States from the level of precision in information is far too great – unfortunately, one can add. Furthermore, in the case of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, information received by the Storting must be decisive and not the content of the policy it is informed of. The Greens will not support the policy of the government on asylum issues, and we are just as divided in the practice of the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens already introduced several years ago, where the institution of asylum has since been very rigorously guided by general targets, at the expense of humanitarian commitments. However, if one goes into the archives – and the Greens have done so – it seems that the government council of Anundsen in the throne debate on 6 October 2014 gave a fairly good account both of its interpretation of the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the supporting parties and of what the government has done to ensure that fewer long-term asylum children are sent out. Here the Council of State makes it clear that the government has ‘softened the focus’, as it is called, in the letter of assignment to the POD, so that long-term children are specifically no longer prioritised for broadcasting more than families with children in general. In the same speech, the Council of State points out that increased general targets also lead to more asylum children being sent out, and that long-term asylum children are part of this group, bearing in mind that families with children are still a group that police are to focus their resources on sending out — a so-called priority group for deployment. However, we believe it is highly critical that the Council of State did not itself see the need to provide more information in this or later articles in the Stortinget, such as informing about the action plan that the Foreign Affairs Department had designed to achieve the 2014 target, and that this specifically did not protect long-term children. But even though we strongly disagree with the policy, we cannot see that the Council of State has actively misled the Stortinget by holding back central information that the Stortinget itself should not have understood, on the basis of the policy that was well known. With regard to the so-called possibility of returning to Afghanistan, the Greens, like all other opposition and supporting parties, believe that it is also clear that the Council of State has been so vague and partly misleading to the Storting and the Committee of Control and Constitutional Affairs, but we do not fully see that the phrase ‘opened an opportunity’ can be a direct misstatement to the Storting. This phrase is very woolly, but it is not central enough to the substance of the matter to provide the basis for mistrust under the Basic Law § 82. State Council Anundsen's concept of what it means that a return option opens is clearly something other than the Green Party's concept of the same, and we therefore believe it is critical that he did not explain this better when he had such a good opportunity to do so in the hearing. To sum up, the size must be able to expect, after the disclosure requirement set out in the Basic Law § 82, that government members do significantly more than the Anundsen has done to keep themselves and the Stortinge up to date, and to ensure that messages in key policy areas are understood and followed up by the underlying agencies. The Greens therefore believe that the Council of State has acted critically on many points. However, the Stortinget has received sufficient information both to understand, and to some extent to predict, that there would be an increase in the return of long-term asylum children in 2014. The government told the government that families with children, including long-term children, remain a priority group for broadcasting – alongside, and not subordinate to, among others. criminals — in a situation where, in addition, the target number of forced return was increased by 400 persons, to 7,100 in the middle of the year. In this case, the Greens have reacted to the fact that the majority of the population, all except the Greens and Greens, on the one hand, decide to increase the targets for forced return in 2014 and even in the middle of the year, while one on the other hand is upset in the media that families with children are being sent out of the country, when nothing else has actually been disclosed by the Council of State. Yes, we have to respond when the legal certainty of these children is as poor as it is, and yes, we have to respond when the Council of State is not more explicit on the priorities to be made to achieve the targets, but the Storting has been mildly said little alert when – with the exception of SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens – they support this sudden increase in the number of forced withdrawals in the middle of the year and subsequently are horrified by the consequences. The Green Party believes that the most serious thing that was revealed in the hearing on these asylum children was the systematic lack of legal certainty for persons who are being forced to return to a state machinery that is systematically rigged to achieve a political target for returns, and an increase of this. In such a system, measurement will easily thwart human judgements – and this is made very clear from the levels even during the hearings – and so it is a machine that weakens a personal legal protection that should have had a naturally highest priority. The Norwegian authorities are obliged under international law not to return persons to areas where they are at risk of persecution, but today there are no mechanisms to ensure that up-to-date assessments are carried out before asylum seekers leave the country, even if they have waited a long time, and their situation may have changed a lot. They have the right to such an up-to-date assessment if they are able to engage a lawyer, or others, who requests a restatement of the decision, or someone does so on their own. But there is no free legal aid, nor is there any information from the authorities about the rights of these people or how they can obtain help. Had it been automatic that long-term asylum children had their case reviewed before they were sent out, as it is for criminals, more of the children we are discussing in this matter would probably not have been sent out. Long-term asylum children are known to be in a special position because they may be allowed to stay because of links with Norway. This is different from the need for protection assessed in the original asylum application. On 18 March of this year, the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police was instructed not to engage in forced dispatches of some long-term families of children, but the instructions apply to only a few families of children — they are with at least four and a half years of residence in Norway who have not been assessed in accordance with new regulations from December last year. Those who are being coerced are also not just families of children, although there are children who have been most focused on in the negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party. The government and the partners still do not provide any new legal certainty for other persons who may have new grounds for stay, due to, for example: changes related to the person himself, conditions in the country of origin or Norwegian asylum practices. Asylum seekers who are coerced after waiting a long time for return are a small group, and this group is even smaller if you only look at the families of children. But this is a vulnerable group, which is confronted with a system that is today guided by measurement numbers. When these figures are suddenly increased in the middle of the year and the police are getting extra busy, it is the legal certainty of the people involved who are being tested. The Green Party has therefore called for up-to-date assessments of forced dispatch if the refusal of asylum is more than one year old. There is a lot both in a person’s life and in the situation in the home country that may have changed during this time, which is relevant to Norway’s obligations to comply with international law. We'll come back with such a suggestion in the autumn, hopefully together with several other parties. So the Greens do not support the motion of censure, but we support the proposal promoted by the Greens, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Greens' Greens' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1019	The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the European Parliament has a very important role to play. It shall carry out in a thorough and credible manner the essential part of the control function of the Storting pursuant to the Constitution, and the Committee shall depend on the necessary trust and weight of such a demanding task. I myself have had the pleasure of running the committee for four years before I became the Council of State. I have therefore known the weight of the Committee's responsibility to ensure legitimacy in parliamentary control. For that reason, I also know the seriousness of a control case. I notice that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe that the obligation to provide information is breached by law. There is serious criticism in the vote, and I take that criticism seriously. At the same time, there is strong disagreement about several of the claims underlying the criticism of the three parties mentioned in the suspension, as well as in the interpretation of facts in several areas. The obligation to provide information is a fundamental constitutional and political duty on the part of both the government as such and the individual Council of State in dealing with matters under its constitutional responsibility. It is important for me to stress that, in my role as the Council of State, I do of course do what is possible to ensure that the Storting gets the information the Storing needs to be informed, by fulfilling both the passive and the active disclosure obligation. In this case, it is necessary to review some of the facts of the case, for the cancellation and submissions today show that there is disagreement as to the facts to be taken into account. The case has several starting points, but I choose to start with my answer to a question from the representative Trine Skei Grande, who has been involved in earlier today, in the line change during the throne debate on 6 October 2014. The representative asked if I had given any notice in the system that would give us a massive transmission of former asylum children prior to the entry into force of a new legislation. I answered that question, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘I’m very pleased with that question – we haven’t. We have increased the number of returns in general, and this also leads to more people being sent out. But what we have done in this regard is that we have actually raised the focus of our letter of assignment in relation to the previous government." So I make it clear that it's through the letter of assignment that there's been a change. On the other hand, I replied, among other things.\t\t You can change ‘The previous government said in 2013 that cases involving children who have stayed for a long time in Norway without authorisation shall be given priority. We've done it over, so that it's not the ones who've been here for a long time, that's the priority, but the children's families in general, so that we get a connection between the time of the decision and the time of the broadcast, in order to avoid situations where children stay for a very long time in Norway. But the government has not sent any signals to give priority to a long-term child in order for a person to send them out more quickly in advance of a regulation." This was a change in the letter of assignment that I took the initiative to do, and since it has been claimed in the media that this change was part of the agreement between the four cooperation parties, I find it reasonable to stress that this is not the case. The content of the reply to the Storting is consistent with the actual conditions. As the Storting is known, the letter of allocation shall be followed by the separate disposal records. There has been an error in the transition from the letter of assignment to the letter of disposal, by disclosing a different priority from the one contained in the letter of assignment in the letter of disposal. I regret that mistake in Stortinget on 2 December last year. I do not know what the consequences of this error may have resulted in, in addition to referring to what appeared in the verification hearing on the case, and the information I provided to the Committee in my reply letter. Several media have also claimed that the change I made in the letter of assignment would lead to the long-standing former asylum child being screened from dispatch. It's also wrong. It has never been possible to screen long-term from the return, but they should be prioritised in line with other matters where children were involved. On two occasions in 2014, the Storting rejected proposals to suspend the handling of these cases. It's important to me as a state councillor to be a good leader, take responsibility and show trust. In the setting some parties criticize me for pushing the responsibility for a bug down the system because I have explained what had actually happened. I'll take that criticism for information. However, I believe it is difficult to fulfil a Council of State's obligation to provide information to Stortinget without explaining what has actually happened in specific cases. In this case, I have been quite clear that the responsibility for what has happened is mine. I have also been clear – and taken for granted self-criticism – that the Department could discover that the Police Directorate misrepresented the leaders of the previous government, because we got a copy of the disposal note. However, it was not read by us for the purpose of checking whether the content was in accordance with the letter of allocation. This has led to a change in the procedures in the Ministry for the follow-up to documents relating to the follow-up to the letter of award, of which we receive a copy. Then it's always easy to try to explain an actual relationship like poor leadership and disclaimer. That there is such a waiver of liability, I strongly reject it. It is not, and has never been, any doubt that the responsibility for the error that has occurred is mine. I was also ready for this in my complaint to Stortinget on 2 December. I also believe that it is good leadership to have confidence that the underlying agencies are carefully reviewing and following up the letter of assignment. However, there is no guarantee that errors can occur. People who are trusted will experience that they sometimes make mistakes. It's part of being human. Good leadership is also giving the employees responsibility. Such a leadership philosophy must also allow for errors and routine failures to occur, which we must use in a learning process that will make us stronger in the future. I also believe that good leadership is about a combination of trust and responsibility in all parts of an organisation. It is important to prevent the powdering of responsibilities and it is important to ensure clear management lines. However, it will not reduce the responsibility of the senior executive in any way. The change in the letter of assignment was intended as a change in the Workers' Party; The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Government's policy of prioritising the deployment of long-standing former asylum children. It was a deliberate political choice. I have also expressed this to Stortinget in the past. The majority of the Committee believes that this policy change should have been more clearly followed up by me to ensure that it was actually implemented. I believe that the change in the allocation letter initially appears to be clear. However, there is a linguistic change and it could provide a basis for assessing a specific follow-up. In retrospect, one can also see that the change in the letter of assignment could have been even more explicit, and perhaps in particular that the letter of reply to the Directorate of Police on their letter of 14 March 2014 should have been clearer. I have also written this to the Committee on 19 December last year, and I have expressed in the verification hearing that this has provided a basis for learning. However, I would like to point out that there was nothing in the figures prior to the month report by the Foreign Affairs Department on the return of September, received by the Department on 9 October, which could indicate that the change in the letter of assignment was possibly not perceived by the Police Directorate. The number of long-standing former asylum children returned per month was relatively low until September. At the same time, Stortinget had joined up to increased return requirements, which meant that the total number of shipments per month would be higher than for previous years. The Ministry of Justice and Defence received a number of alerts from the Directorate of Police on returns in general, in cases where there was reason to believe that there could be a media review of the case. This is an established practice to ensure that the ministry is prepared if the media contacts individual matters or if political management is to travel to an area where individual matters create involvement. The majority of the Committee considers that the wording of these alerts should provide a basis for specific reaction and be interpreted as an indication that the Police Directorate had not understood the change in the letter of assignment. I would like to point out that the content of the alerts is partly reflected in the setting, but I find reason to stress that what is actually there, is essentially merely the finding of a fact: ‘It is possible, however, that the fact that a family of children is forced to return may in itself give media attention or other reactions, in particular to the Government Platform and the Four-Party Notice. amnesty for certain families with children.» This part of the alert does not refer to the length of the stay of the family but only to the fact that it is a family of children. Then the notice also includes details of the specific individual cases, but I do not touch it further here. Furthermore, the warning states: ‘However, the PU has not received any guidance on detention against this group and is therefore carrying out the intended out-of-carriage operations.’ It is clear that it has never been possible to show any restraint in the transport of families without protection. On the contrary, it has been made quite clear in the letter of award that families with children without protection are to be given priority for transport. I therefore find it a little difficult to understand that someone believes that these alerts should provide a basis for special follow-up, or that the alerts should give a signal that the Foreign Affairs Department or the Police Directorate had not registered a change in the letter of assignment. The letter of allocation clearly states that families with children without a need for protection should be given priority over return. The question must therefore be whether there is any indication in the alert that long-term families without protection are given priority over the return of other families without protection. I believe that there is no basis for claiming that these alerts actually do. I also point out that the majority of the committee in the vote believes that I, among other things, in the one-minute reply to the representative, Skei Grande, on 6 October, failed to disclose any facts which they consider relevant. Firstly, the police alienation unit had put in place a plan of measures which, according to the majority, could have consequences for the posting of long-term children. This was an action plan which the Ministry was not involved in the preparation of or had been submitted. The implementation by the agencies of measures to achieve the objectives set out in this room is generally positive. The Foreign Affairs Unit of the police has stated that it was not an objective of the action plan to increase the return of long-term families with no need for protection. From the PU side, the focus was on returning to the countries to which it was actually possible to return. In addition, in the material transmitted to the Control and Constitutional Committee, it appears that the Directorate of Police of 13 June 2014, i.e. a good time before the meeting mentioned in August 2014, asked the Police Foreign Affairs Unit for an overview of planned measures to achieve the performance requirement in the asylum category for 2014. Secondly, the number of long-term families with no need for protection sent out in September 2014 was unusually high. The Ministry received a report on the returns for September 9 October 2014, i.e. three days after my short reply. Thirdly, the practice of return to Afghanistan was changed, so that from January 2014 families with no need for protection were sent back to the country at a progressive pace. Until September, the number of children’s families returned without a need for protection to Afghanistan was relatively modest. It was the previous government that opened the way for the return of families with no need for protection to Afghanistan, after a shorter period of restrictions, and it took some time for the foreign authorities to obtain such return in practice. The question from Skei Grande was whether there were signals sent by the government to prioritize the return of long-term families of children prior to a new regulation. It was not, and the return practice of individual countries seems somewhat peripheral to the question. Fourthly, on 24 September 2014, a charter plane went to Nigeria, where 26 long-term children were returned. As mentioned above, the Ministry received notice of this return to Nigeria in the monthly report of the Directorate of Police, which came to the Ministry on 9 October 2014. I think it is demanding to defend that the obligation to provide information includes information that was not available to the ministry at the time, both in terms of answers to the written questions and in terms of the response in the correspondence during the debate. I will now turn to the question of whether by quoting a letter from the Police Directorate in my reply to the Committee on 19 December 2014 I have given incorrect information or misled the Stortinget. The cancellation claimed that I should have written in a letter dated 19 December that the police had understood and understood the policy change that the letter of assignment was supposed to be. That's not exactly what I'm talking about. The correct thing is that in my reply to the Committee, I refer to a letter from the Police Directorate sent to the Committee and quote from the letter in question. The question is what the Directorate of Police has seen in the letter of allocation in this area. In a letter to the Department on 8 December 2014, the Police Directorate wrote: ‘The police have understood the wording that ‘Cases dealing with children shall be prioritised’ as a guide that long-term children shall not be given priority over other broadcasts.’ The same letter says: ‘However, we would stress that the police have understood and based the Ministry of Justice’s leadership in the 2014 letter of award in relation to outbound transport.’ This is actual information on how the police themselves believe they have perceived what was stated in the letter of assignment. The State Council's information obligation also includes the question of what the police have perceived or not, and it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the information provided by the underlying agency is correct. However, this creates a difficult balancing process precisely in the interests of the same disclosure obligation. On the one hand, the Storting will be required to provide information from the underlying agency on how they have experienced the leadership in an allocation letter. On the other hand, the Council of State may, by providing such information, be harmed in order to misinform the Storting if the Etate changes its perception of how they have understood the leadership later. In this respect, one might claim that in this case it leads to a sort of catch 22 situation, where it would be wrong to give the Storting the information in question, but on the other hand it would be equally wrong to leave it. It is in this area that the opposition's strongest opinion is that incorrect information has been given to the Storing. I will therefore allow myself to quote Fredrik Sejersted's starting point on such matters, from the book Control and Constitution: ‘It’s hard to tell others about something you don’t know. The scope of the obligation to provide information must depend on what information the government or the individual Council of State has. Thus, although it can subsequently be ascertained that material information in a case has not reached the Storting, it has not been stated that the obligation to provide information has been breached if the Council of State was unaware.» It was only during the inspection hearing in Stortinget that I realized that the police director had changed his view of what was in the letter of assignment, and that they no longer understood what they wrote they had understood on December 8, 2014. In this context I also refer to my introduction to the inspection hearing, where this was commented on. So I informed the Storting that the information I had quoted from the Police Directorate's letter in my letter to the Committee on 19 December was wrong, as soon as it was practically possible after I myself became aware of it. In my reply to the Committee on 19 December last year, I also wrote that the number of children returned in 2014 has increased as a result of the Stortinget's stated return target, and that the proportion of children returned in 2014 has decreased in relation to the period 2010–2013. I get criticism in the vote for drawing out a number that is beneficial for my presentation of the case, but that has no particular relevance to the matter. Some members of the Committee consider this to be an unfortunate use of numerical material. I would like, just for the sake of order, to stress that this was drawn out during my general introduction to the letter. And on page 2, fourth section, I'll write, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Before I respond specifically to the questions raised by the Committee, I would like to describe the situation as it has been and is today’. In this general review I described, among other things: the reception situation, the number of persons on reception with an exit obligation at the time of the government change, and the positive developments after the government change. I wrote about the coherence of the asylum chain and the priorities of the police. There are also a number of different numbers in this general section. I hope that it will still be an opportunity for a Council of State to give a complete picture, as I also wrote in the letter that I would do before I went over to the committee's specific questions. I would also like to stress that in the communication to the Committee, in response to specific questions, statistics were attached for the return of children with a longer residence period. I will now go over to the question of whether or not it opened a return option. I want to divide that question into two parts, where one will deal with the returnability of Nigeria, and the other to Afghanistan. Nigeria halted the possibility of forced repatriation of Nigerian citizens from the summer of 2013 due to disagreements related to some child protection issues, where Norwegian child protection took over the care of Nigerian children. For a longer period of time, it was not possible to force the return of children's families without the need for protection to Nigeria because of this. During 2014, Nigeria changed its position on this issue and opened up the possibility of implementing such a return to Nigeria. I think it is quite clear that the term ‘opened up an opportunity’ illustrates in a good way the change that allowed for such forced return. With regard to the situation of return of families with no need for protection to Afghanistan, there was a significantly longer process. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Government removed the temporary restriction on the possibility of the return of families without protection in August 2013. Since then, the authorities have tried to put in place a system of Afghan authorities that ensures that they receive their own citizens, including families with children. There was extensive diplomatic dialogue between the Norwegian and Afghan authorities. The Foreign Service reports that since 2012, they have been working to get the opportunity to return children’s families to Afghanistan. Only a short period of summer 2013 was given leadership from the Department that return to Afghanistan was to apply only to lone males. These leaders were thus cancelled by the previous government in August 2013, and work on the possibility of returning families with children was resumed. The Norwegian authorities carried out the first forced return of families with no need for protection to Afghanistan in January 2014. It was the result of a work that started already under the previous government. In 2014, more and more families of children with no need for protection were returned to Afghanistan, and it was implemented as part of the dialogue it was, and still is, between the authorities of the two countries. Thus, there was an opportunity to return families with children by accepting coercion-returned families in Afghanistan in this process. I would also like to stress that when the term ‘opened up an opportunity’ was used, it was by reference to both Nigeria and Afghanistan collectively, explaining why several long-term families of children were returned in the autumn of 2014. So the question, as a user of some attention in the setting, is whether a based on this factual basis can use the notion that ‘it opened up a possibility’ of return. I believe that a natural understanding of the concept can be related to the actual outcome of the dialogue between the Norwegian and Nigerian and Afghan authorities. The result was that one could start with the return of families with no need for protection. However, it is understandable that someone can perceive this differently, but the question in this case is whether the use of the term helps to mislead or misinform the Storting. I think that's drawing it too far. A point has been made that the Afghan authorities have notified a request for renegotiation of the tripartite agreement between Afghanistan, Norway and UNHCR and stop in forced return until a new agreement is in place. This notified the Afghan authorities of Norway on 28 May 2013, when the Labour Party headed the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In this respect, a claim has been made that there should be a kind of link between the return of families without protection and the notice of renegotiation of the tripartite agreement. I don't think it's a perfect connection. Retention is controversial in Afghanistan, and on several occasions the Afghan authorities have wanted to renegotiate the agreement with some different reasons. It also happened on several occasions during the previous government. At the same time, the dialogue between the Norwegian and Afghan authorities has been good, and we have had good cooperation on returns. I would like to stress that after I have been informed, the Afghan authorities have not at any time notified that they wish to terminate the agreement. Asylum and immigration policy is one of the policy areas in which the Norwegian parties differ most. The range of policies leads to a higher level of conflict in this policy area than in most other areas. This political distance was also found in the red-green government, which led to a much stricter policy towards long-standing former asylum children than the current government does. The reason for this is that the four cooperation parties have concluded a good and well-balanced cooperation agreement in this area, although the political distance is great. There is reason to point out that the legislation now in place to better protect the interests of children, including in the cases where parents have avoided compulsory departure, is a legislation that the previous government could introduce, but was allowed to introduce. It is a regulation that the Labour Party was opposed to, until it was introduced. The policy that was pursued during the period when the police did not follow the leaders of the letter of assignment from a new government was, therefore, the policy that the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left agreed to be pursued. I mention it because I believe it gives an interesting back cover for the matter. I also allow myself to mention that I am very pleased with the agreement reached on 8 April between the four cooperation parties on a supplement to the asylum agreement. With this agreement, we have again illustrated that we are able to reach agreement on adjustments in asylum and immigration policy – both through decorations and restraints. There are three main reasons the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe that I have not satisfactorily informed the Stortinget according to the Constitution § 82. I have gone through the three relationships and a little bit more in this post, and I find that I disagree with the presentation of the case by these parties in the relevant areas. However, I have taken self-criticism in several areas where things could, and should, have been done differently. The obligation to provide information is an indisputable rule of law in accordance with the majority of the committee described in its opinion. However, it is also a political rule that would quickly prevail if one believes that the rule of law is not broken. Today, the legal and political obligation to provide information is indistinguishably distinguished, but there is still a significant difference. I take note of the fact that no party has been asked to initiate the responsibilities commission of the Storting in order to carry out an objective assessment of whether or not the information obligation has been breached legally. As I have explained, I do not believe that this is a basis for concluding that the obligation to provide information has been breached, but I take note of the views of the Workers' Party, SVs and the Centre's party on what they think should be done to invoke a breach of the obligation to provide information. It is, of course, up to each party in Stortinget to consider what is needed to promote mistrust proposals against a Council of State. It could be big things, and it could be small things. Overall, it will often depend on the current political situation and the political importance of the matter. It is the Storting itself and the individual batches that assess the issues in which such instruments are to be used, and it is of course the Storting itself that defines the framework for the use of these instruments. I finally want to underline and make the Storting aware that I take the conclusions of the utmost seriousness, even though I partly disagree with the basis of some of them. However, the case has provided room for learning and improvement of procedures in the Ministry of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1200	Prime Minister Solberg has already been referred to in this debate, namely from an earlier debate in which she said in one context what everyone agrees is that breach of the information obligation is a very serious matter in the Stortinget. Of course – we all agree on that. Now we have heard the statements of the Council of State, where he repeats the complaints he has made earlier. He said at the end of the day that he takes a lot of self-criticism – that much could have been done differently and better – and that he takes the criticism seriously. But he also says that he takes the criticism that a majority in the Grand Duchy is behind. This is, of course, at the heart of the matter, and that is what this debate is about. What is then my question to the Council of State, where he now has the opportunity to say what he should say, is: A large majority in the Grand Duchy is now saying that it is highly critical of the way he has behaved. Is the Council of State now willing to complain about this in real terms and not just with reservations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1209	I mean, I've really regretted it. This is my responsibility. I've regretted it from Stortinget's pulpit, and I've regretted it in the hearing. I believe it has been very clear that I take responsibility for what I am responsible for, and that is all that is happening in my department and in my underlying offices, for which I have the constitutional responsibility. It is quite obvious that the criticism formulated by a majority in the vote is taken very seriously by me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1214	That was good so far, I would say, but the question is nevertheless: is this an unreserved regret to the Storting for what has happened in this matter, and does he agree with the core of the criticism that arises from a majority of the Storting, as it is formulated in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1219	I went through this in quite detail in my article. I disagree with some of the fact-finding of the majority of the committee in some areas, but it does not mean that a state council does not relate to the majority of the Stortinge writing in a position. Of course, I'm dealing with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1224	In retrospect, what would the Minister for Justice and Security do differently with regard to the implementation of the change in the letter of assignment under the sub-objective 4.2, that long-stay children are to be given priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1229	First of all, we've changed those routines. This means that we are now going through a completely different way of disposal written where there are policy changes, and seeing that they are consistent with what appears in the letter of assignment. It is also the case that it will be followed up in the ongoing governance dialogue that we have with underlying agencies, to ensure that policy changes are perceived in underlying agencies. This applies in general, not just in relation to one establishment. We've changed our routines in this area, based on the experience that this case has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1234	The Central Party agrees that the Council of State would tell us about the error made in the Police Directorate. What remains, however, is that the error had really nothing to do with it. If it was important, the ministry had every opportunity to correct the error. Governments have taken maritime criticisms in several areas. But what remains is that the police director is left as the culprit. My question is: Is the Council of State sorry that the police director is left in Norwegian public as the one who has done wrong, when this is not adequate for the reality of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1242	I would first like to say that the reason why the error was not fixed was that it was not discovered. It's regrettable in itself. I have already regretted that from the Chair of the Stortinge. So I hope that I have been so clear in my communication throughout this whole process that it is I who take responsibility for everything that happens within my area of responsibility. I am responsible for the mistakes that have been made, and I am responsible for cleaning them up. I believe that this will provide a very good basis for pointing out who is really responsible. Then I also believe that I am obliged to express what has actually happened, without it being seen as a disclaimer or as a point of reference to other people in order to have done or not done anything they should or should not have done. It is a difficult balance, and I hope the representative of Lundtigen has respect for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1251	Errors have occurred, it has been acknowledged and regretted by the Council of State. In retrospect, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have concluded a new agreement. It is such that, among other things, The children sent out shall be re-tested. There were a number of tumulets around this in the media, and there were considerable doubts about the content of the agreement, etc. My question is about where in the loop this work is now. When can we expect such a review to actually take place, and when do we intend to implement it to correct errors that may have been committed against the children who may have been sent out incorrectly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1256	The follow-up to that part of the agreement is of the highest priority in the ministry. The new regulation has already been consulted, and it is our intention that this should come into force as soon as possible. We are committed to having good dialogue with our cooperation parties on both the date of entry into force and the work in progress until we land this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1261	I thought it was a clean and factual article. As the Minister of Justice himself said, a different position can be taken, one can interpret facts in very different ways. That's why we conclude very differently. I want to take advantage of the chance to ask the Minister of Justice about the two things in his explanation that I think are most difficult to understand or to stick to. The only thing is if he still thinks that until December 2nd, 2014 he didn't do anything or did not get any information that provided the basis for checking whether the policy was actually put into practice, even after October 8th or 9th, when the September speech reached him and the department. The second is if it wasn't for him – the person in Norway with the best access to the Police Directorate – to listen at all realized that the policy changes were not understood and seen in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1270	To the end, it's saying there were conversations about these issues in the process. I didn't realize until the inspection hearing that the police director didn't understand what they wrote on December 8th that they had understood. I also did that quite well in the post, and this represents the situation that was and then expanded. With regard to the question of the basis for checking, there is also a question that is a little demanding, because until September one had had relatively few broadcasts of long-term children. Then there was a summit in September. When one sees this in relation to the number of children who were collectively returned – the return figures were overall significantly higher in 2014 than in previous years – is the question of where the balance is, when were too many long-term children transported or not? We referred to the information we had, and I record that the committee believes that I should have checked it more thoroughly. I can assure you that such a situation will not arise again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1277	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1280	I will begin by referring to the vote and to the rapporteur's presentation here at the beginning of the debate – in addition to what was said by the representative Jette Christensen. I do that so that I do not dare the Storting to repeat what we now all know and understand is the background to this matter. Nevertheless, I will refer to what has been said in these posts, and to the setting. Despite the post that the Council of State has now held here in Stortingen, I will establish, as I see it, and as the Labour Party sees this, that it is the Council of State itself that has put itself in an unsustainable situation through what he knows very well is his duty – and as he himself now in the post confirmed that he knew well about, also from his former function here in Stortingen – and it is to make thorough account of the work on the matters for which he is responsible, whether it is through agreement with a majority here, or there is actually a decision made here in this Chamber, and not least his responsibility to inform the Stortinget properly and in a complementary way. That's what the majority of the Storing thinks he hasn't done. I would already say on this point that what the Council of State has said today is different from what he has said before, as I hear it. I have heard from the Council of State. The anundsen with great goodwill both in the hearing and in all the other contexts he has explained this, but what he said today was something different than what he has said before. It might be by reference to what he himself calls learning, and in case it's good. It is the necessary humility that a State Council shall demonstrate to a large majority when a large majority is marked as in this case. At the same time, I would like to say that it is right, as the Council of State said, even when referring to its former position as head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee does not intervene in this matter in order to create political difficulties. This matter has arisen because the Norwegian Grand Duchy Control and Constitutional Committee is to fulfil its constitutional responsibilities. That's what's behind the case. And a majority believes that it hasn't happened. Now we hear the Council of States differently, but to say it in public, it's actually small. This is – and the Prime Minister should note – a part of the pattern that has provoked the Committee of Control throughout this process, namely that the concessions and information do not come until we withdraw them – and it has been completely unnecessary. I believe that if the Council of State had made the approach to the matter that he has expressed today, and explained it in the way he does today, perhaps the matter might have looked different. But he deserves the criticism he gets, precisely because he has not made the political tone, or has behaved in the way that a council of states should do, namely to behave neatly and properly towards the Storting from the first moment. So that's why this case has become a matter in the control committee, and now here for the Storting in plenary. What's the matter next? Well, of course, it's about what many people have said, and which is at the heart of the matter, that a government council's duty is to provide the Storting with correct and truthful information and sufficient information, as several representatives have already underlined. It's a duty that's not just a habit, but is now grounded. The Council of State's obligation to inform the Storting has been there since 2007, and I do not repeat it – several have already shown what § 82 says – but the fact is, therefore, that an overall committee supports an understanding that the political system is built up in such a way that the government controls the administration and thus has access to the large resources and expertise it entails. In order to balance the government’s significant resource takeovers, there is a long and firm tradition that the Storting is loyally informed by the government about the facts in the cases submitted by the government to the Stortinget – and that the information provided is not incorrect or misleading, regardless of the lead. Of course, this fundamental law has not come because it should not be followed or because it is not important. This is about nothing less than the very foundation of our people's rule: the principle of power distribution. The size is the country's highest authority. It is chosen by the people to serve the people. There is a majority in this Chamber who decides who will be responsible for the implementation and implementation of the policy that a majority of the people want. Government and State Council Anundsen is elected trustee of the Storting. He and all other government councils shall carry out in an open and democratic manner what the Storting has decided. But it is also that the information given should be correct. It shall be true, and it shall be complementary, for the Storting cannot comply with its obligations to the people or under the Constitution if it does not receive such information. Moreover, if the people are not informed by a political breakdown, based on actual and open knowledge, neither will the people be able to make an opinion about who and what they will give their trust in. Then we're inside a political sphere we're definitely not going into – a system that's no longer democratic. In other words, this is not about children of asylum or whether they are in favour of or against the policy pursued in this field. The Workers' Party is not part of the agreement between the Government and the Christian People's Party and the Left. We are outside it, and I hear that some representatives want to link comments to the Labour Party's policy in this area. That side of the case I can discuss with you, but it does not concern the matter we are dealing with here today. What we are dealing with today is the constitutional question of the Council of State's relationship with the Storting, as the matter is explained. Therefore, it is important to maintain that what happened in this case is that these principles have been challenged. I repeat that I have heard the Council of State Anundsen today different from before. I hope that is a practice that he applies to his part and government in particular and in general in the future. Through its agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government has given the impression that the policy has been softened with regard to the long-term children in Norway. But what actually happened, after the Minister of Justice stood here in Stortinget and bore in mind that he stood for an embellishment and a real policy change, was the opposite. The most obvious example of those statements not being correct was that more children than ever were sent out of the country. That's the material proof that that statement wasn't right. It's completely impossible for me to understand anything other than that. If there is a clear policy change, why are many more sent out than ever before – completely contrary to the agreement? I don't understand. And this isn't something that just I'm looking for, it's this thing that's been clearly documented by the work that the Control and Constitutional Committee has done. So there's no point in getting a clearer proof. Another example that highlights this is that immediately this matter came to the public's knowledge, then, but only then – I say it once more: then, but only then – the negotiations between the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left about a necessary regulatory change started. I stress one regulatory change – and this is important – a regulatory change that the setting demonstrates that the police had on several occasions called for as a necessary tool to change the practice towards long-term children. This happened only after the matter had come to the public, after Bergen’s Official Journal had raised the matter and documented it. Only then did it happen. I believe that it is reassuring and alarming to hear that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the Minister of Justice cannot be blamed for what an underlying office is doing. It is a blatant breach of the general and constitutional understanding of what a state council is responsible for. I have to say that it surprises me that the two government parties believe this. In particular, I would like to say that it surprises me a lot that the Right believes it. That the Right, as one of the two tongues -- let me use that expression, without me being ‘taken’ too much for it afterwards, to say it like that -- the government parties in Norway say such a thing, is very surprising. We have tried through this debate to clarify what both the Right and the Advance Party actually mean here, but they are very evasive. It was so to understand that the government council Anundsen originally said when he explained the matter and complained, was not that he complained on his behalf, but he regretted that the police had not understood what he meant. He blamed the police – to say it directly and publicly. That's what he did. He tried to transfer responsibility to the police – and he only regretted it that way. That was the first chance. So the Right Party and the Advance Party say that there is an acceptable reason why the Council of State has not done what he should have done. And then what's it all about, dear grandma? I'm going to go into it more specifically, it's been affected by several, but I have my version of the relationship with the police. In the hearing, the police director, Humlegård, said that he regretted that the police director had not perceived the change in the wording of long-term children in the letter of assignment from the department. The foreign agency of the police had also failed to perceive it. The representative of the staff of the Foreign Affairs Unit made it clear that they needed clear messages, a new regulation, if there was to be a change. They had not understood, they said to us in the committee, that there had been a clear policy change. What is this about then, and which is the Council of State's argument that the police had not understood things, had not understood it, and had not done what they should, as he found reason to complain in Stortinget? Well, it's about a change in one sentence, which they should have read and understood meant a big and important policy change, but it was just a change in the sentence, which didn't stand to read, where «long-term child» was replaced by «child» – and that was all. And now I come to something that I myself think is very important – and I see that the prominent representatives of the department are also in the lodge, and that's good, both the Department Council and the Head of Police Department are here, it's fine: neither the Department, the Police Directorate, nor the Foreign Affairs Department can remember anything about follow-up from the department – nor can the Department remember it, at least not in the hearing, nor in any other way. What we know is what I now hear in the debate is being discussed in a different way, and I will comment on it. The committee can read quite well, and we have read the 70 letters that the department has received from the police about sending long-term children. It is true that many of the letters deal with other matters than what we are talking about here, but several of them also have a clear warning about what this is about. It's not right, as the Council said at this point, that this is just talking about a common practice. Yes, it has been a common practice, but if the department had followed the communication that the police had with the department at this point, they should have been able to respond when it was a significant and major policy change. But they didn't. During the hearing, the Council of State, not the Council of Ministers, sitting here, could not remember the head of the Police Department, sitting here, and not the former Council of State responsible for these matters in the Ministry of Justice, whether they had received the letters, who had read them, or what they had done to them. None of them could answer that question, even though they were asked about it again and again and were confronted with it. And it's a little strange, I think, it's a little weird, it's supposed to be the way that no one in the department knows what they've done with these letters -- they haven't read them, they don't even know who's read them, and what they've done with them. That's at least what they've said to us, and this is from the setting. Then it's no wonder that the committee is starting to ask itself the question: was this really honest, was this a real policy change that you really wanted? A small sentence was changed in the letter of assignment, and when the matter comes to the public, the police are blamed, and not once has this been addressed in the more formal dialogue meetings between the department and the directorate. Not even the department thinks it happened. The question is, Is this true of believers? That's the question when we experience such things as this – is this true of believers? We mean no at that point, of course. We have said that this forms a backcloth that shows that the Council of State did not speak correctly and truly when he said that there was a significant policy change in relation to the sending of long-term children. This is the core of the criticism. Now, in the debate here, the Council of State says that he takes this for information, as he calls it, so he doesn't accept it, really. He did not do it in the line change between the council and me here a moment ago. Then we are at the point that the Council of State of course – that is, of course, but nevertheless, I say it this way – must accept that today he is given a majority decision against him saying that he has acted very critically, even having to live with the fact that there is a large minority who believe that he does not have the confidence of the Storting. This is an argument that comes in addition to everything that has been said throughout this debate so far, and what is in the vote. I hear someone thinks this is a political mistrust proposal, that this is what we are doing to damage the government politically. I'm just saying it this way: it's not right, it's not true, it's just absolutely necessary for the Storting on such occasions, when such situations occur – a classic distrust situation – to say that that's not how we want it. If the motion of censure falls, there will be strong criticism, and that is in the case of a criticism that the government and the Prime Minister themselves have to assess whether it is of such a nature that the Council of State can continue in their post — that is how it is understood. I suppose the Prime Minister will. There's one side to this that I want to finalize. It is that the Prime Minister himself in this matter has also expressed himself incorrectly in Stortinget, probably after the information she has received from the Minister of Justice – I am probably saying here, because I do not know that, so I am probably saying. Then it will be up to her, if she feels misinformed, in case to inform about it, but she has said the same things that the Minister of Justice has said, and it has chosen to leave it. The Committee has not taken this into account, but has drawn the attention of the Council of State responsible and the position and information of the Council of State responsible on this matter. State Council Anundsen has violated the provisions of the Constitution § 82. So he no longer trusts a large minority in the Great Britain, but will – probably, here too – have a decision against him that contains strong criticism, and that is a decision that is quite timely, absolutely necessary, all the factors that are taken into account in this debate and that I have addressed in my own way in this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1331	This matter and this debate are about whether the Minister of Justice and Security has complied with the disclosure obligation of the government to Stortinget under the Constitution § 82. There are traditionally two things in the Norwegian parliamentary tradition that have been the basis of mistrust proposals. One is if there is a significant difference between what the Storting has decided in a matter, and what the government is able to deliver. There is no one who claims in this matter, so the question remains: Has the Council breached the information obligation towards Stortinget? Has the state council misled the Storting? Has this will been tried to lead behind the light? The answer to that is in my opinion no. I would like to add that it is quite obvious that the Ministry of Justice and Defence could have done things differently in this matter. This debate has clearly shown this, and so has the Council of State. Those who have followed this case have found that the reason we have this debate is that the priorities of the Foreign Affairs Unit should be changed from 2013 to 2014. In 2013, the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police directed after the leaders of the previous red-green government, which said: ‘The priority shall be given to matters involving children who have been in Norway for a long time without authorisation.’ This was amended in 2014 as follows: «The priority shall be given to matters involving children.» We're not talking about a change in who's going to stay or not, but a change in how the Foreign Affairs Department should prioritize its allocated resources for forced deployment. So there's a change that the government has the authority to do on its own. The change was included in the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate, but when they passed the instructions on to the Police Foreign Unit, it was the red-green text that was still standing. It is still unclear what is the concrete, specific reason for this error. Should the Ministry of Justice and Defence have ensured that this change was marked more clearly in the document in order to justify itself against such a type of error? Maybe so. In any case, the Committee is informed that the procedures change somewhat, so that such errors do not recur. Should the Ministry of Justice and Defence have been even clearer in their reply to the Directorate of Police, after receiving the letter in March, where they asked for clarification? Yeah, that's the answer. It also writes the Council of State to the Committee in its letter to us on 19 December. Should the Ministry of Justice and Defence do more to ensure that POD provided accurate information in the letter which was the basis for the letter of the Council of State to the Committee on 19 December? The hearing clarified that this information was not correct, but we have seen the correspondence between the Department and the Police Directorate, where the Department asks: Has the Police Directorate understood? And the police director says yes, we understand. What else should a State Council do than communicate such a clear response? My point with this is that of course there are things that could have been done differently in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It also considers the ministry itself, it has mentioned it in the hearing, it has been mentioned in the form of letters, and the Council of State is also involved in this today. But there is a difference in saying that the ministry could do something different, to say that the Council of State has misled the Storting according to the Constitution § 82. I really don't understand, that it's possible to look conscientiously at the fact of the matter and come to that conclusion. I don't understand. Paragraph 82 of the Constitution reads as follows: ‘The Government shall communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government must provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storting.» If we look at what the parties that are going to vote for this distrust today are drawing up as a basis to say that the disclosure obligation is broken, we see that the argumentation is thin – very thin. The debate on the throne was held on 6 October. There the Council of State says that "what we have done in this regard is that we have actually increased the focus of our letter of assignment in relation to the previous government". That is something that the department has done quite unequivocally. The problem is that, unfortunately, the message has not arrived. Some have also referred to the wording that there is a possibility of returns to Nigeria and Afghanistan respectively in 2014. So it's said that when it opens up a possibility, it has to mean a concrete one-off event. They therefore believe that it is entirely unthinkable that a possibility can arise as a result of a dialogue over time, after an overall assessment. In fact, there was an opportunity for return to Afghanistan in 2014. The fact that people were at all returned, accepted, and that the return agreement still stands by, is logical proof of that. If it was not possible, the logical consequence must be that no one could have been returned. But there were forced dispatches to Afghanistan. It is also stressed that, on a written question submitted by the representative Karin Andersen on 29 September last year, the Council of State did not include a statistics on forced release for September but stopped the submission of the figures on 31 August. So the statistics went up to 31 August. We can see from the documents that the Council of State replied to Andersen's representative on 3 October, and we know that the department did not have quality assurance figures until 8 October. What government council would we have had if we were to answer written questions from big business representatives by guessing numbers? So you can't expect the Council to know which statistics apply to a specific month before that statistics actually exist. Then there is also someone who has mentioned that the State Council Anundsen in the letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee on 19 December says that the police have understood the change. No, that's not what the letter says. I'll quote: ‘... I will refer you to a letter from the Police Directorate on 8 December of this year. where it reads: ‘We would nevertheless stress that the police have understood and based the Ministry of Justice’s leadership in the 2014 Letter of Assignment in the case of emigration. From this point of view, it is our opinion that the error in our disposal note to the Police Department has not resulted in any children being transported out that should not have been so.» It is therefore referred to a response from the Directorate of Police. Of course, it's quite natural, because when it's unclear whether someone has understood something or not, you ask them. That is what the Ministry of Justice and Defence has done, and they have received an answer which they have forwarded to the Committee. It has also been said explicitly by the police director – as the representative Christensen had in his speech – to the Official Journal of Bergen that the Police Directorate has understood the leadership, despite the fact that there is a fault in the disposal writing. We can't expect any government councils or anyone else to have psychic powers. We can't expect anyone to have a statistics that haven't been compiled yet. What we can expect, on the other hand, is that members of the government are disclosing the Storting in a way that is not misleading, based on the information they actually have at that time. It is clear to everyone that it was the hearing that revealed that the Foreign Affairs Unit of the police did not get the policy change, and that the Council of State did not know this before the hearing. It may not be so strange, all the time when the Directorate of Police has announced that the policy change was understood downwards in the system, both through the media and in the form of letters to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which the Ministry of Justice and Defence has passed on to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We've seen all the correspondence, we've seen the letters, the council passed on what's the Police Directorate's opinion. That today we know that they had a crazy opinion at that time, it's on the clean. But what the Council of State has done is to pass on that assessment in a letter to us on 19 December. It was, after all, the best assessment that was available, they were asked it actually. Then I would also like to say – as others have also been involved – that it is not a disclaimer when you explain what has actually happened. The Council of State has consistently stressed that it is he who is responsible for everything that is happening in his underlying offices. When Stortinget asks – on direct questions – what has actually gone wrong, we also have to bear in mind the actual course of events, in addition to an emphasis on the fact that the Council of State is, of course, responsible, both constitutionally and most effectively. I also need to add that it is a bit special to hear representatives from the former Red-Green Government Cooperation parties talk to a violent pathos about the individuals who may have been affected by this change. I have to remind you that it was the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Workers' Party that introduced this system of priorities for the Foreign Affairs Unit, the same priority that they are now upset about not being removed quickly enough. The representative Helga Pedersen also concluded on Dagsrevyen a short time ago that the Workers' Party still stands by this old wording. It must also mean that they will reverse it if they are given the opportunity. I had hoped that I would not take this siding which is not really about the matter we are discussing today, but this had to be addressed by someone. So to the representative Kolberg, who comes up with his speculative theories that the Council of State really wouldn't change anything. I would like to remind the representative Kolberg that what we are going to conclude with here today is whether the Council has complied with the information obligation under Basic Law § 82. I would like to say that today the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have lowered the threshold in order to promote mistrust proposals in the Stortinget to an historic bulwark level. They have given the information obligation a completely new content that we have not seen before. They believe that the council has misled Stortinget because he has not presented statistics that did not exist at the time he should have presented it. They think he has misled the Storting by saying that it opened up a return to Afghanistan, which is quite logically proven. They believe that he has misled the Storting simply by transmitting information and information from the Police Directorate in the letter of December 19, despite the fact that it was the best and most reliable information that existed at the time, and that there was a reservation that this was a quote from the Police Directorate's letter. The Minister of Justice has not broken the Constitution § 82. He hasn't misled the Storting. It's drawing the piece too far. It sets a new standard for which the list of mistrust proposals is in Norwegian parliamentary practice, and it will not be included in the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1381	Asylum and immigration policies are demanding and challenging. Norway shall participate in the world society on the basis of the best values we manage through the Constitution, human rights and international conventions. The Christian People's Party wants Norway's policy in this area to be based on justice, predictability and humane practice. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to protect the institution of asylum in order to help those who need it the most. This requires clearly defined formulations and practices on immigration regulatory considerations. However, it is important to see that in the end of all things, the individual is sitting with his or her unwanted life stories and broken dreams. They have left their place of residence after war and persecution and at risk of life and health. They want peace, to restart, to make friends and work, to participate in social coexistence and to contribute to a positive community. The special feature for children and young people who end up in this desperate situation is that they have been found there quite innocently, sometimes because of their parents' faults and actions. The Christian People's Party believes that by focusing on the best of children in most political matters, the result will be good. With the motto «human world in the centre», the best Christian People's Party of children was the starting point of the government negotiations and a condition we negotiated into the cooperation agreement. Legal conditions based on the best interests of children must certainly be the test of humanity by every society. This means that children cannot be viewed as an attachment to their parents’ fate in good and bad – they are entitled to their own assessment as an independent legal entity. In this area, the Christian People's Party believes that we can afford to be red, and in this area, the Christian People's Party wants to change red-green practices. In the field of asylum and immigration policy, the Christian People's Party has therefore promoted the best interests of children as a condition for both regulations, laws and procedures for practical implementation throughout the process chain. This must apply to UDI, UNE and PU, in the event of reception, residence and integration. The term ‘best of children’ includes many underlying terms and conditions for which agreement has been reached — in a common understanding. This was – and is – a matter that the Council of State is well aware of and had accepted the framework for the conclusion of the cooperation agreement. The Christian People's Party has followed this up in meetings, in Stortingen's Question Time and on all occasions where it was a relevant topic. We believe that this is largely in line with people's perception of justice, and – I believe – a rather cross-political position. I have also received many feedback on this, not least from both members of and representatives of the government parties. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, there are three serious issues that we, with reference to the Constitution § 82, will raise in this matter: Firstly, the letter of allocation to the Directorate of Police for 2014 was not followed up and passed on to the underlying agencies, and thus the ‘ready-to-use policy change’ was not followed up. Secondly, the wording ‘Opening an Opportunity’ was used by both the Council of State and the Prime Minister from Storting’s pulpit. It has turned out, in our view, that there does not seem to be any substance in this statement. On the contrary, the wording contrasts with what reports from organisations working against Afghanistan had said. Thirdly, the Council of State did not indicate that a plan of measures had been put in place in the Police Foreign Affairs Unit to reach the 2014 targets. In the chronology debate on 6 October 2014, long-term children were a theme in several articles and lines. It had to be known that target achievement would have significant consequences for the transmission of long-term children. Also, the Council of State did not indicate that the number of long-term children sent out in September 2014 was unusually high. In addition, the Council of State has expressed its opinion to the Stortinget on the matter several times without having provided all the information necessary to fully inform the case. According to the view of the Christian People's Party, Stortinget has not received comprehensive information. At the same time, broadcasts of long-term children have been carried out, among others. as a result of an actionary pressure from the Council of State towards the underlying bodies, inter alia: with a target number focus. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, it may seem that the Council of State has spoken to the Storting several times without providing all the information necessary and sufficient to inform all the aspects of these relations. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the broadcasts of long-term children carried out in 2014, especially in the second half of 2014, do not appear to have been in line with the policy change expressed by the Council of State in Stortinget. It is strange that over a whole year of regular dialogue meetings with the police activity, a Council of State has not at any time focused on how it is defined as ‘a clear policy change’ was followed up in practice. It is alarming that the Council of State assumed that the policy change has taken place in the light of the change in the letter of award sent out in January, without examining whether this is in line with the realities. I choose to believe that follow-up and work distribution work differently and much better on all other responsibilities between the Council of State, the Department and the underlying departments. The Christian People's Party records the State Council's opinion at its meeting on 2 December 2014, regretting that the change of priorities in the letter of assignment had not been followed up by the POD and the underlying agencies. The Christian People’s Party has otherwise noted the opinion of the Council of States to the Committee at its hearing on 6 February 2015, stressing the need for ‘to follow up new governance signals better and to make sure that these are actually perceived’. During the hearing, the Council of State also stated that ‘the case has provided a basis for learning and improving procedures and governance in the field’. We have thus registered from the Christian People's Party that the Council of State seems to recognise that there have been significant shortcomings and weaknesses in the handling of this matter, linked to the very central aspects of the political governance of this matter. It does not seem that the Council of State has deliberately provided the Stortinget with information other than what he thought was correct at the time it was given. The Christian People's Party's conclusion in this matter is that the Council of State Anundsen has informed Stortinget in a way that is very serious and highly critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1417	This is a serious matter. The rapporteur, Mr Solhjell, has given a detailed review of the substance of the matter and the seriousness of the situation for people. We from the Labour Party have from our side elaborated on the principle and political aspects of the matter, and I hope that the representative Raja – who was concerned with his practice as a lawyer, and it was about listening carefully as far as I understood – listened to the submissions and read our comments rather than drawing the airy conclusions of a single quote from the Dagsrevy. I'll be careful here with some principal assessments. The obligation to provide information is clearly and clearly defined in this room. All information necessary for the handling of matters brought by the Government shall be notified to the Grand Duchy and no government council shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Grand Duchy. The obligation is of fundamental and practical importance as a basis for the governance function of the Storting, but also as a criterion for the control and accountability of state councils. It is a fundamental democratic value and absolutely necessary for the Storting to be able to do the job that the Storing has been chosen to do. As stated several times in previous articles, before 2007, the obligation to provide information was enshrined in constitutional law. Since 2007, the obligation has been laid down in the Constitution § 82. Any breach of the obligation to provide information is therefore also a breach of the letter of the Constitution. It's serious. That is the obligation to provide information on this matter. The Committee has not dealt with asylum policy, it has dealt with the government's relationship with the Storting. It is ‘the Government shall provide the Storting with all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits’, as stated in the text of the Constitution. It is a matter of necessary and important formalities for the relationship between magnification and government to function as it should in our democracy. The size depends entirely on the fact that the Council of State provides correct and complete information, and therefore it is up to the Stortinget to wake up to the fact that the information obligation is followed and taken seriously. This case has been informed by a response to a letter from Stortinget and by a comprehensive consultation. We have been told that Minister of Justice Anundsen has omitted information for the Storting, he has failed to inform us when he has actually had the knowledge to do so, and he has claimed that there have been clear policy changes that have never occurred. When we ask questions in Stortinget, we have to expect the Council of State to do what he can to clarify the facts in the matter, which he did in his long post today. Instead, we have experienced a government council in the past that does what he can to limit his answers, and that also directly misinforms. Let me conclude by saying that mistrust is a serious matter in our parliamentary system. It does not often happen that the Workers' Party is in favour of distrust. Therefore, it is not easy to make a decision when the Labour Party today states that we do not trust the Minister of Justice. The council has had the opportunity to clarify what he has done and what responsibility he has had, but the impression is that information has been omitted or incorrect, or that the responsibility has been placed with others. It is our responsibility as an opposition party to ensure that the rules are followed, and that the information on which a government sits and which is important for the work of the Storting is actually made available. When we experience that such information is omitted repeatedly, trust is released. Through the information provided by the Minister of Justice and Preparedness to the Stortinget, we believe that the obligation to provide information has not been complied with, and therefore the Minister of Justice and Defence does not have the confidence of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1434	Does the representative really believe that there should be sufficient grounds for distrust if a Council of State has described a policy change that is later seen not to take place? If the scale is set, what scale should be used when the representative himself was the Council of State and described a policy change on both the guarantee of cancer and the construction of 12,000 new hospitals that never took place? So would previous accumulation on the same scale adopted distrust of the representative, as was then the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1439	The Storting had full opportunity for that. But here I believe that the representative Raja is drawing this far too far. The arguments put forward by the Labour Party for reaching such a serious conclusion are set out in the suspension and in the submissions made by the members of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The fact that a notified policy change is not implemented may have many different reasons, and I believe here that the representative has drawn a short quote from the Dagsrevyen as the Workers' Party's full argument. Of course, that's not the case. So I would once again urge the representative to read our comments in the setting, and also read his own and Christian People's Party – which is largely consistent with ours – where one draws a somewhat different conclusion. But that's this fundamental relationship to the obligation of information that is the basis for our decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1448	I have read very carefully what the Labour Party has written in the setting, and I have also listened to most of the debate that has been here. I now note that the head of the Workers' Party may be right about what he himself had full control over. There was a press conference session, where they performed in the Dagsrevy and spoke this out. It's not a quote that might have been cut and glued, because it's a sentence that the representative himself expressed. But he then believes that that sentence cannot be asserted, that one cannot have it as a benchmark for assessing whether or not a government council should have the confidence of the Stortinge or not – that that sentence cannot stand up as I have referred to it, and as it was sent on the Dagsrevyen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1453	The size determines whether you have confidence in a government council, whether it's in the previous government or in the current government. That sentence is individual and not exhaustive for the whole of the Workers' Party's argument. I would like to suggest that you go to what the Control and Constitutional Committee has written, or include all the quotations I made on the comment I made after the Workers' Group had made its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1458	The representative Støre stated that it was primarily the obligation of information that he was out to light up. But then he says that the reason why this matter is so important is that this is so serious for all the people involved. I allow myself to interpret it so that this is serious, that policy-making is not implemented – because it has been a topic today – due to the fact that humanistic facilitations have not been passed on. Then the question is, how does Støre feel that this is measured against the policy of the government he himself has been in? For the underlying, there is a fierce criticism of humanism in the Stoltenberg government, in which Støre was Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1463	That government went off in the fall of 2013. It's natural that we would work on these questions if we were still in government. We had national meetings, and we had a big message about emphasising children's concerns. We have followed the work done in the new government on a cooperation agreement. It took a long time for the regulation to change, and I have clarified during this spring that we are now applying that regulation as the applicable legislation. The reality is that there is a broad majority in Stortinget – and that is good – around both the legislation and the legislation being practised in this area. So here I think it's important to see that there's a different responsibility when you're in government and you're in charge of the law, and when, as an opposition, you follow a government that's working on legislation and comes to its conclusions -- way back and forth, if we can say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1468	This was a very interesting answer, because the basis for comparison is not the policy of the previous government, but what the Workers' Party intended to develop of new policies in opposition. It's not exactly the same thing. But then we agree that basically there are administrative decisions, and since we are going to discuss what happened in 2014, I will ask the representative if he is familiar with a single case where someone has been sent out of the country under a valid administrative decision, which should not have been sent out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1473	I am now recording that assessments of a wide range of individual issues are being carried out where the issue is addressed. What has created a great uncertainty for many people is that it is still not clear. They're abroad, they can apply again, they're going to get their cases settled again, and I assume that the department and the underlying agencies are doing the assessments in line with the legislation that is, and the intention that is in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1478	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1481	The majority today discusses whether a State Council has complied with the disclosure obligation to the Storting, and then it is done with some seriousness. It is also important that the debate is based on the thorough work carried out in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Through that work, the underlying agencies, stakeholder organisations and the Council of State have also been thoroughly consulted. I would like to perhaps start with a quote that the representative Jette F. Christensen also had in his speech, namely a quote from the current representative Erna Solberg from a debate in Stortinget on 18 June 2010. Then discussed a motion of censure against the then oil and energy minister Terje Riis-Johansen, where the current Prime Minister had an interesting opinion relating to the general obligation to provide information. It is clear that the obligation to provide information can be interpreted differently – today’s debate shows us – but the statements made by the then depositor on the obligation to provide information are interesting readings. She said, ‘The duty of information is a cornerstone of our democracy. It is attached to the Constitution. It's part of what makes our democracy transparent. It shall be ensured that the decisions are good. Provision shall be made for the political debate to take place on the basis of the facts available at all times. The duty of information is what makes us a democracy. In a small country how much of the power and investigative capacity lies with the state, it is that the state is obliged to provide us with good information that is the basis for us to actually have a viable and good democracy in the future. Therefore, breach of the obligation to provide information is also very serious. Therefore, holding back information is a way of manipulating the political debate, for its own political gain, which is not in line with what are fundamental democratic values.’ This is a serious message from – at the time – the big business representative Erna Solberg, but also an interesting consideration. For the representative of the public, not only is the obligation of disclosure related to decisions, but the obligation of disclosure also related to the political debate – as the basis for a genuine, honest and informed political debate. When the Central Party is today going to support a motion of censure against the Anders Anundsen Government Council, it is justified that the Stortinget cannot have confidence that the Council of State has provided correct information, that full information has been provided, and that the information on which the Ministry has always been sitting in the matter under discussion has been given to everyone. A State Council shall be responsible for its department and its underlying offices. Everything known to the Department is also known to the Council of State. A government council's responsibility is to organise its management so that they can capture the important things. It is a question of having good practice for all the information you receive to the ministry, but also of ensuring that policy changes that are adopted are followed up. When, through the treatment of this case, one has heard from the underlying establishment that they have not captured the changes in the disposal note, that they have never received any signal from the ministry that a policy change had occurred, and that in any case they believe that there have been no false broadcasts, there is good reason to ask questions in the department's follow-up to the disposal note. The asylum field is a field with many pitfalls. It is a complex piece of legislation, and it is an area in which set targets for how many are to be sent out of the country must be weighed against human considerations. If a target audience is too busy, it will go beyond adopted guidelines and introduce a policy change in this area, it will also require additional attention from policy management in the ministry to see that it is actually implemented. If a word is changed in a governance document, an actual follow-up should also be made to those exercising that authority. So has not happened in this case, despite the fact that the Council of State has said anything else to the Stortinget. Logically, it is easier to reach the target numbers by sending out children's families. Several people are sent out at the same time, and they have usually known their place of residence. When the Council of State keeps repeating to the PU that the figures are to be reached, it is likely that more families of children will also be sent out. It is not reassuring whether a person does not have good enough routines in his own department, but it is particularly serious if it also leads to incorrect information being provided to the Stortinget. The fact in this case is that the Council of State has repeatedly stood in the main hall and described a situation that is not real. As late as December 2, 2014, the State Council in Stortinget stated that there had been a clear policy change, and that one had softened the focus. Then the committee's investigations have shown something else. The essence of the matter for the Central Party is that we have a government council that has provided the Stortinget with incorrect information, and a state council that has not controlled the follow-up of the underlying agencies. The seriousness is underlined by the fact that from the very beginning, the Council of State has pushed the responsibility downwards, especially on the police director, for the errors that his own department and his own political leadership have made. Even in the main hall, the Council of State has lamented the police director’s statements, and when he has been in charge for many months and has been briefed on developments in the field of asylum, as well as regular updates on controversial broadcasts, it becomes a remarkable way of exercising leadership. For the Central Party, this matter is not about a political game, but about political realities and facts. That is why we have also come to the conclusion that the Council of State does not have our confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1508	Today we are 169 representatives on the Stortinget. We are elected by the people, and the government governs on the basis of our trust. The decisions we make in this room are important to very many people's lives, and it's a big responsibility. If the Storting is to perform its role in a good way, it is essential that we have good cooperation with the government. The information we receive from the government, which has a completely different capacity for investigation and information gathering than the Storting, must be correct and balanced. Political disagreements cannot stand in the way of that trust. In this case, the Minister of Justice and Security has acted in such a way that the trust is no longer present, and there are in particular three reasons why SV has chosen to promote a mistrust proposal in this case. Firstly, the Minister of Justice has told Stortinget about a clear policy change, which is important, and which heightened the focus on long-term asylum children. But this change was not put into life, there are no other attempts at putting change into life than a single letter. The presentation by Stortinget did not vote, and no substantial attempts were made to get it to vote. Secondly, the Minister of Justice, Stortinget, replied to the repeated question of long-term asylum children in the autumn of 2014. In these responses, important information was omitted: measures and re-priorities to achieve targets for shipments, increased shipments to Nigeria and Afghanistan and the August and September transport figures. He also chose not to investigate these conditions after a number of questions from Stortinget, and he did not inform Stortinget about them before Bergen's Official Journal wrote about the matter. Thirdly, the Minister of Justice has also given at least one incorrect information to the Grand Duchy after the case was officially referred to and the Supervisory Committee asked questions about it. He has explained that the policy change was understood by the police, but it did not. Later, the Council of State explained that the high numbers of long-term children returned to Afghanistan were due to the ‘opening of an opportunity’ of such returns. There is nothing to suggest that ‘it opened up’ any such possibility. This misinformation has also led to several voting sessions in the autumn of 2014, and we have heard in this debate that it has influenced voting in this Chamber. What reinforces the seriousness of this matter is that the mistakes that have been made may have had great human consequences. It is about asylum children and their families – people in an extremely vulnerable situation. It's about being or not being. It's about what kind of principles we want to establish for our society and our political system. We also owe these people thorough treatment when their affairs are on the political agenda, and it is only possible if these debates are based on correct information. There are therefore two types of seriousness in this case. One is human. This case may have had consequences for a significant number of children, and the review that is now of the cases will also reveal the scope. The second is the democratic one. With access to the correct information, some of the Storting might have changed its attitude to these cases in the fall. Several would like to press the pause button in the asylum child. It was a proposal for consideration in Stortinget. A number of questions were asked to the government. We're moving in a scary direction if we're willing to four on the requirements for what kind of information the size should have when we make our decisions. It is a very well-founded mistrust proposal that is being promoted today. The conclusion of the SV Storingsgruppe is that the State Council and Anders Anundsen have not complied with their obligation to provide information and therefore do not have our trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1537	The government's members are obliged to act in loyalty to the Storting. This loyalty requires two main requirements. One thing is that the information that the Storting gets must be correct. The second is that the information must be detailed. Previous speakers from the Labour Party have done well to see how the Council of State has breached the obligation to provide information in the case of long-term asylum children. Mistletoe is a definite constitutional change. The question of distrust is certainly not about the constitutional responsibility not being fulfilled in this matter. When I take the floor, it's at the same time to point out that the Council of State in several cases has a work form that is worth noting and that gives cause for concern. In the role of head of the Judicial Committee, it has been part of my task to follow the actions and omissions of the Council of State. In this context, I want to limit myself to three examples. They're not exhausting. In the case of general weapons, the Council of State is sending a call for changes in the weapons directive to the police where he wanted to introduce general weapons – against the will of the majority of the population. Then Stortinget took an affair. In the case of the handling of Mulla Krekar, the Minister of Justice went beyond his powers when he tried to instruct the police. Then the Lawyer's court took action. In the case of a possible Norwegian prison camp in the Netherlands, he was already able to cancel the hearing on the same day, announcing that he was going to the Netherlands to sign a pre-negotiating agreement three days later. This was on a Friday. The appointment was to be signed on the following Monday. The Storting hearing about a matter that concerned this was the following Tuesday – i.e. before counter- performances, nuances and recordings were in place, the agreement had been negotiated. It says to see if it is possible to take action in this matter. When the Labour Party votes in favour of mistrust at the end of this debate, it is unquestionably based on an assessment of the concrete handling of cases of long-term asylum children. Mistylit isn't a collective operation, it's a very concrete assessment. When I still take these other copies, it is because they show that this matter is probably just the worst of a number of cases. So far she is the only one who breaks the formal rules of which a Council of State is bound, but she is in no way the only case where the Minister of Justice challenges the gulfs of democracy and the popular understanding of what trust requires. The Prime Minister said at one point that, after the hearing, we had received a more humble Minister of Justice. So far, there is little evidence to suggest it, but we can hope and assume that the willingness to learn that he expresses today, in this specific case, is also transferred to other things in his field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1554	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate, which I thought has been a good thing, and which has been a very important political matter. I went through the self-assessment of the control committee in my opening post, and the core of that is the obligation to provide information. However, I should like to pay a little visit to what many speakers have also said, that of course there is a background of debate on Norwegian asylum policy and on children who are Norwegian and who are staying for a long time in Norway. I also want to give tribute to what I would call very impressive journalism from Bergen's Official Journal, which, together with a number of other mediums after a while, led to an important issue being highlighted, and also to the fact that one has influenced attitudes and perceptions and the incentive to influence debate and politics in this field. We have also seen this in the recent agreement between the government and the support party. For the very thing: there is a mistrust proposal that will be contested later. After all, it will fall. It is very serious, however, that a very large minority in the UK makes a mistrust proposal. I've used a lot of resources to get into this case, it's my best guess, and it's a serious, well-founded mistrust proposal that the Minister of Justice and Defence makes sense to meet in an humble way – even if it's not agreed. What has been decided, however, is not so common in Stortinget, simply a proposal with a very strong criticism of the Minister of Justice and Defence. Let's hope that it actually has consequences, and that it will be followed up by both the Minister of Justice and the Department. With these words, I'm just going to pick up one last point from the debate that I think is worth paying attention to. A number of speakers have mentioned that one could not provide information at the time when one did not have it – in response to questions in the Storting last fall. Nor is there anyone from the plural who is behind the criticism in the vote, as I believe. What we've been saying is that one could have information about things an already then knew about: new target numbers, things that had happened when it came to returning to Afghanistan. We believe that at that point in time the figure showed a development in September, came – that is, from 8 to 9. October – there was relevant information for Stortinget when a number of questions were asked. We also mean that when a number of people ask questions in Stortinget, it might be wise to make a clock ring and check closer to how it goes with an important policy change that one has seen in life. With these words I round the debate and thank you again for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1571	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1585	Eurodac is a European fingerprint register and information on asylum seekers and non-residents occurring during the illegal crossing of the external Schengen border. The Eurodac Code deals with the rules relating to the recording and storage of these fingerprints and data. Eurodac is therefore an important tool for controlling border crossings in Norway and the rest of Europe. The Eurodac Regulation 2013 regulates the same type of issues as the current Eurodac Regulation. At the same time, the change provides for more effective cooperation, as well as strengthening the legal certainty and privacy of the applicant. It is also extended for a new purpose to allow law enforcement authorities and Europol to request comparison of fingerprint data with the data stored in Eurodac. However, this part of the regulation falls outside our current association agreement with the EU and is expressly exempted from the legislative proposal here. Norway has signed an agreement on the conclusion of the Prüm cooperation as set out in the 2008 EU Council Decision. Some technical progress remains before the legislation can be implemented. In order to allow law enforcement authorities to request comparison of fingerprint data with the Eurodac registry, it is assumed that this is regulated in the association agreement currently concluded in this field in the context of the Prüm decision. I think it is positive that the Department of Proposition emphasises that the work to conclude such an agreement with the EU is in progress. As the entry into force of the rest of the Eurodac Regulation 2013 will take effect as from 20 July 2015, such an agreement will have to be implemented at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1596	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1610	It is an overall committee which, in its opinion, endorses the proposal for amendments to the law of introduction. The amendments provide legal support for the establishment of personal records for the processing of personal data necessary for the implementation, follow-up and evaluation of the introduction programme, training in Norwegian and social subjects, Norwegian training for asylum seekers, residence of migrants and related grants. The Ministry shows in its statement that the processing of personal data by IMDi and Bufetat in connection with the settlement and processing of grants requires legal support or consent under the provisions of the Data Protection Act. The Ministry believes that limited linguistic competence and knowledge of Norwegian society may make it difficult for newly arrived immigrants to understand the importance of consent to the processing of personal data. The Ministry therefore considers it most appropriate to introduce a legal framework. The Committee notes and emphasises the fact that the proposed legislative changes to the law of introduction do not conflict with the provisions of the Data Protection Act. The bill has been at the hearing. In general, the consultation bodies have agreed on the need for the proposed legislative changes and on the material content of the changes. A number of adjustments have been proposed. On the basis of this, some minor changes have been made to the proposal promoted by the Storting against the draft consultation. The Committee takes note, inter alia, of: that the Data Protection Authority is in favour of the legislative proposal which they point to is in line with their previous recommendations. In the Committee's position, we conclude that the proposed amendments to Section 25 of the Introduction Act are appropriate and that they cover the need for an appropriate legal framework for the collection and processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1625	I'm glad there's an overall committee behind this. The availability of information on the individual refugee to be settled and qualified in a municipality is essential for the thorough and efficient settlement work. Refugees shall be settled quickly and in the appropriate municipality and both IMDi and Bufetat shall provide the municipalities with information on conditions that will affect the settlement, qualification and follow-up of each municipality. This proposition is part of my work and the government's efforts to strengthen housing, increase legal certainty for individuals and create neat conditions for municipalities. Municipalities rely on appropriate and necessary information to enable them to find suitable housing and to facilitate the qualification and introduction programme, good health care and further education. In other words, they must facilitate the proper integration of refugees. The legislative proposal also has the background to the previous assessment by the Data Protection Authority that Bufetat needs a valid treatment basis to settle single minors. Buffetate needs a legal basis to process sensitive personal data. I am pleased that the Data Protection Authority is in favour of the legislative proposal and that the proposed amendments do not conflict with the provisions of the Data Protection Act. The Government is now promoting a legislative proposal on amendments to Section 25 of the Introduction Act and the references to this section of the Act in Sections 23 and 24. The proposal provides for the establishment of a personal register, in order to ensure, inter alia, that the establishments responsible for: the settlement of migrants and the processing of grants may obtain the necessary information from the relevant bodies, such as the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Office, the Central People's Register, the Directorate of Integration and Diversity and the State of Children, Youth and Family. Today, the IMDI and the Children’s, Youth and Family budgets have tasks related to housing and grant management in the field. The proposal will provide IMDi and Bufetat with the basis they need to process personal data in relation to residence and grant management and the possibility to use collected data for evaluation. The proposal also makes the basis for the processing of personal data in the National Introductory Register, NIR, clearer. Detailed rules are proposed for the bodies which may process the information, the information to which it may be supplied and the bodies to which it is to be subject. For data processed in the NIR, a separate regulation has been developed in the past. The Committee gave its assent to the proposed amendments to the Introduction Act. I am pleased that both the hearing bodies and the committee unanimously endorse the amendments that the government believes will be in favour of and strengthen the settlement work, increase legal certainty for the individual and, not least, create sound conditions for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1646	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1662	There's reason to boast of NRK and NRK Super, who put children's experiences in a breakup on the agenda for a whole week this spring. Talking to children and to children targeted over a longer period of time if such a difficult topic is good. It was well received among both children and adults, after what I have heard. Maybe we need such reminders that there are many who are struggling with the same challenges and that there are opportunities to get help. It's always good not to be the only one. I want to thank those who were in the series and shared their thoughts and experiences with others. It was an important contribution to a difficult matter. Such a series makes everyone who looks at it aware of the challenges children face in the event of a breakup, and perhaps especially in the case of emotional issues. The programme launches thoughts and reflections that I hope may change the way some adults think about how a breakup is going to take place – what one should be aware of, and how one can help children who are in crisis. For this is a crisis, and it's a grief they're going through. I am glad that there is more openness about this today than when I was young – then this should not be talked about. Fortunately, today, children are encouraged to talk and tell when something is wrong. We have to keep doing that. Brochures, helplines, television and social media can contribute to even more transparency, for more transparency means that more people take responsibility and take action, as is done in kindergarten and school today. Crimes in which children are affected apply both where the parties are married and where one party is not a biological parent. Often grandparents, aunts and uncles are also part of that life, whether they are biological or so-called stepfamilies. That's why this affects a lot, and for a child they're the safe frames – and there's a lot to miss. Our complex family pattern leads to the loss of contact with the stela family, because it is not natural to maintain it. But for the children who have attached themselves to these, it would be natural if they could choose. How can this be done? Breakup is never the choice of children, it is the choice of adults. The children are part of the purchase and must live the life that is chosen for them. Challenges adults have, coloring children's everyday lives. Children are responsive to moods at home. They are the most loyal, and they prefer not to take sides – they are equally happy in both parties. For some, a breakup can be a relief and a good thing. Violence, strife and unrest do not give any good growth, but in any case a break will be traumatic, have sorrow in itself and could cause lasting problems. Back to the NRK Super, where it was strong to hear children's experiences about how it was to live in a back, about being tired when one went from one of the parents, about the lack of daily association and about concerns. There were a lot of different reactions, but they were similar. It must be tiring not to stay stuck anywhere, double up with clothes or clothes that are always somewhere else – different rules every week. Yes, that's how I could still have. The theme is sensitive, and that may not be what we discuss most often in this room. But when the number of children covered by this has become so large, we have to look at it as the social problem it is. When at least 80 children per day are in this situation – over 30,000 a year – we need to see if we do enough. How are we going to prevent and repair society? Both are equally important. It is important that people remain in society and get help in dealing with their adult challenges, while at the same time helping their children when the breakup is a reality. Forced mediation is one measure designed to protect the best interests of children and provide a little more predictability in the future. Many people want even more hours of mediation and/or forced conversation with children. The question that should be raised in the case of an obligatory conversation with all children in the event of a break-up is about one then when those children who have problems or about a lower problem for those who do not. To expose a child to a conversation with a close stranger to check if everything is okay, I have little faith in the lead ahead. Security is the key. Safety is not built over the table, and not all children have problems there and there. Children are at all ages, with different challenges, and therefore we cannot find one universal system that can solve all problems. But society has to set up where the need for conversations is present. It can be done as naturally at a family protection office as in kindergarten. Children must be allowed to be children, and they must be helped in a safe environment when problems arise. Good parental cooperation is also an important contribution to avoiding problems. Many adults need help to do this, and here family protection offices can contribute with their skills and experience. Kindergarten and school have highly skilled employees, and they see children a lot. They use different types of tools to find out what the stand is, and they should also be given the opportunity to fill their skills in terms of new methods they can use, or they can help to develop new ones themselves. Not all children can talk about it, and that's why smart adults need to see, know and know, and who can pass on where it's necessary. Health nurses in both kindergarten and school are important, and there should be more of them. Children’s gardeners, teachers, and health sisters are trustees who know and can easily confide in their children. That is why it is important for sufficient staff with good competence and that municipalities are able to do so, with a good and predictable local economy. Moving and losing friends can cause anxiety and anxiety – how can a better person organize here? For some, it has been successful that parents live behind the child instead of the child, who chooses to live near each other in order to avoid school change and loss of the community, but all understand that these are schemes that they don't always get. We as a society can't impose where they're going to live, but we can influence to get sensible solutions. When the Family and Culture Committee was in the municipality of Arendal, we heard about a group arrangement for children called ‘Normal but Evil’, where all children are invited to a scheme in the direction of a social teacher and one with family therapist competence. This was very successful after their statement, with good feedback. Adults for Children can refer to PlS, a program for divorce groups in kindergarten and school. The goal is to ask children what the challenge is, and what can help. Letting your children contribute and use their thoughts is good and accurate, because it is important to know how to communicate and ask the right questions. In many cases, putting words on things is difficult, and working in groups may be easier. Hearing that other bales right away, or knowing each other, can be of use to many. But there's someone who needs to get it started. Other measures may include role-playing, practical examples and conversations where the focus is on children’s experiences. Providing knowledge of the consequences of a break in a life increases the understanding of why a break is taking place, and – not least – relieve them of the guilt and raise awareness that it is not those who are going to make the difficult choices about where to live, things are important for children to know about. Prevention is also important. Action needs to be taken to keep people together and manage to solve the problems before they become too big. Here, as a society, we can do a good deal, even though there are a lot of different factors that also play in there, that we as a society can't solve. But poor economy and disease are two areas that can create conflict. Providing childcare facilities, offering Home-Start and SFO, providing financial support, offering marriage training, and providing family therapy may be some of the aids – and not least, job opportunities. So it's always hard to know if people are struggling in their lives, but one actor here, who may often be forgotten, can be the warden, who can reveal more quickly than others, and know when more help is needed. I would also like to mention other current actors, such as cohabitation therapists, psychologists and sociologists. I have mentioned the family protection office before, but I would also like to mention employees in recreational clubs or organisations in sports or culture, which may be those who see things are not quite OK. For them to have knowledge of where to turn to to give help and possibly to lose on, I believe it is important. I believe that better information and public debate are necessary. I don't have the answers to what's best, but I challenge the Council of State on what kind of action she sees that can help to ease the everyday lives of the weakest of the weakest children, and for those who struggle after a break in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1702	Initially, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important question here today. Divorce and breakup are bad, both for the adults who split up, and not least for the children who are involved. I fully agree with the interpellant that there is a need to ensure that children who experience divorce and break-up are properly cared for. Several of the issues and measures that we are going to talk about today were also addressed during the inter-pelling debate on Thursday 30 April, which concerned children's own conversation hours in the context of mediation at the Family Protection Office. I am pleased that Stortinget is concerned about how we can best care for children who experience divorce. The interpellant referred to the NRK Super's theme week on divorce for a while back, how many children shared their feelings and gave advice to parents who were going to split up. I think it is affordable for the NRK to shed light on this issue so thoroughly and deal with it in a constructive and nuanced way. As Minister for Children, I am concerned that children should be heard, and that they should be given opportunities to participate in questions relating to themselves. It is the children who are experts in their own lives, and we should listen much more to their experiences and views. I often think that the media produce a break in life from a clear adult perspective. The parents tend to take the word and don't think they're being taken well enough into consideration. It is therefore very good that the NRK Super – which is the channel of children – addresses what children themselves think it is to have parents who do not live together. I also noticed something that was said during the previous interpellation on the topic, that although a break is not perceived as dramatic to the parents, it can still be experienced dramatically and difficult for the children. This is something we shouldn't forget. We have to be concerned about seeing the situation from the child's perspective – as it was done at NRK Super. Parents are the most important people in children’s lives. When children experience parental separation and separation, this is an event that affects and changes the child's own life. Children are different and will also experience a breakup. There is no simple answer to what a child needs. But what's common is that all kids need adults who see them, and who see the needs of the changed life situation they're facing. This applies primarily to the parents themselves, but also to grandparents, aunts and uncles, teachers, nursery workers and other adults who are around the child. One of the most important measures we can take for children who experience a break in their lives is to ensure that their parents take good care of their children in this demanding phase of life. Parents have to talk to their children about what's happening, and help them if they're struggling. Most parents take good care of their children after a break, but at a time when they themselves struggle with their own problems and difficult feelings, we know that this can be difficult. It is important that parents are helped to put their children’s interests ahead of their own, and are helped to deal with disagreements in a way that does not involve the children. I am concerned that we should facilitate early action and prevention through good action and cross-sectoral cooperation. In addition to the mandatory mediation after a break in life, family protection services have many voluntary offers to families who experience this. Using several hours of mediation to provide good arrangements for children or to help with parental cooperation can help dampen the conflict between parents, raise children and make the needs of children more visible. Many family protection offices offer ‘Continued parents’ courses on parental cooperation after a break in life. The aim is to strengthen the ability of parents to cooperate and thus contribute to the promotion of a safe and stable upbringing for children. In the previous interpellation, the theme was how the government follows up the Storting's request decision concerning the offer of their own conversation hours at the family protection office for children in connection with mediation after a break in life. As I already explained, the department is now working to increase the number of children offered to participate in mediation. I think it is important that children who want it should have an opportunity to communicate how they feel, what they think and what is important to them, and to exercise influence over decisions that concern them. In such a conversation, the child may also receive guidance on the auxiliaries and other offers the child can use if needed. We know that some of the things that pose the highest risk of long-term and serious consequences for the well-being and development of children after a break in life are persistently high levels of conflict between parents. It is therefore a central goal for us to provide parents with a high level of conflict assistance through the family protection service to mitigate the level of conflict and to cooperate for the best of the child. The family protection budget has been strengthened in 2015, including: by means of the budget agreement in the Grand Duchy. The strength corrects, among other things. against the work of family protection in families with a high level of conflict. Work on high-conflict cases was strengthened, inter alia: by increasing the number of posts at the family protection offices. Children’s, youth and family directorates are currently working on technical and methodological developments in high-conflict matters and, on behalf of the Ministry, have developed a plan to strengthen the overall provision of family protection for children and parents in cases of high level of conflict. The Directorate also continues to work to strengthen the position of children in mediation. This government is committed to providing municipalities with good tools to support families. The support scheme for parental support measures aims to stimulate more municipalities to provide help to children at home. Municipalities may apply for funds to develop an offer in the form of parental guidance and other parental support measures locally. It is an active commitment to prevention. The Government proposes to strengthen the grant scheme from around 6 million. NOK 17.8 million. kr in relation to the revised national budget this year. Even with good carers around them, the children may need offers outside the family after a breakup. It can often be good for the child to talk to an adult who is not involved in the breakup, and with whom the child can have confidence and talk openly. Children can come to conversations with family protection and have conversations about family problems, for example: on conflicts between parents. Some family protection offices also organise discussion groups for children after parental breakups, often in cooperation with school and health sisters. There are different models and organisation of interview groups for children and young people after a break in life. Some schools offer students to participate in school health interview groups. In the groups, children meet others who have experienced the same thing, and they can share both thoughts and experiences. Research shows that young people with divorced parents participating in discussion groups based on health promotion principles can experience increased coherence and meaning in life and thus also improve their own health. Young people themselves say that the experience of sharing, identifying with others in the same situation and supporting and transparency between members of the group is one of the factors that makes it good to participate in such discussion groups. Not all children have the opportunity or wish to join a conversation group. I think it is important that children who want it can have good contact with the health centre and the health sister and talk about their situation, get comfort and get good advice. Health and care services for children and young people are an important area of government activity, and we work to strengthen and further develop health and school health services. It is an important priority for this government to facilitate more people to have a stable and healthy family life and to receive early help to prevent life conflicts. This is done by ensuring good and accessible assistance for those who need it and by strengthening the prevention of children and families through early intervention and cross-border cooperation. I also want to mention that during 2016, the government will present a family message that will identify and discuss the challenges of a family policy for the future. The government will, among other things, focus on prevention and early efforts to ensure good child-growth conditions. One goal is to contribute to conflict resolution where the family and its parents are struggling. At the same time, the government will facilitate the freedom of families to carry out their core tasks in the best possible way. Strong and well-functioning families build the country. Where parents break up, it is important that we ensure a comprehensive offer that does not affect the child in a long and negative way. We have to make sure that children are seen and given the support they need in a difficult situation. In this way, we help our children cope with the breakup of life and live a good life with parents who live separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1740	I thank the Council of State for many good answers. I know that she cares and will make a difference. In Day Revy on 26 January we could hear about the 50/50 association arrangement and cooperation climate between the parents. It showed that 50/50 sharing does not automatically provide good cooperation, but on the contrary that good cooperation is required. The children are suffering if they are not there. One of the challenges pointed out is the conflict of loyalty, where the kids feel they have to choose one or not be able to choose. It was also mentioned in a meeting we had with a family protection office, that the kids choose 50/50 because they want to avoid one getting hurt. It's important to give young people an understanding that there's not a number of days together that show how happy their parents are in them. It's a task that family protection offices take seriously, after what they say. What is to be done must be for the best of children. We need to protect the children, not a parental protection. That's why we don't have to let the issue of getting together go on adult premises about what they want, but find the best solution for the kid in question there and then. The Council of State has also sent out to the hearing a case in which shared association shall be the general rule. One of the challenges kids took up in the series was just not to belong to one place, to be rootless. It will be interesting now to follow that debate and see the matter in the light of it. It will be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about how the best interests of children can be better taken care of by the system she has sent out here at the hearing. I think in this debate it's easy to think about what's fair and not what's right. What may be right for one young person may be totally wrong for another — just as the Council of State said. What can never be wrong is to show that the child is loved no matter how one chooses life to come. Safety and love never get wrong, and children deserve adults who can give it. Children need safe adults to deal with, safe adults with professional skills to whom they can rely, whom they can afford, and independent adults who can be trusted and who do not take care of the matter. What the NRC did in its series is also a measure that should not be underestimated. Lifting up societal challenges and pointing to some solutions I think will be good. The more a conversation about things, the easier it is to grasp what's not right. The most vulnerable party, the kids, must therefore be lifted into the political space. That is why the debate here today is important. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1761	Safe adults create safe children. There is a very good assignment in a good life, someone said to me during a visit to a family protection office. They also said that they often had such a long queue. When calling a parent and seeking help and guidance in life, they often have to say that they have to wait for two months. Then they say: Set up a mediation time – then you can come in two weeks. This shows that the efforts of the government, along with the bourgeois parties, have now done to strengthen family protection, can help reduce the waiting time for those seeking help to have a good couple relationship, be good parents, which helps to strengthen the security that children need. That's how many people can't live together. It may be best for the whole family to make a divorce, and then it is important that we have a good offer for these families. And 80 children -- like the interpellant, I'm concerned that there's a large number of children who every day experience an earthquake in their everyday lives, that's going to be a big change. I'm sure you're asking all the children, there's no one who wants to have two different homes – stay with mom and dad every other week or stay in the suitcase. We also know that having two dwellings is demanding every day or every week. At the same time, there are a lot of families that are able to make this work. That's very good. Most families are able to reach an agreement. But for the families who are struggling and for the children who are struggling, we need an auxiliaries to help the individual family. I am very happy that there is a good offer in each municipality, and that there are health centres, schools and family protection offices that provide it with help. We have also sent out to the hearing, on which the interpellant was involved, a proposal on equal parenthood. The major conflicts for families are often those relating to cohabitation and, not least, movement, which the interpellant had in mind in its first article. Moving from friends, from playmates, from a well-functioning association can be challenging for the individual child. Therefore, it will be exciting to follow that consultation. I think it's important that we also focus on equal parenting, and that the children are entitled to get together with both their parents. I would like to stress that it is always the freedom of contract that parents have today, which is to apply, and it is the best of the children that is to be the main concern of the work to be done with regard to equal parenthood.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1776	How to facilitate a good daily life for children and adults even when parents break up is an important political discussion. We know that there are many good arguments for taking the discussion. At the same time, we should be careful to stigmatise any children and put them into a separate category of common denominators, such as: The divorce kids. We're all concerned about seeing the child, and that we're facilitating cooperative venues that work – that as a society we can manage and have the ability to have a safety net when needed. All adults and all children may find it difficult to divorce. Then it is important that we have rigged, so that kindergartens, schools and health professionals are ready to support with the necessary measures when needed. I myself am concerned with a voluntary encounter. In this way, there is every reason to give honor to the NRK, who has taken a great responsibility for society and is putting the issues into their broadcasts specifically for children. I think everyone in this room is busy by and with the hand of the heart can say that with their suggestions or their policies they want to do what is the very best for all children. The starting points are slightly different, but it's with good intentions. My point of taking the floor in today's debate is to try to prevent something that, in my view, sometimes leads to generalising the children who experience divorce. We have to be careful to make them poor, read them with compassion, tell them that divorce children are children with challenges, or, for that matter, generalize and take children into conversation hours in an office away from the safe environment they experience in, for example. kindergarten and school. It can be difficult to be both a child and an adult in parts of life. Let us politically make sure that the difficult part of life is as short as possible, and that the help is there when you need it – in a safe environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1791	First, I want to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic that affects a lot of children. A breakup is like a little mini-disaster. Adults are getting an increased chance of getting away from work, of getting depression, and a lot of people get hurt financially. This is what adults can be exposed to – adults, who, after all, have a kind of freedom of choice up there. Think, then, of what this means for the children: a safe universe that ceases, a change in everything that is known, and perhaps new people to relate to at home – and all of this without a single opportunity to prevent, alter or choose anything else. We have previously discussed the children's right to be heard in mediation that the family has to go through after a breakup. Giving children the right to be heard is giving them an opportunity to take some power back in a difficult situation. The interpellant lists a number of instruments in its interpellation and asks which are most important for the care of children. I must in this connection quote another wise type, Ole Brumm: Yes, thank you, both! For example, it is important to offer all those who strive in a life – everyone who has been with someone knows that every day is not sunshine – and having someone to go to before the break can be decisive and perhaps prevent some children from getting their lives changed. Here, a lot of family protection offices do a very good job, and I'm glad that we've strengthened these in our budgets. But not everyone manages to stay together, and not everyone should stay together either, and then there must be good arrangements for adults – but most of all for the children – and I know that many municipalities are working well on this. They have discussion groups, extended health care services and now they are also getting the funds of their health centres strengthened. When all of this is said, maybe what NRK Super is doing, and a little bit of what we're doing here, is important. We've had a tendency for a period of time to discuss a break-in of adult premises, in a bit of a misconception about dragging adult people on their toes and making it even heavier for them in a difficult situation, and then we haven't talked about what the children are experiencing. We have been very concerned about the so-called happy divorce. The problem with this is that the big pink elephant is there anyway, although it has not been introduced. Children’s experiences and reactions to adult choices have been noted in kindergartens, schools and other adults around the children. Children are told that they will be protected from the responsibility of bearing the grief, anger and loneliness of their parents. At the same time, they're busy knowing why their parents are leaving each other, especially knowing that it's not their fault, and being allowed to tell them how they feel that their parents are now going to live on each other's side. That's why it's important that we talk to and not talk about the children and how they feel, that children's experiences are taken seriously, and that children are heard when they tell us things that can hurt us adults. Just by being listening, putting our own feelings and needs a little bit on hold and putting the children's needs first, we adults can make good, qualified choices now and for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1818	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this issue. It's a theme that I think engages and touches many, whether you've experienced it yourself, know someone or have someone in the family. I think the most important thing to do is to provide continued support for family protection, health centres, etc. I also want to promise what Haukeland Liadal was into, because I'm afraid to stigmatize a group. It is not that all divorce children experience this negatively. Not everyone has the same dramatic experience. Someone might feel more positive, for everything I know, and I don't want a divorce child to be put into one group. I am concerned that there is help and offer, no matter what phase you are in in life, whether you live in a family relationship – some of them may also have difficulty, we know – or you have experienced a divorce. I don't want to stigmatize, but like the interpellant, I'm busy with children falling outside, children who need help, and that children should get help in time, in the right place, when they're having trouble. I also believe that an equal parentship, to which the Council of State was involved, can contribute to the mitigation of conflict. There is no doubt that children who have to make difficult choices, who have to choose one of the parents, have a bad conscience because you may be less with one of the parents than with the other. It may be exciting to see the outcome of what you think of it in the hearing, that parents have to take greater responsibility for coordinating and cooperating on the child. Because that's the child's best we're talking about, and sometimes it's actually also okay that there's one parent alone who's responsible. The most important thing we can do is to provide a safety net at all stages for all children, when they need it, and not treat them as one group.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1829	First of all, I would like to extend a great thank you to the representative Sonja Mandt for this interpellation to the Council of State Horne. I think that a lot of people – both children and adults – experienced the NRK Super theme week about divorce and breakup as very good and important. It is great that the representative Mandt takes the initiative to debate this issue in Stortinget. We adults often find it difficult to talk about divorce. We'd rather not hurt each other, and we know that it's always hard for everyone outside of a couple relationship to know what the situation is. We know that sometimes divorce is necessary, either for one or for both parties, but we also know that for a child the world looks different than for adults. For a child, divorce means that everything changes, and there are several ways we can work together for children who have it difficult. For many children, a break between parents means a heavy load. Since so many families experience divorce and family change each year, it is important to talk about this and find out what situations are difficult, and what you can do to help the children and families who are in a difficult situation. It is especially important that we do what we can to ensure that the children's situation before, during and after the breakup is optimised and with the lowest level of conflict between their parents. We know that conflict can be harmful to the children, and that everything that seems anti-conflict is good. The Committee knows about the Grenland Family Office, where they ask everyone who's going for mediation, if they want to take the children with them. They believe that the method they use, ‘Children in mediation’, serves to mitigate conflict and solves a lot for the children and for the family as a whole. We've discussed this on a previous occasion, but I also want to mention it here. So I'm not saying that this is kind of seductive, seductive for all children, but it's going to be interesting to read the evaluation that the University of Tromsø is completing these days. We are also pleased that the government is working on how all children in a divorce situation can be guaranteed participation in mediation as well. When we know that conflict is harmful to the children, and that everything that works to mitigate conflict is good, we have to work to ensure that conflicts do not escalate by getting into the justice system. The Court of Justice considers it necessary to provide the family protection offices with even more resources. When you see what amounts the courts spend on experts — approx. 70 million. kr in the year – it should be possible to find funds for further strengthening of family protection. The judges should send several cases back to the family protection offices, which will be able to take these matters quickly and put in the hands of experienced and particularly suitable brokers. This requires good contact and interaction between the district court and the family protection offices and more resources to the family protection offices. This is also the view of the Court of Justice. The Children’s Ombudsman also recommends in his report, ‘The voice of the children is silent in the storm’, that mandatory mediation be introduced for several hours, as does the Sintef in its comprehensive report on the mediation system. Many measures can reduce conflicts: better parental cooperation, help children after a break. Participation of children should become a common practice in all mediation cases. The Christian People's Party believes that several mandatory mediation hours need to be considered, and there is a need for further strengthening of family protection. It is also an important point that health care needs to be strengthened, including earmarking, if necessary, so that there can be more health-care sisters in schools and in health-care centres. For children, this is about many of them having to talk to. They need good family protection, but they also need safe adults around them that they can talk to, and for many, school health services are just such a place where children can turn. There's a low threshold, and they're met by adults who have good skills and who can listen to what the kids have on their hearts. It's important that when we discuss a topic like this, we look for the best solutions for the children affected by this. So I also believe that this is not about stigmatizing a group, or about making a group of children special, but when we know that children are involved, and that for many of them this is so difficult, we have to put in the measures that work, and that is why I am also very happy that Sonja Mandt has raised this debate in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1846	Children are a gift. The representative Hareide, whom I am so lucky to be for today, will probably be the first to sign it. Fortunately, when you become a mother or a father, most of us have a strong need to protect our children from evil and difficult things. It turns out to be an impossible task. Some of what we want to protect our children from is divorce and breakup. I would like to thank the representative, Sonja Mangt, who is taking the initiative in a debate in Stortinget on how we can help children in such a situation. Children should use most of their cancers to grow and develop. They should not need to use forces and time to adapt to the conflict. Many thousands of new children each year experience a break in their lives with parents. This is always difficult for children, but for most people it's hard to live with. Nevertheless, we know that for too much of the children, the breakup means the beginning of a long period of conflict and division. We know that conflict is harmful for children. Children who experience strong conflict between parents are not well. This applies to conflicts both before and after the breakup of life. Children with parents who live together and who have a high level of conflict suffer from it. Children with divorced parents who have a high level of conflict are also in a difficult situation. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has previously pointed to the need for an action plan to reduce conflicts and to improve parental cooperation after offences. Hence, the Christian People's Party is so engrossed by strong family protection. In the event of a difficult break in life, family protection can help parents to keep their focus on the child. For many children and families, family protection can contribute to mediation, conversations with the adults – individually and together – and conversations with the children. One of the most important things for the child is having someone talk about what's happening, and whether what the child feels and thinks about when parents are going to leave each other, or not live together. Many talk to parents, siblings, or friends. Sometimes it can also be natural, and perhaps even better, to talk to other adults. Then it's nice to be able to talk to a teacher, a health sister, someone in family protection, maybe the warden, or others in the family, like an aunt, an uncle, or a grandparent. The point is that the child needs an adult, one that the child trusts. Children who experience parents leaving each other are one of the most frequently asked questions from individuals, both children and adults. It's pretty strong reading, all the questions that are being submitted from children who are in a difficult situation because parents are in conflict. Many of the questions are on the Barneombode website. They give a good pointer to where the challenges lie. Children’s housing is a concern that it can often be that some children are easily forgotten about the conflict and that the focus is on their parents’ rights and needs, as the minister also pointed out. Difor is also the Barneombode so concerned that children should be heard when parents are for mediation. It is a very good proposal, which the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is working on and following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1859	Children's participation and listening to what they think is important, and when the NRK deals with such things, it's our responsibility to see if there's anything we can do about it. There are several people who have been responsible for their parents, and it is clear that it is important, because that is where the conflicts are, and there are often conflicts that make it difficult. Preventing conflicts may therefore be one of the most important things we adults can do. Family protection offices do a good job. I've visited several of them with the committee, and they have a little bit of different methods. Maybe we should see if there are methods that they should adopt from each other, and learn from each other, like for example. The one in Grenland. ‘Best practice’ is often what may be tricked, and one does not have to reinvent the powder each time. I think it's great to strengthen family protection – all credit to it – but once again I'll mention several things that are related: having an economy to live off to mitigate the level of conflict – that is, to have work or social security that you can live on, enough employees with competence in school and kindergarten, more health sisters, which in turn means a better community economy, so that it takes priority. It's this thing that's related to getting a good baby's life. Sharing knowledge is important, as I said, and what's right in one place might be good somewhere else. It's not like it's said that every child has problems. That's why it's very hard to make a template for everyone. I don't think there's one answer with two lines attached to this problem. My intention was to raise the debate, so that we could look at this also in Stortinget, and that we are talking about a break in the lives of children, who also Mette Tønder was so right in front of. Talking about the problem, lifting it into the public debate, makes it less dangerous and less difficult. That's why we have to keep going. We must continue to use political life to make good decisions and laws for young people, but we must also take part in the public debate – on television, on social media and elsewhere in the public debate. Governments are notifying a family message in 2016, and I look forward to that. It is going to be exciting to discuss it, and there we will probably also come back to many other measures. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good debate, and once again thank you to the NRK Super. I hope that they can address several difficult issues in the future, so that we can lift them into the political life here on the Storting and see if there is something we should do or change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1877	A couple of weeks ago, I had a recording meeting for the family message, where we had a visit from the Children's Panel to the Red Children, and there was this very topic up there: what can we adults do for you kids who feel that parents are leaving each other? What they were very clear and clear about was that they had to be heard, and that it shouldn't be taboo to talk about it. There I believe that the NRK Super has in some way contributed to making this topic harmless. But then there was one thing they said was the most important thing, and it was that the parents had to talk to them. So parents have to dry out explaining to them what's going on, because that's often what's a problem. Most people are able to have a good working day, even though their parents are divorced – both in the case of parental cooperation and in the case of the individual child – so we should not make all children poor because if they live in divorced family relationships. But it's important that the children who need it get help and support, that they have someone to talk to, and not least that parents get good guidance and competence on what the children are going through, and on how they can talk to the children. We know that most children have a loyalty to both parents. That's why it's important that we, as parents, are conscious of the task we have of giving children that security, to say that the choice they're making, is okay for me. It's important to be a parent and say, "Feed you with your mom or have sex with your dad this Christmas holiday, or this summer vacation -- to know that next week it's your turn, or next vacation it's my turn. If the kids know that the parents are doing well when they're with the other party, it also helps to make their everyday life better. The way we adults behave is important for how the children are doing, and therefore adults have to be able to care for their children. Then the representative Bekkewold was involved in this with the courts. The South African Court of Justice has good cooperation with family protection, in which the court clearly says: No, you do not get your case before the court until you have been and meddled again. It has helped a lot of families to go one more round, to see their children and to get a good deal. The interpellant was concerned about what had to be done. I am pleased that the government has strengthened both the rights of children through the law, which clearly says that children should be heard, and we have strengthened the community economy, we are strengthening health centres, we are strengthening family protection, and, not least, there has now also been a strategy against child poverty, which is also important for the children living in those families. I'm glad the Storting has a commitment to this. I can promise that the government will follow up on this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1897	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1913	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to open this discussion on the possibilities in Northern Norway. A little background first: As part of the compromise between the red-green government parties on the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja, it was four years ago, i.e. in 2011, in Meld. St. 10 for 2010–2011 decided that four departments – the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Environment – would jointly carry out a comprehensive collection of knowledge on the effects and effects of increased investment in value creation in North Norway. The sentences in the Storing Message were the starting point for the deciduous largest and most extensive distribution in the history of the nutritional possibilities in the north, and became a link of various reports, distributions and scenario processes involving a great many people – several thousand people – in the northernmost counties and many different knowledge environments both in the country and outside. The process and the result were extensive and impressive. In 2011, many believed that the large potential of the region was within oil and gas, but the knowledge gathered showed that the growth potential of other industries was much greater. It just pulled up a draw game of different possibilities in the north. The distribution showed, among other things: that the fishing and aquaculture industries can grow from today’s 11,000 annual works to nearly 60,000 annual works by 2050, if we allow politicians to do so – significantly less if we continue to do so as before. Similarly, the distribution showed that other industries and businesses could grow with a total of 46 000 annual works in the same period, also significantly less today’s policy. The same showed the distribution in travel, mineral industry, etc. It was in many ways a national exercise of what possibilities actually exist in North Norway. In many ways, the distribution, which is unique in Norwegian context as a geographical breakdown of the possibilities in a part of the country, showed that Norway’s potential lies in the north, i.e. if Norway continues to develop. If we're going to keep up and develop our well-being and our societies, the key to it is in the north. But – and there are two big but here: first, the statement showed that this does not happen by itself. With today's policy, this potential will not be triggered. To realize the great possibilities in the north, at least four things are required, as the output points to: A systematic lifting of the Nordic knowledge environments and general competence enhancement in all selected industries. We need to assess labour immigration in order to provide enough labour to realise the industries and industries that are high in the north. Among other things, it was lifted to assess labour immigration from Russia, as is done in Finland. In order to compensate for the fact that the country part has less available risk capital, public funds are required in a transitional phase to contribute to its investment in potential. Finally, what is today's theme: if the bet in North Norway could be realised, a special period of exceptional infrastructure uplifting will be required. Infrastructure is simply too underdeveloped, and it acts as a barrier to positive development in the north. The second big one is that we need to make direction choices. We just can't bet on everything at the same time. It's not a topic for this debate, it'll come back to me on a later occasion, but let's take infrastructure in North Norway. A great many of the industries we see as promising have a great export potential. North Norway is a large part of the country. Achieving markets that are far away, fast with fresh raw materials is a major challenge. We're going into a time when everything indicates that we're going to have a stricter climate policy, with increased costs for anything that costs to burn CO2. This means that we need something fast, which can carry large amounts – possibly things that weigh a lot – quickly to the markets in the south. The new opportunities that have opened up in North Norway have created new winds to build up the railways in North Norway. I think that the big industrial potential in North Norway should be realized, we're really going to build something out of the amazing natural resources we have there, we're not just going to be an export region, a host country for other players, and we're going to have an industrialization of North Norway, and it's going to require a really big investment in infrastructure. This cannot happen along the way. An ore cannot be transported along the way. And – which I also want to get into – the large quantity of fish, which we see a development in the north, can't be transported along the way either. So my first question to the Minister is simply: what is the government's strategy in the field of transport to make transport a strength in North Norway's investment, how can transport facilitate a positive development in North Norway, and what is the government's strategy on it, entirely concrete? The second question I'm going to go in the interpellation is for the railway in the north. I will come here with five reasons why the railway in the north has been updated again: First of all, there is a railway revolution in our neighbouring countries, just outside the north-north front door. Last decade, up to and including this year, the EU will invest 1 200 billion astronomically. NOK on the railway. The Swedish have opened the high-tech section between Kramfors and Umeå in 2010. It's as long as any Tromsbane. The next stage is 25 miles, between Umeå and Luleå. The Swedish sees the bet on ‘region magnification’, which links cities along the coast, as future ones. With full EU support, the Swedes continue to think towards a coherent railway across the entire North Callot, from Luleå to Finland, to Murmansk and then southwards to St. Petersburg. We are simply seeing a revolution in the railway infrastructure in the North Callot, in which Norway does not participate. Secondly, the Ofot is already detonated, and at least it will be detonated in 20 years. Explosive development in mining creates itself the need for new solutions. Iron ore over Narvik will be more than double by 2020, from 17 billion tonnes to 35 to 40 billion tonnes, and increase further by 2020. Ofotbanen and Narvik harbour already have capacity problems and are the only option for the ore companies today. Transport ministers in Sweden and Finland also call for clarifications from the Norwegian side on the future of the route. New crossing tracks are not sufficient to meet the need, and double-track Narvik only meets part of the challenge. Thus, we are in a situation where we can draw a line to Tromsø and thus remedy the ore removal. Thirdly, transport of seafood from Tromsø through Sweden has significant potential. Already today, the ARE train carries a train with seafood every day – it is from 2013. Tromsø is today Norway's second largest fishing port. Providing an efficient infrastructure will be crucial to maintain this position. Over Ofotbanen, about 13 000 tonnes of fish are exported out of the county each year. There were only 40,000 tonnes in 2007, and it is estimated that by 2040, one million tonnes of fish will be exported. Fourthly, the Tromsbane will bind people in the region closer together. There will be shorter distances between the different parts of the region. We have the Botten region with its 350,000 inhabitants right in the vicinity. This could create new labour market regions and bring people closer together. Unfortunately, the North-East Passage is becoming a reality. If Norway is to be in position for this development, several ports along the north coast will be required. Fifth, Tromsø is one of the five designated national ports in the country, the only one of the five without rail connections. And finally, the climate option: the Swedish X2000 train emits as much CO2 on one kilometer as a car does on one meter, and as a plane does on two centimeters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1970	I would like to thank the interpellant for travelling an important discussion. The Nordgebietsbet is heavy in the government and among the cooperation parties. It is a region with significant industrial and nutritional potential, significant potential for even more fishing, a region with large energy and natural resources that could be exploited efficiently and efficiently and with a high potential for mining activity. There are industries on which this government is based. When we have said yes to similar activity in some places in the country, we experience protests – not homage. Nevertheless, it is important for us to say that the mining industry is important. We're going to make sure that it gets good conditions to work on. In the oil and gas sector, e.g., a 23rd round of concessions has made considerably more choices regarding the development of oil and gas industries in the off-coastal region of North Norway. We have said yes to the construction of a power line, which means that one can use more of the renewable energy that lies in North Norway, and there is a lot of exciting happening around new areas, which can be the basis for good oil and gas areas, such as the Johan Castberg field. It's industries that we're going to continue to invest in. In the field of fisheries, it is because of this, and in tourism, we know that it is very exciting. Common to all of these is that one has to have good infrastructure. One must have good infrastructure to ship goods around the region internally, but also out of the exporting region, and one must have good infrastructure to ensure that a few imported goods and have imported means of production to further develop and build new industries. Not least, you have to have good infrastructure so that people get to and from work in a simple way in everyday life, that you don't experience people commuting over long distances, seeing that the roads are being closed because of bad weather, or because they're raging. One must ensure that one in the more densely populated areas has an infrastructure that works and does not have too little capacity on the roads, with queues and lost working time as a result. The northern regions are a bet area, as mentioned. We have a lot of investigations we can build on from previous governments. We've done a lot of work ourselves. ‘North time’ was presented in April 2014 — it is referred to from the inter-pellant. It contains good analyses of growth potential in the north. The document, together with all the supporting material, will form the basis for the national transport plan with which we are working and which will be promoted in 2016-2017. In addition, the government presented our status report called the 'north globe' last November. This document is about how the government will promote value creation and resource use in the northern regions. Traffic is one of five areas of activity. But for me, the most important thing in transport is to solve the transport challenges we have, not to sit down and point to one mode of transport in concrete terms and say: this is to solve all needs. We are a diverse country, we have a wide variety of transport needs. That's why it's important for me to see how we can get road, rail, port, shipping and aviation to work together in the best possible way. Over the course of my 19 months as a state councillor I have traveled a lot around the country, and especially in North Norway, I have driven the E10, E6 and E105, although it is very short – and have talked a lot with different companies and many carriers, from those who own the transport companies, to those who sit and drive the truck. I've been talking to those who work at the port of Narvik, I've been talking to those who drive at Ofotbanen, and I've met those who work at the port of Tromsø. Seeing the diversity of supply that must be coherent in order for the value chain to work is important. It is not only useful for us to point to the truck when we know that much of the fish that is now being exported by Narvik is going by train. It is not only useful to point to the train if the truck coming from the coast does not arrive at the terminal. It's no use for us just to point to the European roads if the county roads don't work, and it's not only useful to bet on the county roads if the highways don't work. That's the relationship here that's important. That's what I also experience for both carriers and businesses – one does not point to a single mode of transport, one points to the context of this. That is what is at stake when we are betting on the ports, for example. improving the passageways into ports is well ahead of the national transport plan. That's what's at stake when we think about aviation and look at how we, for example. can develop Tromsø airport in a better way and have an accelerated terminal for foreign traffic of around three years. This is based on looking at the airport structure in North Norway and how we are going to ensure that small towns with long distances have their airports, while areas with greater potential can get larger airports, because it also provides a better route offer. This whole is the basis for speeding up investment in rail – for example, on the Nordlandsbahn, where we are completing the new Transland stop, to be used in 2015, and increasing the number of take-offs on the Salt Pendant, simply to provide a better transport offer. This is the basis when we establish a hold at Reitan/Otteråga, both outside Bodø, and it is set at 155 million. kr to new double track Hell–Vörnes for better correspondence with the Nordlandsbanen. This whole thing is based on when we've set off at Ofotbanen at 142 million. kr this year to complete works to extend the crossing tracks on the Bjørnberg, and it is set to around 100 million. kr to strengthen the power supply on Ofotbanen, simply because it is necessary to ensure that the railway becomes more robust. Ofotbanen is a success, not only because of ore, but also because we are getting more and more of the goods transport to North Norway to get via containers, via rail, instead of trucks. Then there is also a need for increased capacity. I have been in Sweden and Finland for the last 18-19 months to discuss and hear what the Swedes and Finns think about their side of the border in terms of the railway. We know they've been discussing the railway to the churches, there's a discussion about putting something to Skibotn, and a discussion about doing things in connection with Narvik. The Swedes have some plans, and Finns have some plans. But what's important to me is that we do things in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, because when what's transported has its origin outside our borders, it's okay that we, in cooperation with those countries, make infrastructure investments that have a whole. It helps little to invest a lot on the Swedish side if they meet a crooked path on the Norwegian side. Similarly, there is no point in investing on the Norwegian side if one has thought for the transport of goods in completely different directions on the foreign side. It's only a week since I discussed this with one of the Swedish government's strategy councils, and it's only been a few months since I was in Finland to discuss the exact same thing. I imagine that we are going to have good reinforcement of the rail systems between Norway, Sweden and Finland just to facilitate more of the transport of goods, more of the commercial transport, going by rail. I don't want to have the big growth in trailer transport that one has seen, when we know that it means something both to road safety and to road wear. We have to look at how we solve things as best we can in a whole. This is what we've done on the railway, and the conversations we have. On the way, it's also important that we get a better standard. We know that only in Troms are maintenance seats on the county roads intended for 6-8 billion. When we hear the local politicians speak. There's a lot of catching up in Finnmark, there's a lot of catching up in Northernland. After the government change, we have increased the appropriations for county roads by a three-digit percentage. Only in Troms are the appropriations for county roads increased by about 150 pst. So it is far from enough when you know how little money has been allocated to county roads for a long time. The aftermath is great. The same applies to national roads. We have increased the appropriations for maintenance on highways by 66 pst. compared to the budget submitted by the Stoltenberg II Government as late as last year, i.e. for 2014. 66 pst — that means 2015 is the first year in which Norwegian roads are maintained more than they are due. We are simply reducing the maintenance set-aside. That's the same thing as looking at the railway, that in North Norway and the rest of the country, maintenance on the railway is increased so much that we're reducing the maturity. It's the first step in creating an infrastructure that business trusts. It doesn't help to ask people to use the railway if they experience constant delays and cancellations. That's the trust we have to build up. Then we've also heard from business that the main thing is not necessarily how long the railway takes, but knowing that one comes out when one has promised. That's why we're starting with trust and maintenance. And then we're going to expand a lot more. So I could also mention a lot around the ports. Tromsø port is an important port for North Norway. The same is Narvik. I think it's more important to build capacity than to think that it's a good solution to start sending trucks that should have been in Tromsø, down to Narvik and vice versa. That's pretty long distances we're talking about. Instead, we have to build up the capacity in the different areas. I could mention Fauske as a good place, along with Bodø, for the outsourcing of different things. There is therefore great potential – the port of the Churches – to take the opposite end of Norway. A lot is being done on national port strategy, and a lot is being invested from both countries and not least from private interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e1998	What this acquisition of knowledge showed is that the questions we're discussing here are not just of a regional nature. There are simply national problem settings. Taking advantage of the potential and possibilities in the north is simply in the interests of the nation. When the council says that Tromsø is an important port for North Norway – yes, it is, but it is a very important port for Norway as a whole. It is Norway's largest and most important fishing port, for Norway's fourth largest export industry, depending on how one calculates. I thought the council answered some of my questions. The second question is whether the Council of State will look at the possibilities of the North Norway Railway, that is, to extend the line from Fauske to Narvik and to Tromsø. Could there be a solution that simply helps to trigger the potential for value creation in our part of the country? Do the government councils see possibilities there? As far as I've heard, it doesn't have the state council answered adequately. What I've tried to say about is that we're in a completely new situation now. The acquisition of knowledge has given us whole new information and shows that the potential is so great, the amount of goods to be transported out is so great – we are talking here about a time-lapse of exports of fish out of this part of the country – a time-lapse – compared to today’s situation, and today’s situation is that there are too many trailers on the roads in Northern Norway. We're talking about a time-lapse. This can't be done normally. We are talking about a tripling of the transport of ore, which we know is perhaps the very largest tonnage on the Norwegian railway today. There is an absolute need to do something about the existing routes we have today. Let's think that we can put more flies in one taste – stretch more lines, make it easier for fish to come to the market, give them more possibilities to transport ores to the sea, while also creating opportunities for industrial development in North Norway. That's the situation. With today's policy, which seems to be dependable out of the pulpit, there's nothing to suggest that we're going to have the potential that's in North Norway. In the background material of the National Transport Plan, which is on the websites of the Ministry of Transport, only modest growth in transport is forecast in the three northernmost counties. In other words, the national transport plan does not take into account the large potential. That means that the level of ambition of the government is very modest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2009	Just the last accusation, I think, is a little strange, because the document that is being criticised here, namely the National Transport Plan, was created under the previous government, where SV was involved. If he believes that the document is not good enough in relation to what North Norway needs, it is actually the red-green parties that made the document that he himself has read. So you're asking how it's followed up. There I have already mentioned that in almost all areas we are in front of the form. We are in front of the railway development form because we know that ore transport in Narvik port is very important. Ofotbanen is very important for this development, not just for Narvik as a city, but for the whole of North Norway. It is part of the nation's interest to get goods from Narvik via Sweden and down to Oslo for further deployment. It's part of the national idea. So we've done more than what was planned in the national transport plan. Because I fully agree, the national transport plan is not good enough. But that is not a criticism. I don't take that criticism to myself that we don't do enough. We're doing more than what's in the plan. So we've mentioned what we're doing on the way. We are in front of the form of building out the road. But I don't think it's a good idea that goods that naturally belong in Narvik port should be sent up to Tromsø just because the capacity is too poor in Narvik port. Well, then we'd better build Narvik harbor. Similarly, it would make little sense to start sending things from Kirkenes to Tromsø. Then we'd better expand the neighbourhoods. That's pretty long distances we're talking about here. Then I want to invest in developing these different regions in a national perspective rather than making long transport stages from one place to another. In terms of road, we've seen in the period 2010–2013 that less than 15 pst. national road investments were channelled to North Norway. In the two budgets that have now been adopted after the government change, more than 20 pst. We see the potential of a developed business, and we know what it means for the transport industry to have good transport years. That's why we've increased the appropriations for North Norway not only in dollars and ears, but also as a share of a growing budget. For me, it is a confirmation that this government and today’s majority see the needs that SV believes are too poorly described in the national transport plan. For me, the North Railway and Ofot Railway are the two most important routes to give priority to North Norway. I've met a lot of people who want a North Norway Railway. I think that's going to be in the longer term. First, I want to fix the routes we have, so people can trust them. So today, there are sections on the Northern Railway where a flag is used as a signal instead of digital communication media. I would rather arrange the road systems in North Norway first, so that the everyday journey that is already taking place works better. And then we can also discuss what is needed in the longer term by new transport capacities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2020	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for focusing on infrastructure and the North Region. That's very good. The Northern Region bet says the Minister is strongly involved in the government's work. It's also good, but it's important that it's not just speech, but action. It is quite correct that North Norway, which I use to name the North Region Initiative – that is, the whole of North Norway, from Helgeland and northwards – has a lot of resources that it is important to use. It is important that they can be handled and taken out in other parts of the country, but also in the part of the country. It's a part of the country that has a lot of oil and gas, we have a lot of power, and we're big on fish. The ore is mentioned by many here. It's an important resource that everyone wants to invest in, including us in North Norway. And of course, tourism is important. I fully agree with the Council of State that to succeed in this, it is obvious that good infrastructure is essential and important. We know how important the Ofot track, as we all know -- some of us have tried it, and some of us have got a lot of information about it -- is for the part of the country, we know how important it is to Narvik, and we know how important it is to extract the resources contained in the ore. But not least, it's important for what's more and more increasing, the beautiful balance that's on goods, as you get more and more goods over Narvik. Then I don't least think about what was said by the interpellant about fish. I am pleased with what we have granted to upgrade Ofotbanen, which is already there, and I am pleased that the Minister refers to it. But I also want to show that the minister has actually been visiting Narvik – as he rightly said – and said that this double-tracking is something we need to get a solution to outside the NTP. I have seen little about it after the newspapers were printed, so it could be exciting to hear if the minister has anything more to say to the Stortinget about it today. Then I'm glad you don't forget the tracks that are there – now we've mentioned the Ofot track, and we're not going to forget the Nordlandsbahn, which goes from Bodø to Trondheim, and which has a great need for upgrading. I could also have mentioned electrification, which is perhaps a little longer canvas, but which is also important in the long term. What is most important is cross-rails and automation, so that the use of the Northern Railway can be increased, both for freight and passenger chartering. There we also have a special stretch that I would like to mention when we discuss North Norway, and it's Rana Gruber's ore track, which goes on parts of the Northern Railway – 34 km from Mo in Rana and up to Salt Mountain. Locally, it is often referred to as the Dunderland Railway. I know the minister has also been there. They have now invested in 40 new ore vehicles to increase the efficiency of the Rana Gruber operation and can increase the capacity per vehicle from 24 to 30 tonnes. The last wagon will be delivered tomorrow, and tomorrow it will be baptism there. If I'm not completely wrong, the president should visit there, and that's nice. But that increase is of little use to them. Because of the fact that the track is in such a constitution as it is, it has to be upgraded. An investigation has now been carried out, and they are waiting for ‘go’ from the department to proceed with detailed planning. And then we'll see when it starts, but it's also incredibly important when it comes to action, and when it comes to what you say about the North Region bet. So I noticed that the minister wouldn't say anything about the extension of the tracks northwards, besides the one going to Bodø, and the one going to Narvik. I'll register it. The minister repeats every time he is on the pulpit in Stortinget, that this is the first year that expired stops on track and road, and that is good. When he has to defend that everything is not good enough, he refers to the previous government and the NTP. That's right, it's in line with the NTP. He is also good at comparing the figures with the 2014 Labour Party figures, and not the 2015 figures. I think it is right to do that, because the reason why you can say that you have stopped the maintenance is not the government's proposal. After all, decisions and majority decisions in the Storting have made it possible to stop the aftermath on the railways. So I just want to remind you that the Workers' Party had a total of six billion. kr more than the government in proposals for the promotion effort and 900 million. kr more than that adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2037	I would first like to say that it is not so unnatural for us to compare the last budget of the Stoltenberg government for 2014, which was actually an overall budget, with what was actually adopted that harvest because of our additions. The Stoltenberg government had intended to govern according to the low maintenance figures they provided in that budget. Maintenance is not immaterial when you're talking about railway, and a Delays and capacity reduction are caused both in freight and in passenger traffic. However, this is another debate. This is really about what opportunities there are to serve an important part of the country with transport measures in the future. I think it is important to realise that in a country such as Norway, it is important — perhaps the most important instrument in the transport sector and, to a large extent, in passenger transport. The railway only stands for 10 pst. of the public transport services in that country. The bus is the largest in terms of public transport – passenger transport. But the railway has a competitive advantage in terms of goods on long distances. That's why we have a good share of freight on both Bergensbanen, Dovrebanen, Nordlandsbanen and not least on Ofotbanen. But things are connected, so the Ofot track is an extension into the south – just like the Kongswingerbahn. It is a track that is important for the transport of goods from North Norway, and it also lacks investment. There are great expectations for the railway, and it has many important tasks for society. Not least for climate action, it is important to get more of the transport to the collective. The railway is the backbone, but not the main roadway. It is the backbone of public transport into and out of the major cities, it will contribute to the enlargement of regions, it will build cities together, and it will contribute to more goods on the road. Today, as I said, we have a very big aftertaste, and we've always begun to take over, and we're doing something about it. Then it was mentioned – and I think it is quite important – that you actually have to look beyond borders. In the last NTPs, there is tradition of not saying a single word about cross-border transport. The cross-border journey has been zero for eight years. Now we have a government and a state council that actually takes control of cross-border transport across the Swedish border and to some extent across to Finland. We hope to achieve better cooperation in the development of rail across borders. Connecting to the European rail network will be a major asset, but today all border crossings on the rail network are bottlenecks in Norway. We are not yet there that we can connect freely to the Swedish development – which is so lucky that they are actually a member of the EU and can benefit from the EU's rail investment. But it's possible to do more. We can be more offensive, and we're going to be more offensive. I think it's right that North Norway is served first and foremost by raising the standard on those roads and what is already there. There are too many incisions and too many problems associated with sometimes simply not being related to Norway. The provision of road maintenance, the upgrading of the road standard, the construction and the provision of sufficient capacity and standard for existing rail will be the short-term grips. So I register almost every four years that there's a question of extending the North Norwegian Railway. I've been in politics for quite many years, and I don't think it's been a campaign without it showing up. Maybe it wasn't that central two years ago, but it's actually a question of what we should prioritize. We give priority to maintenance, and we give priority to the climate and the major transport needs into and out of the big cities. And then the country has to hang together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2054	It was good to hear the previous speeches from Akershus, who are concerned about the road standard in the north. There's evidence that there's a politician who has a national look at what he's doing, and I really appreciate that. It was a good post. There's an interesting interpellation debate that's dragged up here. For many years I have had the pleasure of traveling around the country and meeting most people, but also met business and heard their needs. In meeting with the business community or organisations, I tend to ask the question: if there are three things I can do as a big business representative – what are your priorities? Most of the time I get the answer back: Do something within transportation. Then it's usually way it's all about. If you meet fishing farms, which are located on the island of Water, on the island of Rebben, on Skjervøy or Arnøy, there is a trade and road they are asking for repair. Because you run in the fishing industry, you have very little time after the fish have been killed. Then that's the flexibility they lack. They lack flexibility when the fish get on the car and go into the market. If one road is closed, it is an advantage to have reversion options. If you have loaded that fish on board a train, for example, you are admitted that train is actually going non stop where it is going. Sometimes there are delays. The industry is also concerned that there are not too many bottlenecks. Recharging from car to train is one of those bottlenecks. They prefer to have many cards to play on, by car, by plane, by boat and also by railway, which is important from Narvik to Kiruna and so on into the international network. The interpellant also raised questions about the railways from Bodø/Fauske and further north. My view is crystal clear in this way: it should not be a priority to build that railway, nor should it be a priority to design what it might cost. The Nordlys newspaper had some years ago found out about the first investigation in this way. It was probably from the end of the 1800s. It was then put in a drawer, and I noticed that no major attempt was made later to bring it forward. There is no basis for building that path, either for business or for the population. The most important thing is to use the means you want to use for transportation, on the road, at port and at airport, and of course also to rust up the routes you already have in the north. It's very important. There is a bit of touching concern from the representative Knag Fylkesnes for some of these industries. Mineral industry has been developed. I do not know that SV is exactly the major champion of the mineral industry in North Norway, nor for the petroleum industry and the farming industry, nor for increased growth in the farming industry. So you have such a concern that you don't get the products you're actually against, I think it's a special angle to the debate. But I'm recording that it's here, and I'm taking it with me. I just have to show that when we dealt with the expansion of the Snow White field, there were SV representatives who linked themselves up there – towards the Snow White Development. Go to Hammerfest and see today! Look at the growth that has been in Hammerfest and throughout Finnmark of an expansion that has benefited both the continent and the whole nation. There may be a need in the future to build rail from the east to the west, from Finland or from Sweden — perhaps once in the future also from Russia — towards Norway if there are minerals to be transported and Norwegian ports to be used. There might be a possibility in the future. It has been investigated, inter alia: from Finland to Storfjord in Troms. But then it's business that has to define those needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2075	I thank the interpellant for raising the question of infrastructure in the north. It's important that we also focus on that, because North Norway has great nutritional potential in the future. It shows all the indexes that we as representatives get mail on. We record it through the business we meet, and we also hear about it in other contexts. So the possibilities are there. Infrastructure is required to support the efforts being made and the efforts being made. In the current national transport plan, Nord Norway increased its share. I think that it is now primarily about following up this in a good way. It is also about the forward-looking process towards the roll-out of the transport plan: to ensure that both a share is given to North Norway, which builds up during the economic effort, and to follow up what is already going on. The E6 through the four northernmost states was given great importance because the four northernmost states agreed on it. It was agreed that it was one of the main priorities of the four-year period into which it was addressed. This has led us, among other things, to: has been given the Hålogalandsbrua, which is now being built, and which came faster than many thought was possible, if you go back only a few years in time. Ofotbanen is important. It is also a clear commitment. What we see in road-rail connections is that you've got a natural node in Narvik. You drive the fish into Narvik and you send a good part of it on the track. Good, natural nodes are incredibly important. I believe – like several of the previous speakers – that the road will be important in North Norway in the future. It's a long way: when I drive out on the E6 from my home region south-east on Helgeland, it's 3.5 miles shorter to Tromsø than to Oslo, and it's further to the churches than it is to Kristiansand. So there's large distances there's talk about. Road is important for both E6 and the urban and county roads. You get to build this in a good way, so you have a network that connects. But no less important is the construction of the routes you have: the Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen. Ofotbanen I have mentioned. It gets a lift. It's very important. The next point there is to get a double track. Then we have to make sure that the Nordlandsban doesn't fall due, but that you put a bet on it. It is important to remember what was in the national transport plan, a draft selection of electrification of the long freight lines. We have expectations of being followed up. Ports are important. It is then required to invest. You have to think a little bit about how wise it is to invest in port. I heard the Council of State mention, among other things: Tromsø and Narvik. It's important. Then I also think that there may be some places in Finnmark and other places in Northernland where it is important to get invested in the port – to make it stick together. My point is that in North Norway – perhaps in front of many other regions – we depend on all the transport sources to get the country to hang in jumps, both road, rail, ports and airports. With the distances that we have, this has to be sewn together in a sensible way. This is important that we take care of the future, both on the basis of the priorities we are doing now, and not least when we are going to roll the transport plan in a short time. So I'm not going to rule out that it's time to think North Norway once in the future. There may be arguments that can speak for it in the future, but in the first few years to come, I think the most important thing is to focus on what is now in the transport plan for both E6, E10, Ofotbanen, Nordlandsbanen, E8 and the road sections from Finnmark to Russia and from Finnmark/Troms to Finland. I think that if we can solve this, in addition to taking further steps to bet on ports, we're well on track with even more to be able to use North Norway as a nutrient region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2101	I would like to thank you for a fine debate, which is probably the beginning of a process around the discussion about how we can get the necessary promise for infrastructure in North Norway. Some people here think there's a contradiction between rail and road. I would probably believe that the Minister for Transport agrees with me when I claim that road is good for its purposes, and that the railway is good for others. It's not all the things that the railway can handle. That's precisely why in this debate I'm raising the question about the railway. Much has happened in recent years. We've discovered that the potential in North Norway is greater than we've believed. How – and nobody in this debate has been able to explain me – will one be able to transport one million tons of seafood from Tromsø to Narvik on behalf of today? Even today, traffic safety and taxation on these roads are too high by 140 000 tonnes, i.e. almost 80 times more fish and seafood on the same way down to Narvik. No one in this room has been able to say that pedestal is to handle the amount of cargo. Similar liabilities within other areas, whether LNG or mineral, etc. Now, in Northern Norway, we are facing a completely new situation that requires a completely different discussion of what infrastructure we need in our part of the country. Then the question is: shall a continued discussion as before, and say: road, road, road, or shall we try to say road to it, railway to it, etc. It's only when we take inwards the new situation North Norway is in. Without a lift, without the great promise in the way we think about infrastructure in North Norway, North Norway will not trigger the potential of the continent for the region itself and for the nation of Norway in general. I'm afraid that in this discussion, the Minister of Transport, we don't take it seriously when he says that the railway must be a little ahead of time. Taking inward the new situation, one will open up to discuss it today, so one by one can start building the railway. So finally to the Progress Party. The representative of Korsberg believes that SV has our objections. No, the point is that the Progress Party has only wanted to make North Norway a part of the country that is for oil, gas and minerals, and where other industries are to be underestimated. In SV we want a balanced approach to this. We want an industrial development. We don't want a development where North Norway is just a country where all the values are taken out of the continent, but values are created there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2114	Let me also thank you for the debate, and at the same time let me clarify some obvious misunderstandings. As a FrP, I've been sitting on the Stortinget for eight years. I have fought to let Alcoa consider building an aluminium mill in Finnmark. It's about realising some of the values that lie there, through gas and through minerals. The previous government said no, including SV. You wouldn't realize the values in the county because it could create CO2 emissions. Then it was better if the minerals and the gas were sent to France to make a melting plant there. So that particular criticism, I think, is historyless. It is true that Nord-Norway has been discussing for a long time, but I also find that the previous government did not mention Nord-Norway in one word in its national transport plan. One blames for the fact that it is today's government document, so yes, we have to do a lot and everything in the national transport plan because we ourselves were for it – but it was not we who failed to enter the North Norway Railway into the government document – it was the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party that did. I believe that when you want to prioritize scarce resources, we need to use them where they get the most benefit. For me, there is no doubt that to get the most out of it today in North Norway, in a national sense, it's about upgrading the Nordlandsbahn, and it's about upgrading the Ofotban. It's the distance that makes the greatest use of it. In addition, the potential of Rana Gruber and Dunderlandsbanen is important. If you manage to use 30 tons of wagons instead of 24 tons of wagons, you get a percentage increase that is completely insane in the case of transported goods. I have mentioned all the road sections where this government has already either accelerated or started work, and I can also recall that many of the road sections, both E6 Helgeland North, the Bodø package, the Harstad package and Alta, have become bomb-free or have been reduced as a result of government change. That again means that there is more capital left in North Norway to invest in business rather than dragging it in to finance the roads they're running on. It's for the benefit of North Norway. We have done what the Workers' Party in Bodø would not want, namely to consider moving the runway – precisely because it can strengthen Bodø as a city and aviation. So we have accelerated the work of a new airport in Tromsø by three years. They're working on extending the runway in Kirkenes. There are new opportunities for the location of aerodromes in Hammerfest and Lofoten. It's working on the Polar Circle. Then I also recommend some of those who are very concerned about what is allegedly in the national transport plan, actually to read it. The fact that we are now reducing the maintenance run on both road and rail is not what was planned in the national transport plan. In the national transport plan, the maintenance allowance should continue to grow over this four-year period. I recommend someone to show me the quote that I have read it wrong. Until then, I would say that there are others who have read it incorrectly. I note that the parties that now believe that an NTP should have looked at new road sections and routes, at the same time have made suggestions in this room that now so much traffic is happening that we have to deliver the NTP back to Stortinget for new treatment because there is too much happening. I'd rather take that as a honorary word for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2137	Then there's case no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2143	The size is then ready to go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2151	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament. 3, from Abid Q. Raja on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, is a motion of censure. The President will first address this proposal to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Minister of Justice and Defence Anders Anundsen has failed to comply with the obligation to provide information through the information he has provided to the Stortinget concerning the transmission of long-term children. Minister of Justice and Defence Anders Anundsen does not have the confidence of the Stortinget.’ In line with the tradition of dealing with mistrust proposals in Stortinget, there will be petitions on roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 13 from Oslo. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes. Those who vote against the proposal answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2187	No representatives were absent. It shall then be referred to the other proposals made under case No. 1 and it is usually worted using the worting buttons in the seats of the representatives. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is very serious and highly critical that Minister of Justice and Defence Anders Anundsen has not provided comprehensive information to the Stortinget on the issue of the sending of long-term asylum children.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have notified that they subsidly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2207	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is highly critical that Minister of Justice and Defence Anders Anundsen did not provide comprehensive information to the Stortinget and did not ensure that the notified policy change was followed, in the case of the sending of long-term asylum children.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will support the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2234	We are then going to deal with case No. 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2237	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2279	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2288	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2354	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2363	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-19.ana.ud1785e2405	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
