ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e55	The representative Per Rune Henriksen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Else-May Botten as from 9 December and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the commodity Tove Lise Torve is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tove Lise Torve is present and will take the seat. The representative of Une Aina Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e75	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of myself to ensure good animal welfare in Norwegian chicken production.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e80	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. As the Storting did not deal with the position on the 2016 national budget and the draft government budget for 2016 before Thursday 3 December, it is clear that it is not possible for the Stortinget to examine the budget positions of the technical committees by the deadline of 15 December. The President will therefore propose that the Storting should depart from the provisions of Section 43, sixth paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, that the budgetary positions of the Scientific Committees be finalised by 15 December at the latest. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1, 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e128	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections, so as to deal first with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge, Framework 2 and then with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Culture, Framework 3. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that parts 1 and 2 of the debate give rise to a change of lines of up to four lines with replies after the main speakers of the political groups and six lines with replies after members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e143	– Don't envy our oil, envy our women. The statement is from the former Minister of Finance and Good Heathmarking Sigbjørn Johnsen. Sigbjørn Johnsen knew what he was talking about. The high professional participation of Norwegian women is much more valuable than our oil wealth. Unfortunately, we now have a government that is not concerned about it. We have a finance minister who does not understand the crucial role of women in our welfare development and the country's income base. We have a prime minister who says that the reason she has 70 pst. men in their own government apparatus – yes actually 100 pst. in the Ministry of Justice – is that she has picked the best. And we have an equality minister who, on behalf of the government, has had to present an equality message that will not lead to more equality. A central pillar of the Norwegian model, one of the main causes of our prosperity, that we are a society of small differences and a great deal of equivalency, is that we have pursued offensive equality policies. It has led Norway to the top of the world’s most equalized countries. This did not come of itself. We became the country of equality because we realized that not only is it the right thing to do for a civilized society, but it pays off. And we went to work systematically. Governments of the Workers' Party built over decades of structures to ensure equal opportunities for women and men. Through welfare schemes, we got women out into work, which in turn gave us opportunities for increased well-being. We realized that if everyone is to be equal and experience the same opportunities in the face of the education system, the working life or family care, it is sometimes necessary to compensate for basic disadvantages. Gender quota and Dad's quota are examples of that. It's worked. The governments of the Workers' Party recognized that equality is a political responsibility, as are the national roads, pension systems or child protection, and not a personal responsibility you provide for yourself in tough negotiations around the kitchen table or at the boss's desk, and must thank yourself if you are short – as the government parties also privatise the responsibility for equality. That is why we have pursued an offensive gender equality policy where the right-hand side has consistently opposed, but has sometimes come after and accepted some measures, but backwards and very reluctantly. For two years we waited for the government to present its entire equality policy for discussion to the Stortinget. When the message came, it contained no equality policy. It was a message with fine copies of analyses from the Red-Green Equality message, which the government drew, a message full of descriptions of challenges, but the more strange it is that it is totally bare for actions that will do something to solve these challenges and take us further, and a message that will not lead to more equality. The government's real equality policy is easy to see outside the message. It shall be entered each day, shall be adopted in this Chamber and shall appear in that budget. The overall policy restores equality and gives less freedom to more women and men. Cut in the paper commission means less freedom to father and mother. Similarly, increased cash support, longer nursery cows, higher prices, cut back on part-time work and new work environment laws that hit women’s homes the hardest. And in this budget that we are going to adopt today, we presented the same week as the gender equality message, which points to the fact that a lot of work is done, so you allow yourself to cut off the gender equality device that we have and that needs a strengthening. The equality ombudsman, the equality centres, the LHBT allocation and the equality pot are actually cut. Part-time millions at the Ministry of Labour are also gone this year. Equality does not come of itself. And when they, like every day, live where people live, where people live their lives, in the municipalities, in the schools, in kindergartens and in the workplaces, those who work for increased equality in practice, who every day advise people on their rights, on employers' duties, on courses of teachers and kindergarten staff, and who act as guardians of corruption and government – when they get less room for action, it becomes less activity, and less, not more, equality in practice. We in the Workers' Party want to move on. We're going to show it in this budget, and we're going to show it when we respond to the government's equality message. We grant more to those who make gender equality – the gender equality Ombudsman, the gender equality centres, the LHBT actors and the general equality pot. We're proposing again increased dad's quota. We show that we will continue every day in our entire policy in this room. Equality is a guide for the Workers' Party, and it does not come about by itself. The state budget we are dealing with parts of today is a budget that neither meets the challenges it is now facing, nor meets what is really the needs of people. In the area by region, the government is building down Community solutions that have helped make us one of the world's best and most equal countries. One of the biggest downhills of this government must be the match between the child hail lifts they promised before the election, and the government actually delivers. With the 2002 kindergarten agreement, there was a historic expansion of kindergartens. The maximum price was introduced, and the statutory entitlement to kindergarten space for 1-year-olds was introduced. The quality improvement work was started. If we had been in government, we would have taken the next step in 2014 and introduced two babysittings. I would venture the claim that the voters who listened to the representative Linda Hofstad Helleland or today's Minister of Knowledge before the elections in debates on kindergartens, or actually read the Right's programme – on page 10, fourth bullet point, where they say that the municipalities should facilitate continuous admission – were quite surprised when the government quite immediately stopped the introduction of two admissions and cut the number of kindergartens in the first budget. The government says that they are betting on kindergartens, but for the first time since the kindergarten agreement, we see a recorded decrease in the number of children in kindergarten, with 700 fewer children from 2013 to 2014. The fact that there are fewer children in the relevant year schools must be a poor comfort to the Council of State, but to the little help of the now 8,300 children registered for various reasons in the line of the Education Directorate. So the government has run from its promises to throw away the so-called date hysteria and introduce a continuous recording. It was intended for election and opposition. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has received support for its proposal on free core time for three-year-olds, following pressure from the Left and Christian People's Party in the conciliation. We add up to 2 000 more kindergartens than the government and strengthen the rights to admission for everyone born before 31 December, as mentioned. Together with a more robust local economy, it is a right step for families with children and a completely different line from the one the government is running. We want more freedom for more. Therefore, we also strengthen child protection, both for single minors and with the designation of positions in municipal child protection. We strengthen the work against child poverty and for volunteering. It is absolutely necessary in the time before us, with the strengthening of Community solutions for those who need it the most, rather than tax cuts for those who do not need it. It is therefore also a natural priority for the Workers' Party. Finally, I would like to address the Labour Party's proposal, with the exception of proposal No. 11, as there is a vote over during the treatment of the financial position earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e173	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e178	The representative of the Trettebergstien used a lot of his articles to talk about non-discrimination and the value of non-discrimination. In this respect, it is a little surprising that in the case of those working with children and young people in the various areas, equal treatment is not so important. It is quite concrete in the case of kindergarten, where the Workers' Party and the Trettebergstüen believe that the children who go to one of the private kindergartens should not receive as much of the public funds for the operation of their kindergartens as those who go to municipal kindergartens. What are the reasons why it is right for the Workers' Party to treat these children differently and that these children should not have the same basis for a good kindergarten as those in public kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e183	Here, the representative Harberg is totally wrong. The working party, unlike the government, is concerned with good quality and non-discrimination in quality and offers in public and private kindergartens. What the government does in this budget is to increase the percentage of funding for private kindergartens up to 100 without taking advantage of the opportunity to demand equal quality and equal offers. That is, private kindergartens are going to be compensated for expenses they really don't have, as we know that many of these kindergartens even over have 15 pst. lower expenditure than municipal expenditure. What we have asked for, and said, is that we support non-discrimination in terms of funding, but only when the municipalities are given equal rights of service and content, so that the children in the municipal kindergartens and in the private kindergartens experience strictly actually going to kindergartens that offer the same offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e188	It is possible that the Trettebergstuen has its own law that we do not know about, but it is the same law that applies to both public and private kindergartens. Here it is referred to as if they have completely different assumptions for operating their business. That's not the case. It's exactly the same requirements that apply to quality, content, plans and staff, so how it can suddenly be so very different, I think both the Storting and others need an explanation for. It is, no matter what the Trettebergstuen answers, so the Workers' Party believes that less money should be given to the private kindergartens for the operation of the places. How to enhance quality and content, if any, is a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e193	The working party is committed to making best use of public money. We're concerned that kindergartens will be refunded the expenses they actually have. When we know that private kindergartens evenly over, much because of staff costs, have 15 pst. lower costs than the municipal costs, it would be wrong for them to receive the same operating grant. And it's not right, as the representative Harberg says, that they are subject to the same rules on opening hours, quality and content. Municipalities do not have the same opportunity to make demands about these things related to the private ones as to the municipal ones. The government could sort this out. If the government had been concerned with increasing the quality of the nursery, this chance would have been used to give municipalities the opportunity to make these demands, and not least, to create a system that reimbursed the expenses actually incurred by kindergartens, rather than to cash hundreds of millions of public dollars into a system that allows some private actors to take this out in return instead of spending it on the contents of the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e198	Now, the representative Tritenbergstien spent most of his post on equality, and equality is important, but I want to angle my question towards integration, which is also very important, but on which not so much time was spent. The representative of Hadia Tajik has had an outrage about banning hijab in the children's ball, which is what the Progress Party is for. But is this a proposal that the whole working party is behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e203	The debate on the use of religious headgear in public space is a difficult debate — a debate that raises many dilemmas. But it is a debate that the Labour Party is taking. As the representative of Reiertsen knows, the Workers' Party is opposed to the use of the type of covered headgear in e.g. judges and police professionals, because we believe that covering up is incompatible with having a role to play in exercising power on behalf of the public. When it comes to the debate that our Vice-Chairman has been going on, it's about whether young schoolchildren should be able to cover up or dress up, regardless of whether it's a hijab or a mini-circuit or what it is, because the reason behind the play is about the sexualization of young children. I think everyone should be concerned about preventing that. Whether there's a law ban on hijab in school that solves it, or whether the principals are going to have the opportunity and the support to deal with it in the individual school, as our vice president has actually mentioned, we're going to look at that, but this is a necessary debate that's about much more than just hirab. It's about little kids who can't choose for themselves having to be protected by adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e208	I am very pleased, for my part, that the representative Trettebergstien spent so much time in his article on what has to do with equality and equality policy, because it is an important area. We like to think of ourselves that we live in the world's most equal countries. Much is good, but I think we can agree that these are also challenges. In our alternative budget, we proposed an increase of 1 million. kr to facilitate better tripartite cooperation and prepare an equal pay pot. Does the Labour Party see the need for such an equal pay pot? And can the Workers' Party also say something about what that party considers to be the greatest challenges of equality in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e216	The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are bringing together rings about the equality apparatus. That's what happened. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party, together with us, has secured a majority for an increase in many of the equality areas we have in the budget. The equality did not come of itself, as I said in my article. It is about making it possible to combine work and family life through welfare schemes such as papyri, a decent work environment law, and, in particular, the construction of kindergartens have made working life equal and given women and men equal opportunities. These are all measures and measures that the government has steadily weakened and trusted in the last two years. I'm sorry. This is also about the fact that they are weakening the possibility of actually achieving equal pay. If you want equal pay, as the representative calls for, unfortunately it does not keep a pot of 1 million. kr in a State budget. One has to listen to the social partners say that will have an effect, and it is precisely a work environment law with a good working time regime, it is a equal distribution of paperwork, and it is measures against part-time work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e223	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e226	This year's budget has rightly come in the shadow of people fleeing from war and poverty. They knock on Europe's doors, they knock on ours. There come women and men alone, families and children. Someone will be allowed to stay, others will probably have to go home again. This year’s budget has the refugee crisis as a backbone, and it makes it even more important that we continue to give priority to children and families in need of help – family protection, child protection, the fight against violence in close relationships, increased quality of our kindergartens and work against discrimination and equal value, to mention some of the themes in this budget. The family is our closest little community. That's why we're so vulnerable when what's supposed to be safe, suddenly becomes unsafe: when mom and dad decide to leave each other, if someone beats or is bad – or if someone gets more concerned with intoxication than with those around them. There's no easy solution to help a family that doesn't work. Family protection has been significantly strengthened in the last budgets, including this, and further through the conciliation process. It is important to work prevention to prevent conflicts or to end them. We have a special responsibility for children to be heard. This is clarified in the Children’s Act, the Children’s Convention and the Constitution. Therefore, it is important that extra funds are provided, so that more children are offered a conversation in connection with their parents’ breakup. Kids don't stand out from their parents, they're just as happy with Mom and Dad, and they're hurting that their parents are forgetting this in a tough divorce period. Listening to their children often causes the most angry parent to get together and remember the most important thing – and it's not who cheated on who, it's that the children love both parents equally and need them to listen more than the arguments. Priority should be given to measures to prevent violence and abuse. Several action plans have been developed in these areas – ‘against violence in close relationships’ and ‘to combat sexual abuse against children and young people’. It is important to make plans as the instruments to be used span several budget chapters and departments. There is also agreement on a stepping-up plan in this area. Children who are subjected to violence need good help in retrospect, so that they can live good children's and adults' lives. The earmarking of funds for the operation of centres for children at risk of violence is therefore an important measure. High-quality child protection can mean life or death for those children and families who need help. More children we meet say we were late. More parents we meet, say that we might not have come anyway. But in any case, the quality of the decisions is crucial to trust. There is a lot of good work in child protection, but we must always strive to get better. That's why it's good that a sample is now being set up that looks at the new Child Protection Act, that we should look at the structure of child protection, in particular to move more of the services closer to the users, that is to say to the municipality – and in that context, we are waiting for the results of the tests that are now to be done in Kommune-Norge – that we are working on a new foster home message, and that we agree on how the future competence should be in the field of child protection. For the Right, opportunities are for anyone more than one slogan. In order to give people opportunities, they must have equal rights and rights must be implemented. It is therefore important that we now present a gender equality message that sets out the main challenges in gender equality and makes proposals for action. We have also begun work on a new law on discrimination. The law is already very fragmented, and it is difficult to find out about it. A common law will address this and put the spotlight on the fight against discrimination. I'm beginning to approach the end of the post and will end with a perspective that I think is very important that we keep through our work, namely children's rights and children's right to be heard. I myself have received very good feedback from children and young people, and they like to put our matters in a slightly different perspective than what we adults see. A while ago, I was fortunate enough to attend a seminar on legal certainty and quality in child protection. There were many exciting contributions, and during the debate the level of conflict became high. One might be inclined to characterize it as a little bit of squabbling. Well, in the middle of this, there are some of the kids and the kids who themselves have known child protection on the body, who take the word and say something like that they could probably talk out and fill the papers with stories about the poor child protection every single day, but they had chosen the more constructive way of trying to use their experiences to make child protection better, not just to criticize. I hope that the children and the young people will be a little proud of what we are adopting today, if not entirely in agreement. And with this, I still want us to have a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e261	In the budget setting, the Right and Advance Party write that they have three main initiatives in the kindergarten field. One is the investment in several kindergartens. The result of the efforts in 2014 was a decrease in the number of children of 700. For the first time in many years we got a year with fewer children in kindergarten. Last year, it was also expressed in the budget position that one out of three main initiatives was multiple kindergartens. Either the time has to be in order to admit that the policy has failed completely, or the time has to speak for change either in the goal or in the policy. Is the representative barrels satisfied with the efforts of the government in the development of more kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e270	The government says we're going to make sure that children are allowed to go to kindergarten. So if you look at our budgets in 2015 and 2016, there are 3,400 new children's seats added. When you say decrease in the number of children, it must be said that there is actually a decrease in the number of children in Norway as well. So the percentage of children who go to kindergarten is still the same. In addition to looking at the number of children in kindergarten, we also look at the quality of the content that is there. There has never been any more focus on quality in kindergarten than now, and there has never been more money to bet on quality in kindergarten than now. We're also making arrangements for more parents who don't have the money to get help so that children are allowed to go to kindergarten, and we're betting on free core time now also for three-year-olds as well as four- and five-year-olds. So yes, I'm satisfied with our bet on kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e281	The representative indicates that there are fewer children, but we're not figuring out the numbers we're referring to here. There are still kids waiting in kindergarten, so the decline is 700 with the Advance Party and the Right in government. Would it have been more important, in the opinion of the representative, to talk about quality rather than boasting that a rate in several kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e288	I say a little bit like Ole Brumm: I think it's important to do both. We bet in several kindergartens, but the nursery places are built in the municipalities, so it is important that the municipalities follow up what the government says. All of us who have been both municipal politicians and bigots politicians know that. But betting on quality, starting to think about the contents of kindergarten as well, has been a bit absent. We've been very busy talking about the number of places, not so much about the content. Therefore, it is important that we now set standards, and it is important that we equate children who go to public kindergartens and children who go to private kindergartens. So we're doing a lot of good work in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e295	I just want to ask a slightly open question to the representative barrels. It's also about equality, because with the small cuts we've seen in the equality field, you can almost get the impression that the government thinks we've reached the goal of full equality in Norway. But I do not think that the representative barrels would have agreed. Therefore, I would just like to ask quite openly: in what area does the representative barrels think that we still have challenges in terms of equality between men and women?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e300	I think that it might be nice to take a look at the gender equality message, which has just been presented. It specifies five different areas, including: violence in close relationships, where we know that although it is so that even men are beaten and feel unsafe at home, more women are involved. Working with the action plans that we have also agreed on, on violence in close relationships, I think is very important. So it also has something to do with our rights. We know that when we women go on maternity leave, we tend to fall a little behind in terms of wage growth – and that is not allowed. But we have to have an instrument that actually sets requirements behind the words, and that is why I am very pleased that the Council of State has said that she should review that instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e307	I want to ask one -- unlike the previous replicator -- very closed questions, a very concrete question. There's a big difference between private and public kindergartens. Telemark research has looked at this. There are differences in pay, in pensions, in working conditions – there are worse conditions in the private sector than in the public sector. There's less waxiness, and there's fewer educators in the private sector. Then the government will equal the private and the public kindergartens, without making demands on wages, pensions, working conditions, immaturity, staffing, etc., without incentivizing it to be reduced. Can the representative guarantee that all the hundreds of millions to be set aside for this will go to a better provision for the children, or will this only make the kindergarten bar and Right-Member Eidissen even richer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e319	It's a bit surrealistic -- I just delivered my daughter to a private kindergarten, and I can't quite recognize myself in the description to the representative. It is said that the right believes that it is important to equalise private and public kindergartens. In addition, private kindergartens are subject to the same quality requirements as public kindergartens. There are also several municipalities, including: My own, who work very well at coordinating operations, both at the public and at the private sector, and who are clearly able to achieve overall operation even if you have different drivers in this area. As I said, neither I nor the parents who respond to the user survey agree with the representative that there is a lower quality in private kindergartens, and we believe it is right to equalise the children – those who go to public kindergartens, and those who go to private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e328	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e331	Work, activity and conversion must be the focus when we are about to round a new year, also in the area that we are debating today. It's going to be a new year, where what we're behind has given the country great challenges, challenges neither one can do nor could have done so much with them. But the government has been in the forefront of these challenges, even though the opposition has spoken up and down in thought of too little and too late. At the same time, when you read the budget in our area, there is a great deal of unity across the parties, which is very happy, happy with all the challenges children, young people and parents face in today's Norway. It's serious that weighs many families, which we're going to take over, either one has had good years in oil and is unemployed, or one is a new family that comes to Norway, and that's going on in the municipalities and becomes part of our society. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government has presented a budget that addresses all these challenges. But we have to be clear that changes are happening all the time. The government also helps to understand that when unfulfilled things happen in our society, you can deliver. I'm referring here to the supplementary number. For the Progress Party, children and families are very important. That's why we're very happy that an emphasis family monthly, from cradle to grave. The biggest challenge in the world is the great immigration and the flow of refugees to Norway. Here are many single minors and families with children. The permissions associated with the additional number indicate the costs involved. But the most important thing remains: the fact that these children and families are taken care of further if they are granted their applications is the greatest and most important work after the additional number has been adopted. It is now announced that a municipality will grow up in, housing, Norwegian education and health services. It is now the way forward for all children to start to get an education and be able to manage themselves in their adult life. These and others do not always get the life that is desirable. That's why it's good that we have a government that sees and knows what different life challenges can lead to. That's why the government is raising child poverty. A priority is family protection, child protection and good social measures to help those who do not grow up in an A4 life, where even the simplest is not of course. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left prioritise kindergartens, several kindergartens, the Knowledge Lift and opportunities for more children to go to kindergarten. This is done with a national minimum of reduced parental pay, so that more people can benefit from kindergarten. Free core time, which is now also to include three-year-olds, is an important incentive for more people to use kindergarten. Not least this is important for integration. The smallest are those who learn Norwegian the fastest, at best for themselves and the family. We know that today's high unemployment situation concerns many children. Even if parents become unemployed, the emotional and economic challenges have consequences for the family. It is important to take care of it over many budgets, not just in what we are dealing with here today. That is why it is good that the budget in our area shows this. We increase the capacity of family protection offices, increase the birth and adoption support, strengthen the system against child poverty, and strengthen health care and municipal child protection. We also increase efforts at parental support measures in general in municipalities. Exposed first-time parents are also noted. We're also giving this group extra momentum. But just as important as the extra charge, it's that the tips are used correctly, and you get the help you need at the right time. That's why it's important that you evaluate different services evenly. Sometimes it makes sense to go some rounds when it comes to proper competence in the right place. Prevention within both child protection and family protection must be highly focused. One should, at the longest, avoid dramatic changes for families without one having tried out measures in the home. But if the situation is serious, one of course has to act. The party of progress is concerned with the best of the child, and one sees that even if there has been a positive development in the case of children being heard after a break for parents, one should and should do everything possible to ensure that every child is given his or her voice when it comes to his or her own situation when parents choose to leave each other. That's why it's very important that you get qualified brokers who can talk to children. This is why the government is increasing that position of empowerment. Good conversations and interactions with children in the different challenges they face are and should be important. The Progress Party is pleased that a set of focus on choice and abuse, and that a permissions extra means to this important work. The Party of Progress and Government also looked at means of gender equality and discrimination, this to finance the operation of the established core gender equality environment. I also refer to the gender equality message, which will be treated later in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e370	Finally, a little mention was made in the article about gender equality in Norway. It is usually an honor and honor for the equality country of which most political parties are sung in the glory of. My question to the representative Laila Marie Reiertsen is what she thinks are the three main measures in the equality communication, which her council has come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e377	Now we are going to deal with gender equality messages later – in the spring – but it is very important that we address the five areas in the gender equality message and look at what one can do further. First of all, we have made a concrete proposal when it comes to girls and technology. We focus on power in close relationships, and in the budget that we are discussing today, we have also set up more than 13.1 million. to measures and projects to promote gender equality. So it'll probably come out more of a gender equality message that's going up to spring, where we might also get more concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e382	I thank you for the answer – a more concrete answer than what we tend to get from the Progress Party. As I said earlier, the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen has said that equality does not come about by itself, so action needs to be promoted that will allow us to be equality country no. one. Can the representative mention any results of equality which have come without a political decision, wish or initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e389	A lot of what has been presented in the Storing over the years has helped us to experience that each of us has a responsibility in society to promote good equality. And it is clear that many things, both in terms of pregnancy, parental death and parental leave, which are important moments, have helped to ensure that women have been able to be more in the workplace, which is very important, and which will be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e394	In the committee’s position, the Labour Party and the Christian People’s Party alone are on a note, referring to the important enforcement and driving role of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman in gender equality work, and in which we believe that we have major gender equality challenges in Norwegian society, that there is a long way to go for women and men to have the same opportunities, and that there is still a need for offensive gender equality policies to achieve change. Does the representative, Mr Reiertsen, agree with the contents of this comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e401	The content of the note seems to me to be positive given that it doesn't feel like equality today. But at the same time, I would like to remind the representative that we became some members of the Christian People's Party to increase the incentive for gender equality centres, which can also be a positive contribution. But I want to say that as important as all of these heads that we're taking, the interaction that we as individuals can engage in in the gender equality debate, and it's as important to me as a woman, as a mother, as an employee, as an employer, as a whole the lack of childcare, to school, to education. The fact that we agree to support whether the choices everyone takes, both boys and girls, further, is important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e408	I didn't get a good answer from Mette Tønder, so I'm going to move on to the other blue party, and the Progress Party is known for having clear answers. So I repeat, the representative can guarantee that the 360 million. kr a user to equalise public and private kindergartens, go to the children and not in the pockets of kindergarten barons such as Right-Member Eidissen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e416	I myself have had my children in a private kindergarten and have been very happy with it. The feedback in municipalities I know is that there are good results both in the private sector and in the public sector. I think the road should go on, and to me it doesn't really matter whether they're private or public. We don't have to forget that we went with SV to build up the kindergarten sector that time, so thank you for the private ones we can sit there today with that solution, with both private and public, and that there are enough kindergartens not least.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e421	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e424	The 2016 budget for the family sector is, to a small extent, a budget with major upheavals. But the Christian People's Party believes it is important that family protection budgets for 2016 are higher than for 2015. We are concerned that growth should go to more therapists in the offices and to more family protection in practice. The budgets of child protection are also increasing from this year to next year. Also, the agreement between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party includes a strengthening of municipal child protection by another 30 million. kr in addition to a strengthening of the 5 million foster home recruitment appropriations. kr. We know that kids are in line for a home. In August, 406 children were in foster homes, and I expect the numbers to be even higher now. Job No one must be to find a home for all. Children need a home. They need care and love. If the growth in the budget is big enough to cover the big problems we're facing, nobody knows. It is extra challenging when we know that children come to the country who will need good help also from child protection. I expect the government to follow up on whether the budget is at a sound level and possibly come back to Stortinget if necessary. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left and the government parties ensures an increase in some items that are particularly important in the fight against child poverty. The child poverty benefit scheme is increased by 15 million. NOK, including SEK 3 million. kr for increased support for Red Cross offers Holiday for all and 2 million. kr for extra supplements to the station of the Blue Cross and Barna. The lump sum at birth and adoption is increased to NOK 46 000. This is far from Christian People's Party's goal of 2 G, but it's a new step in the right direction. In our decision, a unanimous increase was made to ask the government to prepare proposals for a binding and comprehensive escalation plan against violence against children. Already in the 2016 budget, we are starting to escalate, even if it is in the forefront of the plan. We know the need is there. There are important contributions to the budget agreement on the justice and health framework, and within Framework 2, the increase in family protection is an important part of this. There are funds for the foundation Alternative to violence, which can extend its capacity, as well as the continuation of grants at the 2015 level. In addition, it has been decided that Alternatives to violence will be added to EUR 1.25 million. kr, so that they can extend their mandate in addition to the 2015 level. Christian People's Party is also pleased that the Stortinge decides that 15 million. kr is used for the operation of centres for children exposed to violence. Comparets 2 million. kr to the incest and rape centres is important to us, because we know that there is a need for state resources to enable increased operations and activities at these centres. It is important for the Christian People's Party that the Change Factory secures 4 million. on the health budget for work on mental health protection. And then it's important to clarify that of course this is going to add up to the 2 million. kr that the child protection professionals receive in annual support. It has been important for the Christian People's Party that equality centres maintain their business. We're happy to make the deal secure 2 million. extra to the centres in addition to the government's proposal. The 2015 budget agreement ensures free core time for four- and five-year-olds in low-income families. The 2016 agreement ensures an extension of the free core-time scheme in kindergartens to include three-year-olds in low-income families. It is very important that parents’ finances should not be a reason for children not being able to go to kindergarten. The Christian People's Party believes that it is family-friendly policy to facilitate that children who want kindergarten will get it when they need it. We are therefore pleased that the Stortinget has now adopted an instrument to ensure that several one-year-olds in 2016 place in kindergarten when they need it. So the government has now asked for proposals to move the date limit from 1 September to 1 November. The size has asked the government to submit proposals for amendments to the Kindergarten Act, so that children who reach one year of age by the end of October of the year in which they are applied for kindergarten are entitled to have their place in the Kindergarten from the age of one year at the latest, in accordance with this Act with regulations. Children born before 1 September will have a place by the end of August, as today, and we look forward to a proposal for treatment relatively quickly over the New Year, so that the change will come into force as early as 2016. We ask the Council of State to confirm that the work is started immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e447	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e450	Thanks to the representative Bekkewold for a good and interesting post. In November we got new numbers from Nav that show that fathers are taking off shorter leave now that the quota has been reduced from 14 to 10 weeks. Nav writes that they expect that that trend will only intensify towards the end of 2015. It clearly shows that our warnings against reducing the spring quota will lead to this very fact that fathers are taking out a smaller proportion, but it also shows how important it was that the Christian People's Party was involved in ensuring that the spring quota as such was not abolished on a proposal from the Right and the Advance Party. What does the Christian People's Party think about the evolution we now see in fathers' withdrawals from fatherhood? Is the Christian People's Party willing to look at measures to get more fathers to take out more of the parental leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e459	The Christian People's Party is not unaffected by the information we now get from Nav, which the representative quite rightly mentions. The trend is that fathers largely relate to the weeks they decide to be reserved for them and do not take advantage of the space they have to take out several weeks is serious. At the same time, I am very pleased that in the cooperation agreement we have said ten weeks. I think that if you had removed this entire reserved right to leave weeks, maybe the numbers would be even darker. This shows that we're not yet there that we can put it completely away. We have to continue to reserve weeks for both mother and father, but here I believe that what kind of measures to point to, we have to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e464	I thank you for your answer and I am pleased that the representative, Mr Becquerad, is so clear that the Christian People's Party still wants a federal quota that they see the need for it. We could all think of an ideal situation where there might not be a need for quota arrangements in the area of parental leave, but we've seen that every single time the father's quota has been extended, fathers' withdrawals have almost slavishly followed what has been the quota. And we also see the same tendency for now, as we've been told, that when the ratio of fathers decreases, it also weakens fathers' withdrawals. I want to challenge the representative Becrevold to be a little more clear about whether he is willing to look at measures when we are now probably going to see that this trend is only being reinforced, there are campaigns or calls, but it may also be possible to consider the possibility of in the long term perhaps increasing the spring quota from today's ten weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e471	I like to take part in campaigns, and I like to get involved in an attitude work that can lead to fathers taking out more weeks than just the ten measured. I fully agree that it turns out, and it seems that the weeks we decide here at Stortinget, are perceived as the weeks the father will take out – finished talking, almost. Here I also believe that it is equally important to be in good dialogue with the employer, because I think it is also an area that we need to look into. We have a cooperation agreement with the government now, where we have proposed ten weeks, so I don't want to see it as topical to increase it now, but other measures that can get fathers to take out even more weeks, I would like to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e478	In its setting, the Christian People's Party stresses that time with one another is an important value. The Christian People's Party also writes that the party will work to give families more time, flexibility and freedom of choice. Today, there are many families who organize so that Mom works part-time and Dad works overtime. It's a situation with little time for each other. That is why I wonder whether the representative Bekkevold sees a reduced normal working day, for example. a 6-hour day, could seem positive in the direction of Christian People's Party's visions of more time to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e483	Thank you very much for your question. The 6-hour day has not been on our agenda, and we have not taken a decision on it. That's something we have to get back to, and here we have to have a complete look at the whole labour market. We have to make sure that this is some of the things that can lead to more equality, but we have not taken a decision on the 6-hour day. This also has some economic consequences that we need to take into account. I don't think I can give any clearer answers to the question than what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e490	I look forward to good discussions with the Christian People's Party in the future about opportunities for joint work for reduced normal working days. I wonder what other structural measures the representative Bekkevold sees for himself to move towards a more equal society, working life and family life. I share a lot of the visions that were pulled up in the post, and I'm happy for every penny of the Christian People's Party and the Left has moved on in the budget. But if you allow yourself to raise your eyes: what does the Christian People's Party think are the most important structural steps that need to be taken to ensure a more equal society?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e496	We have pointed out in the budget some areas on which we believe it is important to focus. I believe it is important to strengthen the equality actors, not weaken them. I think it's important to look at the tool, because if it's the way to continue to discriminate in a workplace without any consequences, you have to look at whether the tool we have is too bad. We've put 1 million in the budget. kr to prepare an equal pay pot – that million is not an equal pay pot – because we see that there may be a need as a measure to create more equal work, to point out in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e503	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e506	The child and family policies of the Centre Party shall contribute to smoothing social differences and ensuring that all children have the right to good growth. Early work in the health centre, kindergarten and child protection needs to be given special priority in order to ensure a good start for all. Too many children in Norway experience poverty. We therefore need to take targeted measures to reduce child poverty. Such a measure is to maintain child-restraint, which is a good and universal scheme. This will smooth out the differences in the cost of living between families with children and others in society. The level of child benefit has been actually weighted over many years as a result of a lack of adjustment to price and wage growth. The Central Party proposes to adjust the amount of child benefit as of 1 October 2016. At the same time, we propose to reintroduce the Finnmark supplement and the swallowbard supplement and to increase the birth and adoption benefit to NOK 50000. We also propose a wage adjustment of the parental deduction for legitimate child care and care expenses, and an increase in the special deduction for single carers in addition to price and salary growth. The central party's tax policy has a clear priority for those who have low incomes for shorter or longer periods. Many families with children are in this category. A good child and family policy is also about facilitating good common arenas where everyone can participate. The centre party strongly strengthens the municipalities in our alternative budget, which includes: provides room for increased local bet on quality measures within the school, nursery and nursery. Free fruit and green in the base ball, one hour of physical activity every day in the school and increasing support for clay ball stays are important growth initiatives in our alternative state budget. We also propose 400 million. to a municipal mental health escalation plan in municipalities, with special emphasis on children and young people. The Central Party also strengthens the 20-million-dollar approach to child and youth action in 23 major urban communities. in addition to the Government's proposals. Disabled children are the most vulnerable groups in society. We're proposing a total of 20 million. in favour of measures for displaced children, to increase the capacity of children's homes to reduce the waiting time for children who are victims of serious crime, and to increase the staffing of public prosecutors, inter alia. as a result of new tasks related to children’s rights transferred from courts. We also give priority to increasing the rate of support for measures for single minor asylum seekers in the field of child protection from 80 to 90 pst. over municipal property. The number of people who come to Norway to seek asylum has increased. Among them are single minors and families of children. The centre party is proposing 350 million. D more for work with single minors, and approx. 1.4 B.C.E. to integration in addition to the government's proposals. Voluntary organisations are important in the integration process. At that time, local immigrant organisations and voluntary community activities are important. The aim of this scheme is to create meeting places and activities in local communities across different groups of the population. Measures shall be linked to the integration of people with a migrant background. Last year, the government changed the arrangement of this scheme, as the administration was moved from the county to 20 municipalities that have many immigrant backgrounds. The central party believes that integration work under the direction of voluntary organisations must be done in all municipalities, including in the other 408 municipalities, not only the 20 that last year took part in the scheme. We draw attention to a loose proposal that is distributed in the hall, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to follow up the obligation imposed on it to always assess the family or close networks of the child as possible foster home by taking care of the child.’ The background to the proposal is information and a challenge in that related and close networks are not systematically assessed by the Child Welfare Service and that members and members of its staff do not check whether the protection of children has been monitored and evaluated by the family and networks, as they have been required by law since 2004. I hope for a plurality for this proposal. Otherwise, the centre party will support all of the minority suggestions in the configuration. We will also support the loose proposal from SV, which has been distributed, to get a case to Stortinget on how quality, crew standards and educational standards should be followed up. I read in the proposition that in 2014 there was only 55 pst. by the ordinary day-care centres which complied with the norms. So it's a big job if this is going to be a reality in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e530	There is a great deal in the Central Party's draft budget in the family area in which the Left is merged. What is a never so small paradox and a problem is that the Central Party has aged its budget with revenues that are not only unrealistic, but that it is completely impossible to recover in 2016, among other things. 5 B.C.E. kr i tax on financial corporations. First, it is highly controversial professionally, and there is no fait accompli in any way about how to set it up. For there are others, it is unconditional that the company's residual tax will receive a first income for the following financial year, i.e. in 2017. So here's the question to the representative: what is the Central Party actually prioritizing these actions when they actually lack a minimum of 5 billion? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e535	Thank you very much for an important question from fiscal spokesman Terje Breivik. I can't go into exactly what is claimed. I think we've provided a credible budget. If it's claimed that we don't have containment for our 5 billion bets. kr, the representative Terje Breivik can claim it, I can't say anything else. Anyway, what we are discussing today are actions that we have been giving priority to every year, which we have prioritised in the budget for the last year: we are in favour of child welfare, we want universal arrangements, and a lot of this, like this. the proposal that we have distributed is not something that actually costs money. It goes on that we want a smooth distribution, and that we also want an integration work in all municipalities under the direction of voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e542	The President perceived that when the representative Kjersti Toppe referred to the proposal of the Central Party, she also took it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e545	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e550	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e553	We are going to go from financial policy to consumer policy, which was not mentioned in the statements of the representative, but which is very relevant. It's about Christmas, and for the third year in a row, we see a price war in the shops, where you can get some chosen Christmas goods for a reasonable money. If we compare with the EU average – I know it can be a small red cloth – Norwegian food prices are 69 pst. above the EU average. You have a few days to buy some cheap food. Then I see that the Center Party for the third year in a row goes out and calls this both unethical and ethically objectionable. I could imagine hearing the representative Toppe say a little bit about the way it is unethical that you see the possibility to buy some reasonable Christmas goods a few days up until Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e560	I don't know if it's important, but thank you for the question. I can't quite see the problem that we're going out and very critical of this price war, because this is dumping food, because the shops sell this with loss. If the Right believes that there should be a food policy, that it should be a consumer policy, that a product should be sold with a loss in order to give consumers some sort of short-lived pleasure, then it is not viable. It is not a consumer policy; it is not a food policy we want. And it has nothing to do with the EU, this is the dumping of prices just before Christmas. At least I have to say that buying peparkakes and red showers for NOK 1 and for NOK 3, is not exactly what we are fighting for. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e567	This shows a well-functioning market, and I wonder: does the Central Party realize that in the future there will be some regulation? So here all the joints in the chain, from the manufacturer via the processor and the carrier, have got what they should have, and it also seems that the food chains are doing relatively well. How is it possible to regulate this market in order to make food more expensive for consumers, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e573	We would have had a regulation of this where the consumer power could be stronger, but it will not be followed up by the government. Instead of answering what the representative asks about – we have a case on the health budget, the key-hòl system itself, which all the parties are a few about, but we also see the problem that the food chains are well away from the product in the key-hòl system because there is a price war on these healthy goods that we want people to choose to buy. The chains just pick them off because there's a price war and the shops don't make money on them. So it's clear that it's a problem for consumers, especially when there are healthy goods that are no longer in the shelves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e578	One thing that often turns out to be a discussion around is child-responsiveness. In the debate, there are those who call for the differentiation of child rights. In the discussion about child poverty, child welfare is also often promoted. What I'm going to ask the Center Party is: Does the Center Party share the Christian People's Party's view that child-responsiveness still has to be a universal system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e583	Yes, we share the Christian People’s Party’s view that child welfare should be a universal system. It has been our debates for many years, and is it still the case whether or not child protection should be differentiated, whether or not it should be tested, whether or not it should be taxed? I mean, there's a completely wrong way of thinking, because child-responsiveness comes as a kind of alternative to child-responsible taxes for families or families. You don't get tax relief for it, you get child welfare. When talking about needing and taxing something that is a compensation for not getting tax relief, it's a completely wrong way of thinking, and it turns out that child welfare, according to the researchers, has a smoothing effect between groups in society. The other injustice we get to go through the tax haven.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e590	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e593	The family policy of the Left assumes that the individual family should have great freedom to find the solutions that best suit them. Respect for different choices is important. If freedom is to be real, then one must also be free from hardship, poverty and inequality. The main priority of the Left in the family area is ours and is the fight against child poverty. The certainty that 80,000 young people grow up in poverty in Norway in 2015 is directly heartbreaking. Smoothing social differences and creating equal opportunities for all children can hardly be a priority. The left is very happy that the government shares such a vision. An important measure that we agreed on last year – free core time in the nursery for four- and five-year-olds from low-income families – is now being extended from New Year to three-year-olds as well, on a proposal from the Left in the budget negotiations. In the budget agreement, the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, has achieved a total increase of almost 300 million. measures to reduce child poverty and prevent work directed at children and young people. It's a big step in the right direction, and that of course those who have studied Left's original budget proposal are not enough – we suggested a package of almost 2.5 billion. kr. More preventive measures must be taken. For the left, early effort is central. We know that kindergartens are a very important institution for prevention. It is the place outside the family that is most important to ensure not least mental health in young people. It is also an important venue for discovering and helping children with different needs as early as possible. Hence, professional competence is entirely decisive, and there is little doubt that the Left is concerned that there are still many kindergartens lacking educational staff. Once again, it is very good that the government takes this seriously and initially proposes to strengthen the recruitment work, a reinforcement that the Left suggested allowing an additional 100 million. kr to. Without going through all the figures – when it comes to kindergartens, this by expanding the core time of three-year-olds, as I said, and more flexible childcare admissions, the Left originally proposed putting it to 31 December in the budget negotiations. So we were given the impression that we are now expanding by two months, until the end of October of that year we are looking for a nursery place. The licenses to kindergartens for 2015 and 2016 now provide room for the establishment of about 3,400 new places. One of the things that has been raised earlier in the debate is equality. With mine if not entirely new, so at least objective glasses, I would say that the draft budget for the Left in the field of equality is the most ambitious. We suggest that employers be completely exempted from sickness insurance during pregnancy, which is a very targeted measure and has a cost of just over 100 million. kr, abolish tax class 2, liquidate cash-stamped, strengthen targeted pay-as-you-go schemes to make it easier to employ immigrant women – to name something.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e608	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e611	The representative himself said that the Left has a much more offensive equality policy than the government parties have, and is following the Workers' Party in many areas. The Left and Christian People's Party was able to prevent the Progress Party and the Right from getting through to cut the entire father's quota, but we had a significant weakening. The left had to swallow the cash support, and in addition to this budget, the Right and Advance Party in the allocations to the Equality Ombudsman, to the Equality Centres, to the LHBT environment and to the rest of the equality device. The Left and Christian People's Party had to use its prestige to fight in again some of these cuts, but didn't get to everyone. When Horne presented the government's gender equality message on 9 October, representatives from the left went out and said that the message was so thin and contained so few measures that it could not be presented. What does the representative really think about the equality policy of the Right and the Progressive Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e616	The answer to that is indirect in what I now said from the Stortinget speaking chair. We've seen mine, as I said, objective glasses perhaps the most offensive equality policy in the house. When it comes to the federal quota, the representative of Trettebergstuen well knows that it is a result of a plurality consisting of the government party and the Christian People's Party – not the Left. Of course, we're going to use the gender equality message as a favorite opportunity to fight for Left's principal vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e621	Kindergarten is a very important prevention arena. I thought it was very good that the left negotiated into last year a pot for swimming in kindergartens as a trial project. I see that it has been passed by the government this year. Then it's also important to have the school as a pre-constructor's arena, and there's the left hand is the party that's prevented us from having multiples to introduce one hour of physical activity every day in the sculetida – the left hand was on the tip. So my question is why left is for swimming in kindergartens, but against 1 hour of physical activity every day in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e628	First, symmetry is not only advanced, but reinforced in the budget agreement, with a new 15 million. kr, so it is a very important and preventive measure, and already in kindergarten. The left is not opposed to physical activity in the school, but we have great faith that physical activity can be better integrated into very much of the other education, that one can use the community environment and various activities also in one can call the ordinary teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e635	A follow-up: Then the representative Terje Breivik misunderstood, because what the Left voted down was asking a matter from the government to introduce an hour of physical activity every day in the school just in such a way that it could be integrated into the teaching – it didn't have to be an entirely new hour. Our proposal was within today's frame hour. So after that representative says now, will the Left be able to reconsider this and be involved in creating multiples for a goal that all the elephants should have an hour of physical activity in the school every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e641	What I can say to the representative Toppe also from the Chair of the Storting, is that one of the major debates that is now under way is the 'all-day school'. In that context, we're going to have a fairly comprehensive process for the first time: what does all day school really mean? And not least, what should a day of all time be filled with? The signature is now the leader of the Left Application Committee and can be seen as one of the debates that we have already started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e646	Today's government has increased the cash support. It's a system where you pay parents not to use kindergarten. For many, it means getting paid to stay at home and away from work, or it means paying a day’s mother, or sending money out of the country to children living in other countries. The problematic aspects of the cash support are well-lit in my view. The representative, Mr. Breivik, opened his speech on freedom. Therefore, I wonder: Is there any real freedom in an arrangement such as cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e651	It could in theory do that. It of course suggested that the amount had been so large that one had a real opportunity to choose between different things. When the Left, as I said, is delayed from the pulpit instead, goes in to liquidate the cash support, there are not least grounds with Keyword integration and equality. I mean, free of charge, that yesterday I read one or two places about a completely fresh report that shows that almost half of those who are currently receiving cash support have a foreign background. It illustrates a little of the problem of today's arrangement, and is also the reason why the Left every year proposes to liquidate the cash support in its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e656	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e659	I would like to thank you for the debate so far. We will, as several have mentioned, deal with gender equality at a later stage, but it is natural to mention it now too, not least because the Committee itself has referred to the notification in its position. The title is known as Equality in practice. If there is to be a message that will live up to its own title, in its own name, the Storting must jointly provide for some real, actual action, and then the future budget must take the step of talking to practice in the political equality struggle. In this respect, I hope that the SV's alternative budget can inspire more people to increase their efforts. Because we look at the numbers and we look at the stories, there is still a need for increased efforts in the equality struggle. Equality does not come of itself, nor has it ever come of itself. There's always been a focused effort and a fight that's behind it. It's about seeing social life, family life and working life in the context. In the SV budget, we have given priority to raising an equal working life. We have done this by strengthening tripartite cooperation for equality, by setting out funds to test equal pay standards at different workplaces and through means to strengthen full-time culture, a work we did well in the red-green government and targeted efforts, which also gave good results both in the private and public sectors. And we give priority to the fight against discrimination against pregnant women in working life, a major and widespread problem, and funds for more experience with the six-hour day, not to forget the extended birth rate to 14 weeks. Economic autonomy is the basis for making free and independent choices. For this reason, the position of women in the labour market needs to be strengthened, which is one of the most important efforts to be made in the future. There is a need for a safe and organised working life, not a weakening of the labour-environment law, which clearly has gender-based policies. But freedom is also about more than economic freedom; it is about freedom to live a life without violence and abuse. We know that attitudes are part of reflecting the actions we are doing. Therefore, SV will have a nationwide programme against sexual harassment, against the unwanted attention around gender, body and sexuality, which is one form of harassment, which takes place in schoolyards throughout the country, at parties and in women's lives every single day. Over half of women in life are subjected to sexual harassment, and that is something that helps to take power and control from women over their own bodies and their own lives. At the same time, the offer needs to be strengthened for those who are today subjected to violence and abuse, both to large and to small ones. That is why I would commend the Christian People's Party and the Left for every movement they have managed to achieve in terms of both preventing violence and assault, and also safeguarding those who are being exposed today. We know that violence against mother is violence against children – it can be as harmful to witness violence as being subjected to violence. Violence, assault and care failure can cause lasting damage, and it will always put its mark on it. Therefore, children’s daily lives must be marked by safe and accessible adults as having the ability to see children and believe in children. And that's why we're strengthening the children in our budget by having enough adults in kindergartens, in schools, in school health services, and not least in child protection, in order to be able to intervene in the lives that would be so different, which are the responsibility of adults. Children are 20 pst. by the population, but 100 pst. of the future. It must also appear in the budgets adopted here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e678	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e681	The representative Bergstø has arranged for a 6-hour day on several occasions. It's been tried before, with not exactly great luck. We are facing a situation in Norway today where our business life is quite difficult economically. Then my question is, how does a 6-hour day, which will make it even tougher for our own business and weaken our competitiveness, make it easier for women to get out of work? So how does it make our business even tougher make it easier to create equality in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e688	Thank you for a very good question. Over the 6-hour working day, more people will have room for work, and we could have a working life where more people can also work for longer periods of time. Today, too many people leave the labour market as sick and disabled. Had we had a more human work life, a shorter normal working day, perhaps more people would be ready to work at retirement. Today, too many women work part-time. The alternative could be full-time instead of having to work reduced to make ends meet at home in time, while the old man has to work overtime to get the financial ends to meet. So I would like to encourage the representative Tønder to visit a training centre in Rogaland that operates with a 6-hour working day. It is a privately started company, which refers to low sick leave, good financial results and very good well-being and family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e699	A 6-hour day sounds amazing for most of us. We should like to go down to normal working hours, most of them sitting on Stortinget. Then we'd be fine. But I don't fully understand it – a gym isn't so competitive from abroad. We have an industry that is constantly facing competition from abroad, we see lower oil prices, our business is struggling, and we have more bankruptcies. My question is, how does making it more expensive for a business make it better for women, when their workplace goes bankrupt?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e713	It is not more expensive to have lower sick leave. A good part of the places where you can see that the 6-hour day has been tried out are lower sick leave and higher well-being as part of the results. I am pleased that the Right seems to have a six-hour day that sounds great. We share that view on SV's side. Now I don't think the way there goes through this hall alone. The path to the 6-hour day must go through that we can facilitate through trials, in both the private and public sectors, in order to see what it does to profitability, what it does to sick leave, whether it has an impact on how long people are able to stand in work and how good life we think we have. The path to the 6-hour day must be through the fact that it is also a priority in the settlements, on the part of the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e721	One of the challenges in the field of gender equality is the injustice that lies in the fact that in many workplaces women feel to earn less — have less pay — than men for equal work. The Christian People's Party has called for us to perhaps walk the path of an equal pay pot, which you can use in tripartite cooperation. Is SV in agreement? And what other measures, if any, does SV see that we can use to balance this injustice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e726	Thank you for a good question. There are several things that need to be able to balance the differences between women and men in terms of wages. One of them is about establishing a good culture for full-time – ensuring that no 16.3 pst. positions in women’s dominated professions are proclaimed, but that there are 100 pst. which is the general rule. Then we have to secure people's right to full position. You'll also get a different pension later in life. I also believe in SV's proposal for increased tripartite cooperation for more equal work. With regard to the pot proposal, I support its intention, but I have to admit that I find it difficult to see how it will work in practice. But I would like to discuss it more closely with the Christian People's Party and others who promise these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e735	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e738	The family is the strongest social community we have. It contributes to a secure framework around the growth of children. The government wants to strengthen the family's position in society and give families freedom of choice and flexibility through a variety of solutions. The government will help to strengthen the support apparatus around the parents and families who need it, because we know that safe parents also create safe children. Families are different, and they have different needs. For me, it's important that society sees the individual family and makes tailor-made offerings, especially where the needs are greater. An important contribution to the budget adopted today by the Storting is the strengthening of family protection. It will provide room for increased efforts to prevent, work aimed at families with high levels of conflict and offers to parents and families living with violence. When the Stortinge adopts the budget for 2016, the budget for family protection has increased by over 90 million. kr since this government took over. Good help from our partners Christian People's Party and Left has contributed greatly to this historic promise. The government is concerned with gender equality, and has also put forward proposals for a new, comprehensive equality and discrimination law at the hearing, and has also promoted the gender mainstreaming Communication in practice. Equality in Norway is not measured in more bureaucracy and more structures, for which the Labour Party is called upon. It is great that at least the representative of Bergstø has understood that the gender equality message is not a budgetary proposition, but a message that must be followed up in the other budgets in the future. The Communication contains a number of equal opportunities promotions in several budgets. Today, I want to highlight in particular the efforts of girls and technology, and not least the work being done to strengthen crisis centres. I am dedicated to strengthening the work against violence and assault. We know that violence and abuse can be devastating to children's physical and mental health, quality of life and development. In addition, violence and abuse have major socio-economic consequences. That is why I am pleased that the budgetary agreement strengthens Alternatives to Violence, that the grant for the operation of centres for children exposed to violence is increasing, and that the incest centres and children's homes are being strengthened. This is an important step in the budget that has now been negotiated, and sends important signals to society that we do not accept violence and abuse, and the government is well in the process of working on the escalation plan adopted by the Storting and now coordinated by my department. Poverty is a complex problem. It is shameful and a problem often conceals a child’s environment. In the budget, the government has followed up the ‘Children living in poverty’ strategy. The aim of the strategy is to prevent poverty from inheriting. Strengthening efforts to combat child poverty will help more children and young people to participate in vacations and leisure activities, regardless of the financial situation of their parents. I am very pleased that, through the budgetary agreement, we are further increasing the allocation of the grant scheme against child poverty. In addition, more services that are important for poor children are being strengthened as earmarked for increased staffing in health and school health services. Giving children a safe upbringing is one of society’s most important tasks. Good and proper help to vulnerable children and young people brings great benefits, mainly to the individual child, but also to society. The vast majority of children in child protection are assisted by municipal child protection services, and the number of children receiving help has increased considerably in the last ten years. The starting point of the Child Protection Act is that children should grow up with their biological parents and that help should be given primarily at home. So far, the Child Welfare Service has had few instruments if parents do not want help. Now, Stortinget has joined in a change of laws that allows parents to impose relief measures, and I am very pleased about that. In this way, we can prevent the need for takeovers. This is an important investment for the government, and I expect that this will help more children grow up with their biological parents. With the bet that comes from the government, the law can come into force from April 1st next year. Foster homes are the most commonly used option when child protection needs to be out of the home for a short or longer period of time. The number of children in foster homes has increased considerably in recent years, and I am very pleased that in the budget agreement there has been an additional allocation for the recruitment of foster homes. When we are in the situation we now have that we need more care centres for lonely minors, and that they are to be settled in a municipality, foster homes are an important measure for those children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e762	When, in this debate, the representatives of the population refer to the government's gender equality message, it is because for the first time the government has shown its overall equality policy. The problem is that there is no equality policy in the gender equality message. We have a government that has resigned in gender equality policy, that weakens equality and puts it in reverse, and that believes that everyone other than the government should settle to ensure equality. The Council of State now stated in its statement that the notification should be followed up in the budgetary proposals. Why does the government in this budget start cutting the appropriations for the gender equality actors we have – the Equality Ombudsman, the equality centres, the LHBT field and the gender equality pot? Is it going to be more or less equal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e769	Unlike the Workers' Party, our gender equality message has focused on the challenges we face today. We have challenges in the field of violence, in education, in the field of work and not least in the field of health. These are the challenges we face in the field of equality. The government believes that we need to strengthen the measures that actually change the challenges we face today. Unlike the Labour Party, we believe that equality today does not change by strengthening the structures we already have, and by more bureaucracy. Yes, the Equality Ombudsman got a cut of 1 million. kr. They have a budget of 60 million. kr, but the government has strengthened the Equal Opportunities Agreement by 1 million. kr. We believe that equality today is not strengthened by strengthening the structures that the Labour Party is calling for here. It remains to be heard from the Workers' Party what challenges they believe it is in the gender equality field today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e778	There is no new information that this government does not see the need to build structures to achieve equal opportunities for women and men. The Council of State stated that she is committed to strengthening the action that works. One of the measures that has proved to be the most effective in making Norway the world’s best country to live in is the introduction of parental leave with a strong father’s quota. The social partners agree that it is the instrument that works best. If we're going to achieve equality, and if we're going to have a more equal working life, we need a more equal distribution of parental leave. This government has cut my dad's quota. Experience from all other countries shows that when fathers are granted fewer rights, they take less leave. Now we see that it was right -- what did we say? Norwegian fathers take out less leave as a result of cuts in the quota. Nevertheless, state councillor Horne, when the government cut the quota, said that she had believed that fathers were going to take out more leave when the government cut off. Now the Council of State realizes that she was wrong, and what will the Council of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e787	Today's gender equality challenges are not about four weeks of paperwork or cash support, which the representative Trettebergstuen also likes to bring forward in this work. We have one of the world's best parental care systems, and the parental care system is for the children. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has chosen to increase the share of the parental pension scheme so that more children can have their parents at home. I understand that the Working Party thinks it's fun to bring out the last Nav numbers. Let me just clarify about the Nav numbers, which are valid for the first six months of 2015, that there are numbers that include three different schemes. But what the Workers' Party does not choose to include is that the Nav numbers also show that there are several fathers who have taken out more than 14 weeks in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e796	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that we have received more funds for family protection. Last year we got a decent lift. We didn't get the same promise for next year, but there's still more money coming. One of the reasons we are happy about it is that the family protection offices have been charged with several tasks without it being compensated by increased funds in the past. We are given signals that the family protection offices will now also have tasks related to the refugees coming, that they will have tasks related to the asylum recipients – that they should enter and contribute there. My question is, is there going to be funds to the family protection offices, so that they can do a good job in that area? Where applicable: What tasks shall family protection offices undertake to perform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e805	First of all, I want to say that I'm very happy that we've got the historic investment in family protection, with over 90 million. kr since this government took over. It is thanks to good efforts also from the Christian People's Party and the Left. It shows that this government is following up with money when we give family protection more tasks. Family protection has used this money to strengthen its staff and to work more preventively. With regard to the question raised by the representative Beköld, there are no signs that they are going to get new jobs to work on, but there is something we have to look up to the refugee situation. But there are several municipalities that have the ICDP, which is a parental guidance program, in their introduction program, and it's an area we know that family protection can be contributing to. So the fact that family protection as a good service, and as a low threshold offer, can be used up against those families – including refugee families – that might need some help, I think, is important. But it is also important that they do not get new tasks without it following money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e813	That's what I wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e818	The proposition says that the government wants to mobilise voluntary organisations so that they increasingly encourage immigrants and their children to participate in the community. I mentioned in my post that there is an incentive scheme for such voluntary organisations. This was changed in the budget last year from the county to all municipalities, to 20 municipalities in the country. In Hordaland, that means that only Bergen was given support. Municipalities in Sunnhordland, North Hordland and Hardanger then lost support for their voluntary organisations, which carry out good integration work in different communities. With the refugee situation that the country is in now, I think it's natural to change this, so that voluntary organisations in municipalities other than the 20 get to participate. The question is whether the Council of State sees it as a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e825	This is within the budget area of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, but I am responsible for it, so I will answer the representative Toppe. It is quite right, as the representative says – a change was made in the current year’s budget, where the government prioritised the money to voluntary teams and organisations in the 20 municipalities that have the most immigrants, and not to the least. There has also been an increase in municipal development funds for the current year, on which there is a survey. With regard to the small municipalities that cannot apply for funds and that do not receive the funds that have now gone to the 20 largest municipalities, there is nothing wrong with the municipalities being able to spend money from the integration grant to voluntary activities, because as the representative says, if we succeed in the integration work in a municipality, it is not something that the state and local authorities can do alone. We depend on the voluntary effort. I am very pleased that there is an increase in voluntary teams and organisations and diversity work. Agreements have also been reached with the Sports Association, which will also be involved and contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e832	It is the jam we have treatments in Stortinget, so that the members of the government get a break from the pepper cake in these times. In order to bake pepper cakes, it is needed as well-known pepper cake forms. Some of the most famous are the figures of women and men. We can view this as symbols of narrow gender roles, which can be hard to break out of. Then my question is, what does the government do, especially in this year's budget and in government's policies and efforts, to break down with narrow gender roles?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e841	At least then I can inform the representative Bergstø that I have both hearts, reindeer, pigs and slightly different pepper cake forms. I think it's important that we have freedom of choice for the families that make peppercakes. [[Laughter]] To the question from the representative Bergstø, what are we doing to change the gender roles? I think it's important – this is also in the gender equality message – to focus on the fact that girls and boys can actually be what they want, and take the education they want from what interests and knowledge they have, not from what is expected. I am very pleased that the government in the budget has received several million dollars for the project Girls and Technology, which is a collaboration between the NHO and the University of Agder, where we manage to get more girls to apply for the engineering study. It is an important measure to enable more girls to become engineers. We need more girls as engineers, and we also need more men as nurses and teachers. That is why I would also like to highlight the action Men in Health, which is also an important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e848	I've never been in doubt that councillor Horne has both the heart and the peppercake heart in the right place. And when there's reindeer inside the picture, the Finnland representative becomes extra happy. [[Laughter]] I think girls and technology is a very nice and concrete project. At the same time, we see that it may require structural intervention to take a systematic settlement with narrow gender roles and expectations for boys and girls, from kindergarten to school and to further education choices. In order to do so, targeted projects are needed, and some important carriers of such projects are often the equality centres, which first experienced budget cuts. What does the Council of State think about the role of equality centres when it comes to presenting change projects that can also challenge gender roles in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e857	I would like to stress that equality is not created by the public alone. Gender equality is also created in the workplace, where people live, and it is also created in cooperation with the voluntary sector. The representative Bergstø brings out the equality centres that we have today. We build on the equality centres. They received a cut in the government budget proposal of NOK 400000. I see they've got an increase of 2 million. kr following the budgetary agreement. It's happy for the work that they're doing. But it is also important to bear in mind that equality and the solutions to the challenges we face today in the field of equality are not only created with new structures or more bureaucracy – it is also being created with the projects that address the challenges we face in the field of equality today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e864	Then the president learned at least that there is a large selection of peppercakes! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e869	When the Right Party and the Advance Party formed a government, many believed in a better kindergarten offer for the small children’s families. Representatives of both of these parties had cried out both long and loud and complained about the last government's greedy kindergarten offer. When the investment of 6,970 seats was removed with a pen stroke in the 2014 budget, it attracted attention. In my home municipality, Larvik, for example, we got. cut of nearly 5 million. kr for kindergarten. It is said that political memory is often short. Those who followed the babysitting debate before the government change could hardly have avoided having Højres Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, according to the Address Paper, have a continuous recording with monthly counting times. She thought today's system had dramatic consequences for small children's families and was socio-economically poor. Right Ingerd Schou complained before the election that the Right would give running nursery receptions, and that the Right and Advance Party would wreck the date hysteria, we could read in the Evening Post. The time the representative of big business, now the councillor Solvency Horne, said to TV2 that once we've come so far in this guardian state that families have to plan the time for births to have children's playgrounds, it goes without saying that it's time to introduce a family reform that gives power back to the families. The result after the government change speaks for itself. In 2014, the first year was recorded as a decrease in the number of children in kindergarten – 286 400 versus 287 100 years earlier. The Education Directorate registered a kindergarten queue of 8,300 children the same year. And finally, the number of seats was increased with record low 340 – not even one place per municipality. So the new thing is that the queue has become very long, but in return, the criticism from the Right Party and the Advance Party on behalf of the small children's parents has been blown off. Time and again, the government's proposal has been voted down in Stortinget. And now in the financial position, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in proposals, give an impatient message to the government to come back with better offers to the parents of one-year-olds. But more continuous admission: no, but a more extended date arrangement until 30 October – a proposal that is exactly the same as the Minister for Children has called the election of a state based on foreclosure; a proposal that was identical to the Workers' Party's proposal to start escalating against two admissions. The Workers' Party proposes to extend the appropriations to the nursery provision, so that a year-old person born until 31 December will have the right to work. Child protection is making a great effort every day in the meeting with children and young people who are without parents or other adults who make up for them. Now there are even more children who are not just alone, but who are on the run. What we see around us requires both wise adults in general, wise decision-makers and wise entrepreneurs. Fortunately, the specific efforts to improve municipal child protection, from 2011, have given better capacity with around 920 new posts. However, through consultations and meetings with employees, there is no doubt that we need to continue to strengthen this. That this was not in the government's draft budget was probably in the situation we are now in, most surprising. That the Christian People's Party and the Left got the Right and the Advance Party on better thoughts, I know that many people with me appreciate it. We are proposing to increase the budget by 40 million. kr, so that the money is earmarked for jobs, and that they are directed primarily at those municipalities that need the most, because there is still a lack here. In the last year’s budget debate, concerns were also expressed about the local authorities’ ability to settle single minor asylum seekers – EMA – because the government cut the reimbursement scheme. We're repeating this, and we're once again proposing an increase in the rate of 90 pst. It is to assure us that the threshold for the housing of minors is made as low as possible. I would like to express my support to the Minister of the Child to want to live in the municipalities, despite the negative signals that her party leader, the Minister of Finance, says. It can't be easy to be Solvency Horn. An overall judicial committee called in Innst. 315 S for 2014-2015 on a contingency plan related to children living with violence. The Committee asked the government for proposals at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2016. In the vote we are considering today, the government parties wrote that the government took a decision on 15 October that it would not be presented before the autumn of 2016. There may, of course, be reasons why it cannot, but it shows that the government has decided not to follow the Storting's request in one case. It's approaching arrogance. I assume that the Council of State uses the occasion here today to explain this in more detail, since she has not intervened before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e890	There are few aspects of family policy that affect as many people as the kindergarten area. From that point of view, there's really little parental involvement in kindergarten. There might be several reasons for this. This may be related to parents’ perception of kindergarten, as a school, as a professional area in which one must rely on professional frameworks and professional management to take care of everyday life in a good way. This is good, even though we have many debates about kindergarten in which we wish parents were also involved. As politicians, however, we have active and good dialogue with employees’ organisations, and it is of course very important to further develop kindergartens as children’s learning venues before they reach school. For a long time, the right has been concerned with focusing more attention on the contents and quality of the nursery. There is, of course, no resistance to this either, although it is easy to detect differences in the kindergarten policy of the various parties. With the budget presented by the government, and the priorities that lie there, it is easy to be satisfied and pleasant to be able to establish that the long-term work continues. This is a good budget for kindergarten, and it is a formidable commitment to the content of kindergarten by facilitating the building of skills among staff. The right is very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has so clearly expanded the focus on competence and continuing education at school to include kindergarten. We have doubled our efforts on quality in three years, and in 2016 more than 400 million will be used. NOK to this. In addition to promising kindergarten teachers, an important competence, it clearly underlines our desire for kindergarten to be an active learning venue and preparation for further education. The best thing we can do is give our children the best conditions for further development. Another clear and clear sign of the pediatric policy of the government, and of which we in the Right are proud, is that during this period there has been a clear improvement in the social profile of parental pay. Low income families get free core time in kindergarten – now for 3 to 5 year-olds – and the income-based grading of the parental payment contributes further to a social profile we can be proud of. Ensuring quality and good contents in kindergarten will be a continuous work over time, but we believe that the lifting that is now being done will make it more attractive to be employed in kindergarten. We believe that a lift for kindergarten teachers should make them stay in positions longer than has been the case, and that more people who have left kindergarten would like to come back and use their professional skills. We need good kindergarten teachers to get enough trained pedagogical leaders in kindergartens. That challenge is still ahead of us, but we're on the right track. The government also aims to facilitate more flexible admission into kindergartens. The initiative, which until now has given more than 3,400 new children's seats, is a good and important step on the way, and it is good to note that in the municipalities there is a great willingness to follow this up. Through this budget, the government has also completed the process of stepping up non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens by changing the payment rate from 98 to 100 pst. At the same time, it has been cleared up as the basis for non-discrimination so that a person can now abandon endless debates on bias one way or another. We need all the good kindergarten places we have and can get. There is therefore great satisfaction in the Right that this non-discrimination has been facilitated. Now it's quality and content that have to count. In order for parents also to be better informed about how kindergartens operate, and what offers they have for the children, we have also put in place the Barnehagefakta.no portal. It shall provide parents with the opportunity to participate in the activities of kindergartens and provide them with the basis for their choice of place for the children. Our hope is that this also contributes to a closer dialogue between kindergarten and parents on the everyday life of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e907	The representative Trettebergstien began to talk about equality and that we should not boast of our oil, but of our women. My responsibility is kindergarten. My first point is that kindergarten is not primarily a social economy. It is not primarily an institution that is justified that both parents should be out of work. The primary task of kindergarten is also not equality, although a good kindergarten can contribute to and contribute to more equality. The primary task of the nursery is to give the children a good upbringing, that they should have a safe catch to crawl into, that they should have a place where they can play, where they can learn, where they can be curious, where they can make friends, where they can learn to be small people. Therefore, the most important effort for this government has been the content of kindergarten. The nursery agreement, to which all the parts of the Stortinget joined, led to a massive expansion of the number of places. There was a lot of attention around the quantity, and former councillor Kristin Halvorsen is going to have a reward for leaving herself more places, if not as many as she had hoped for. But the quantity might have gone at the expense of the quality, the content, what actually meets the children every day: competent employees, that we have a good pedagogical scheme, that we have security for the children, attention to what happens, every single day. Therefore, the most important and greatest effort of this government has been a commitment to quality. For 2016, we propose to increase the funding for quality measures by 130 million. kr. We're going to spend a total of 410 million. on measures to promote the quality of kindergarten. That's 240 million. kr more than in 2013, well over a double allocation of three years. It's offensive kindergarten bet. It is money that is spent both on getting more kindergarten teachers by providing more of those who are in kindergarten and e.g. are assistants with a professional letter, can take additional training and become kindergarten teachers. There is also money spent on giving employees in kindergarten more professional weight. All types of staff in kindergartens, from the kindergarten teacher to the assistant with a letter to the assistant without a letter, will find offers addressed to him. That's an important bet. Then there have been questions from several representatives about the financing of kindergartens. Then I'm going to ignore the rhetoric that the private kindergartens that for eight years contributed to what was called a red-green baby hail, now called barons. And then I'm just going to mention that there are two things the government is doing that the opposition has to see in context: we're adding about the funding of the private kindergartens and their pension costs. In isolation, it's subtracting 340 million. out of the framework of the municipalities, which today go to the private kindergartens. Then we compensate the private kindergartens through equal treatment of public and private kindergartens, a promise that has not been made by the Right Party or the Left Party or the Christian People's Party, but which is something Kristin Halvorsen, Jens Stoltenberg and several others promised year after year, and which the red-greens also gave money to year after year before they stopped and made it into battle cause number one to avoid it. In order to simplify this, it is up to the opposition when they do not want equal treatment, and at the same time it has not been addressed by the government – without any major treatment, for this is the government's mandate to do something about – has done with pension treatment, to withdraw several hundred million dollars from private kindergartens. All in all, even our arrangement gives a little less for the private kindergartens, approx. Eighteen million. kr at country level. But that's subtracting 340 million. Dr directly from the private kindergartens, where almost half of the children in Norway go, should be a good contribution to quality, and that rhetoric should be clarified about barons and sky-high yields, I think at best is a misunderstanding of what the position really implies. So it is possible that the opposition has not really looked at what they are proposing, when they have changed policies compared to what they themselves stood for, namely equal treatment. It would be interesting to get an answer. In addition, I am glad that, together with the cooperation parties, we have also strengthened the efforts of the poor families. We said every year in opposition that the main priority should be parents with poor advice. We provided the government with moderation arrangements to ensure that everyone has a more reasonable kindergarten if they have less advice. Now, together with our friends in the Christian People's Party and Left, we've also had enhanced moderation plus free core time for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e932	To cover the fact that for the first time since the kindergarten agreement there are fewer children in kindergartens and the queues are growing, the Council of State speaks mostly of him being concerned with quality. Neither is the government capable of action. The Council of State itself stated that it is now increasing the grants to private kindergartens, but without taking advantage of the possibilities to impose equivalence in quality and offer. Not later than one week ago, the Council of State was instructed by an impatient majority to get on the road with what everyone knows is the most important quality factor, namely several employees with child-care skills. The majority of the population asked the government councils to come on track with a plan for the standard of manning from 2020 and the removal of the exemption requirement, i.e. against the will and votes of the government parties. What does the Council of State think about him being forced every year by the Left and Christian People's Party to build more kindergartens and now be forced by a unanimous opposition to deliver on quality, because the opposition considers it necessary to join forces and take decisions against the government because the government does not deliver?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e937	I must first correct the representative of the Trettebergstien. In fact, our overall arrangement for financing the private kindergartens involves a little less money for the private kindergartens. That the Workers' Party has chosen a scheme with dramatic cuts to the kindergartens where half of the country's children go, they have to answer for themselves. Of course, as far as the decision in Stortinget is concerned, we have to follow it up. But I have to say that it's a little paradoxical that you have to put forward a plan to achieve what we all agree on. The previous government said that we should have a crew standard in kindergartens by 2020. This government says we're going to have a crew standard in kindergarten by 2020. We're in the process of doing that. The working party's understanding of offensiveness is that a plan should be made to achieve it. This is what the government is doing. We're working on it. We have the same goal of this as the previous government. I must also add that the fact that we have tripled the funds for quality in the sector is also a contribution if not to the standard of manpower, then to quality, to better professional development and to better kindergartens for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e944	When an overall opposition finds it necessary to take decisions and ask the Council of State to come up with a plan as soon as possible on how to reach the requirement for a standard of manning from 2020 and the removal of the exemption requirement, it is because this government has not shown its willingness to follow it up, and the Storting is impatient. The government doesn't deliver quality. Now that the Council of State chooses to treat private and municipal kindergartens in the same way as regards grants, without taking advantage of the possibility of allowing municipalities to make demands for equal quality and equivalent services, he goes further in leaving the Labour Party line that we want better quality. He has the ability to take action, but he doesn't. In addition, we see that the government has left its election campaign promise of continuous admission. There are fewer children in kindergartens and longer queues. Is the council satisfied with his own efforts, where he has left the promise of continuous admission, the queues are growing, and the Storting is forcing him to kneel?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e951	If I had been satisfied with my own efforts, I would have stopped the policy. If you don't want to do better, there's no point in being elected – of course not. We've done a lot of good. I'm proud of what we've done, but we have a lot more to do. It is a bit symptomatic that there is so much unpresist in the opposition and especially the Workers' Party. It is true that children’scools have fallen in Norway. That's why there's also a few fewer people this year who have children's playgrounds than it was before. It is also true that while the red-greens were sitting, for example, they went. The proportion of four- or five-year-olds down – I don’t remember exactly what it was. That in itself doesn't disturb the big picture. All in all, there are the same number of children who have kindergarten space. When you heard the representative Mandt, you almost had to sharpen your ears to hear the difference between the one and the other. We have high kindergarten attendance. In addition, the majority of current seats have not only allocated funds to more than 3000 new places that can be used by municipalities, but have also gone through moderation schemes that make it more reasonable for parents with poor advice, as the Workers' Party government has for many years refused to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e960	In the financial position adopted last week, the government parties and cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, put in place a very important note: «The government asks the government to submit proposals to amend § 12a of the Kindergarten Act in such a way that children who reach the age of one year by the end of October at the latest of the year in which they are applied for kindergarten are entitled to have their place in the kindergarten from the age of one year in accordance with this law. Children born before 1 September shall have their place by the end of August as today.’;» Can the Council of State assure the Storting that he is moving quickly with a bill, a proposition, so that we can put this into practice already during 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e972	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e977	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e982	It states that the main findings of international research on kindergarten quality show that the competence of staff is the most important single factor in the well-being and development of children. In the proposition, it's done okay that in 2014 had 60 pst. by the staff in kindergarten, and that 55 pst. by the ordinary day-care centres, the pedagogical norms were met without using a derogation from the training requirement, against 49 pst. in 2013. This is an improvement, it's going in the right direction, but Stortinget has said that they want a standard of manning, and the council said in the article that the government is working on the introduction of a standard of manning from 2020. It's going very late, so I want to listen to the Council of State about how he thinks he's going to achieve the 2020 target.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e989	These are two different questions. One is the standard of education, and there I have said that I believe the most important thing is to meet today's standard of education before we adopt a stricter standard of education. Some municipalities have met the educational norm, while in some areas, especially around the big cities, there are still labor. But it's quite right, as the representative Toppe says, that the lack of kindergarten teachers is getting smaller every year. When we took over, there was a lack of over 5,000 kindergarten teachers in the sector. Now it's approx. 3,600, if I don't remember wrong. As far as standard manning is concerned, I believe that introducing this by 2020 is more than within reach. We should do that. An important point to get it in place is precisely to have a non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens, so that the election promise, the promise made by the previous government, is now fulfilled and is the basis for having a recruitment standard both in the municipal and private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e996	State councils claim to be concerned with the contents of the nursery. But only a few weeks ago, the Council of State opposed the most important proposals to strengthen the content and quality of kindergartens. Governments refused to remove access for municipalities to grant permanent dispensations with regard to competence. The Council of State decided not to consider introducing the 50 pst. shall be kindergarten teachers. Together with the 2013 decision on a standard of living, it is the Øie selection I think is the most important measure for the quality and content of kindergartens. Fortunately, the Council of State lost this matter. A cleverly large majority of people went in for this. It has to be appreciated, and the government will continue to work on it. How do the councils of state go about setting up the race now? What time will we see the follow-up to the decisions of the Grand Prix?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1004	If you read my letter of reply to the Committee on Derogation, it is probably difficult to interpret it as if I am opposed to removing the possibility of permanent dispensation, rather the opposite. There's two things. It says that initially this is probably a pretty good idea. It also says that there will probably not be such a terrible impact on the sector. So it's always the way – and I think it applies to any government – that you want to put things forward when you've worked through them and in a bigger context. But I'm going to follow up on the decision of big business as quickly as possible. This means that as early as possible next year it should be possible to send it to the hearing, so that the exemption part is adopted – with effect from the autumn of 2016, if everything goes according to plan. In the case of an assessment of pedagogality of 50 pst, we have to get back to that. I mean, as I said, the most important thing is today's pedagogue... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1013	Knag Fylkesnes, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1016	And then we're done. The councils were actually in favour of something that the parties on the Stortinget voted against. Then we'll have it on us. When it comes to the pedagogical norms, I hear the council say one should come back to it on a later occasion. One was very concrete when there was a naughty hearing about the exemption access, where the bulk of the population was very clear. The follow-up to the second part of the Decision and the whole process towards 2020, which was decided by the Storting in 2013 at the latest, and which – I repeat – the Eye Selection in mind are some of the all, the most important proposals and measures to strengthen the content and quality of kindergartens: When will the Council of State come up with a case on this? Should this also happen in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1025	It is not common for state councils to stand in this room and respond to the dates on which you return to the Stortinget with matters. It is common for the Storting to ask for it, so the department works as quickly and efficiently as it can, and then you come back with it. But of course, I'm following up on what the Storting has decided. I just want to say two things. Manning standards 2020 and pedagogical norms belong to two different discussions. Our government statement says the same thing as the previous government, namely that we want a crew standard in 2020. I think we should be able to do that by 2020. Pedagogical norm belongs to another discussion. Then I must also – although it is not really my job to ask questions – say that a prerequisite for this is equal treatment of public and private kindergartens. It has certainly been from the previous government as well. The paradox is that when you want to pull out – to put it a little simplified – 340 million. kr of private kindergartens, while introducing higher requirements for staffing, there are enough in private kindergartens that do not make it go completely unchallenged.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1034	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1037	I have to say that it is paradoxical to hear a state council talk so hot about the need for quality in kindergarten, when we see at the same time a council that is so passive to the degrees when it comes to the main factor in ensuring quality in kindergarten, namely increased crewing. The story of Norway is the story of how we have jointly met challenges that have stood before us and seized the opportunities. What we know today has not come of itself, that is the result of a continuous transition and of political choices. We're in a time of great challenges that will require a lot of us. Many families fear the future as unemployment increases. Climate challenges put the world community to the test. Terrorism and war cause great fear and send thousands to flight. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is number one. High employment combined with a serious and organised working life is a prerequisite for a society of small differences. It also provides income for the community that can finance education, health care and infrastructure. And it gives companies that compete on an international market an important advantage. It also provides the basis for one of the policy's most important tasks: to protect individuals and the family. A prerequisite for freedom is that these basic social structures work, and that people feel secure for work, homes and homes. We have seen what that means: birth rates fell in those countries that were hardest hit by the financial crisis and the political choices made in its wake, which were just about tightening up social benefits. The government has no less blame for the oil prices than the red-green government had for the financial crisis. That's how you meet such challenges, which is crucial. When today’s government took over, Norway was a low unemployment country in a Europe of increasing unemployment. Now we see increasing unemployment in Norway, while unemployment goes down in the rest of Europe. Step by step, we see that policy is going in the wrong direction – away from what characterises the country. The government’s policy puts pressure on families, for example: more use of temporary jobs, increased work pressure, Sunday open shops. This weakens the balance of work and society and makes it more difficult to plan everyday life and the future. At the same time, the freedom of individuals from the government’s prioritisation of cash support over kindergartens and cutbacks in Dad’s time is weakened. The volunteer package of the Labour Party in the budget is about taking care of what we value so highly in Norway. Voluntary activities and sport contribute invaluablely to good growth conditions and to strong communities. The volunteer package of the Workers' Party of nearly 400 million. €10 million in basic support for children's and youth organisations, €2 million extra for Freefonds, extra VAT compensation for voluntary organisations of 100 million, €200 million for retiring sports facilities, €20 million extra for volunteer centres and €55 million extra for VAT compensation for sports facilities, a scheme that we are proposing at the same time to make rules and which we are going to discuss in the budget debate on Framework 3. The major challenges facing Norway in terms of unemployment, climate, and in terms of the refugee situation are only solved by strong communities. We need a government that stands up and takes on the responsibility of a government to meet these major challenges, to respond to them, and to take action that helps to limit the increasing unemployment, to re-establish activity and, not least, to provide security for the family. In all these areas, today’s government fails by creating increased unforeseeableness and increased insecurity. We regret that for the most part. With the Labour Party's proposals in the budget, new steps could be taken to meet the growing concern that many people today feel about the future. We had a hope that the government would also be willing to talk to us about the possibility of having an increased commitment to volunteering. Unfortunately, we also see that the government is out of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1052	I'm going to try to get us out of the graveyard about fear, pessimism and insecurity, distributed by the previous representative, and instead talk about consumer policy, which has not been so much about today, but which is also within our territory, and which is a very important area. Consumer policy exists to ensure a strong market position for the consumer. You and I, i.e. consumers, must be able to make their own choices as far as possible, but it must be informed and therefore also responsible choices. Nevertheless, from time to time, the consumer is faced with situations that end in a dispute between himself and the market, in which case relevant legislation and effective dispute resolution procedures must be in place. In modern consumer policy, the Internet plays an increasingly important role. There are more and more of us on the web orientating us. That's where we get information and increasingly act as well. It is therefore important that we provide good information, especially in those areas where the market does not automatically contribute. The government has several important projects in progress, including: through different portal solutions to provide market information. It is also important that, as far as possible, there is an opportunity to resolve disputes without going into complicated and costly legal proceedings. It is therefore gratifying that the offer in this area is expanded by the fact that several areas of action are being mediated by the Consumer Council, and we look forward to the forthcoming proposal on a complaint body for consumer matters. A new Consumer Vistuary Act has also been notified to strengthen the possibilities of non-judicial dispute resolution. At the same time, changes in the marketing law relating to telephone sales are notified. The size will work closely with this change, so that the business environment does not deteriorate unnecessarily, and so that the consideration of the income of non-governmental organisations is taken into account. It is in the consumer's interest that this part of the market is well regulated, while it is also in the consumer's interest that an established customer relationship allows for telephone contact. There may be anything from a car manufacturer who has to recall a car for a necessary repair, to the bank who wants to inform that the credit card has been misused. There are many considerations that need to be weighed. When we live in a modern society and expect efficiency, it is also good to see that the government demands the efficiency and organisation of its own department. The benefits we get with less red tape and more efficient use of money benefit the community. A concrete example of this is the transfer of the State Institute of Consumer Research to the University of Oslo and Akershus. This will enhance the professional quality and competitiveness of the research venues on which SIFO operates. The evaluation of the consumer policy instrument is ongoing, on the initiative of the majority of the European Parliament. There's a reason to be satisfied with that. The work has so far clarified that the Consumer Ombudsman and the Consumer Council individually do good work, but overall it appears to be somewhat fragmented and not cost-effective. This was also the hypothesis when the majority asked for the review. That is why we are pleased that the government will now look at how the proposals from work are to be followed up. These two businesses are too many the most important interface between the consumer and the authorities, and here we have everything to do with efficient and consumer-friendly organisation. It is also gratifying that we now need to work to find an effective and well-functioning mechanism to prevent debt problems for individuals. That this system is being run by the industry, I think it's crucial for it to get the quality we need. Consumer policy objectives can be summarised as follows: the strong position of the consumer must be improved through rights, effective dispute resolution and the organisation of responsible, environmentally conscious and informed choices. You and I are the consumer. Modern consumer policy is becoming increasingly important. In the youth of supply, increasingly globalised markets and different regulations in different countries, knowledge of rights, good dispute resolution and available market information is all the more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1073	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1076	Like the previous speaker, I focus on consumer protection and policy. This is a political area that we human beings meet every day in our everyday lives. It is important that we at Stortinget lead, and not least take the initiative, a consumer policy that, through a sustainable production and consumption pattern, gives people higher quality of life in everyday life. In early 2015, the government asked the Stortinget Government to draw up an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life, an action plan such as: includes action against environmental toxins both nationally and internationally, consumer information and sectoral dialogue. The government asked the government to take the initiative as soon as possible to regulate and ban the most dangerous non-regulated toxins in products already available in Norway. I repeat: as soon as possible. Today, the Council of State is in charge of consumer responsibility. It is therefore to be expected, even though the area is under another department, that the Council of State says something about how far this work has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1085	In the past, child protection has been shown to be at the frontier of irresponsible behaviour in this country, with the consequences it has for the children. What is also problematic for children is that they lose faith in those who are to help them. Then it's important that we do the right and important things in the future. I'm happy, I'm glad, I think it's really funny – or at least fun – that the government has now set up a test scheme in several municipalities. Those municipalities will be given increased responsibility for child protection tasks from next year. The purpose is to provide more children with timely and timely help. I'm glad they're now getting more responsibility for child protection. This will benefit the children and their families. Yes, this is a genuine message of joy within child protection, and we who have followed it closely for many years, see that this is and should be the right way to go. The proximity of the municipality to the individual child and family gives great advantage in helping the children and their families. Wide awareness of children and the situation of children is important in order to ensure timely and timely action. This government wants to try a new division of responsibilities in child protection. Yes, we have to do everything we can, and for the best of our children, and municipalities will be given increased responsibility for tasks and actions in the area of child protection. The trial mechanism shows that the government will give more responsibility and space for action to the municipalities, also in line with the municipal reform we are in the middle of. The test shall provide a reinforced offer to children in vulnerable situations. The quality should not depend on the municipality in which you live, but on the need you have as a child. The main purpose of the experiment is to gain experience and knowledge and to contribute to a good change in the process of introducing new responsibilities at national level. It is important that municipalities be able to see more services and have increased responsibilities, then within school and health, and see the whole of child protection in the context. This can prevent more radical and costly measures such as away from home. And municipalities must be given overall responsibility for foster home care, child welfare assistance and greater freedom of choice when choosing care institutions – where we do not believe that the private have anything colder than the municipal or public institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1096	Today's young fathers want a completely different way from their fathers to take responsibility at home and for their children. It is the spring quota that is the key to give them that opportunity. As the father quota expanded, we see that more and more men spend more time on their children, more on housework, and since the millennial shift, men have increased the time spent on housework, by almost one hour a day. It's by no means enough, but it's almost equal to a revolution. When the government decided to cut the spring quota, there was no need for warnings. Work life warned. LO and NHO thought it was a retreat. The Equality Ombudsman warned. Scientists warned. All political parties other than the Right and the Advance Party warned against the cut. Nevertheless, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality said that the cut might as well lead to the fathers taking out more leave. Julie Brodtkorb, who led the Right Women's Forum, was even more bastant and said that fathers were going to take longer leave if the father's quota disappeared completely. Now we have the fasit, at least parts of it. Men take less leave when the spring quota is cut, go against the Right and the Advance Party claimed. The question is: if the government really believes that it is a value for fathers to take out more leave, what measures does the government intend to use to stimulate it, when you do not want to use a family allowance? Unfortunately, the answer seems to be no action. The government has shown that they do not believe in policy measures. We see that with a father's quota. We saw that in the equality message. There came the government with a rather ok analysis, but no action. The Right Party and the Progress Party are really pleased with the results of gender equality work, but will not use the instruments that have produced the results. It's a little bit like wanting to get paid, but not working for it. Government parties are actually guilty of the greatest threat to equality, namely taking the development for granted. We'll never end up with equality. Equality work is like conditioning training, a continuous process. Saying that no, now we've come so far that now we don't have to use the tools that have taken us to where we are, is kind of like a top sportsman would say that no, training was okay when I was in bad shape, but now I'm in the shape of my life, so now I don't have to practice anymore, it's old-fashioned and unnecessary. A Petter Northug or Marit Bjørgen would never have said that. In the same way, it is with equality – it is continuous work. That the government doesn't have that attitude is probably also the explanation that gender equality is pretty bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1110	Opportunity and abuse are serious crime and a major social problem that must be addressed by all relevant committees at the Stortinget. Much good has been done, perhaps especially in the last ten years, when it applies to this field. More children get help, and more things are discovered. But there is still a long way to go to us where all children, women and men are exposed to power and abuse, they get the help they need. Thousands of people live daily in a kind of terror that I believe the fewer of us in here can imagine us. The response to this form of terrorism must be intensified. To help more children, child protection needs to be strengthened. In 2010, the Stoltenberg II government launched what we referred to as the Child Protection Lift, and it was a cross-political recognition that child protection had been underfunded for many years. Then began a race where an annual increase in the number of children’s rights and ear-marked funds. For this reason, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have moved the budget in the right direction, and I regret the setting today that the compromise states that one also has the 30 million. kr that came extra. I'm glad. In order to fight violence and assault, we depend on the State Council of Solvency Horne talking to Anders Anundsen, Bent Höie, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and several government councils working together against this. It is crucial that we still have good action plans linking the sectors. Without that, we can't see the wholeness and complexity of the problem. The working party has in its alternative budget a number of proposals for strengthening the work against violence in close relations. We suggest strengthening child protection by 40 million. kr, ear-marked. We suggest strengthening children's homes by 42 million. kr, in addition to the government's proposal, ear-marked. We're proposing to set 60 million. kr to the police for the investigation of abuses and violence against children. We're proposing five million. NOK extra to Kripos' work against online abuse. We're proposing two million. kr extra for medical examinations in the health chapter, and we also propose 2 million. kr extra to elective centre and incest centre. We also think it's important to label 200 million. kr for the school health service and 100 mill. kr in the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs for low-threshold aid for families, children and young people in municipalities. This shows that the Labour Party has a wholeness in its alternative budget when it comes to power and abuse, and I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left have moved the budget in the right direction. Children's legal security is not as good as their adults in this country. We adults had never accepted that thousands of children today must live with, with whom they are subjected by dangerous adults. Therefore, the child protection lift should not stop. It is important that it continues, so that the protection of children from dangerous crops is improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1123	I'll continue there where the previous speaker escaped. As a child protection student, I must express my disappointment at the government's commitment to child protection. SV, as mentioned above, launched a large child-restraint lift in government. There were 920 employees who are now following up children and parents in a vulnerable situation, who need action, or children who are experiencing serious health problems. The detection of care failure requires a lot. Employees are experiencing a lot of strain; records of messages are coming in, and they have to be checked. It's very good that people report to child protection, that more people do it, but what's not good is that the government has now stopped the child protection promise that we started. As a child protection student, I have heard from day one of my education that I am going to be burned out. It's worrying. FO, the Joint Organisation, of which I am a member, says about this year's budget that there's almost a child-rescue. Horne has shown a great commitment to the children, and that's good, but don't follow the expectations. Among those in contact with child protection, trust has increased; it is greater than among the general population. It's about child-restraint workers spending time building relationships and building trust. It'll take time. It takes time, and it requires employees. With an increasing number of messages, the children and their families need a continued commitment to child protection, and they need more than that government is willing to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1134	Everyone is concerned with early efforts, by prevention, by being wary, and common to these interventions is a form of cultivation of potential and preparedness for the unknown. We basically never know what we've prevented, contributed to, enhanced or triggered by giving everyone a good start, but we know what it can lead to. We know that a difficult childhood with a lack of care, lack of play and outburst, lack of friends, poor diet and health has a strong tendency to get serious, negative consequences for individuals and for society. It is very difficult to take back the lost time, almost impossible, and it is very demanding and costly for both individuals and society. Difor is research that says something about what a good childhood is, very interesting and should be leading our policy. National and international research shows that the density of adults and the competences of those added to kindergartens have an impact on how a child manages through life. Kindergartens with adequate and competent crops are positive for children’s development, but if their skills are too low and there are too few adults, the actual kindergartens may be negative for children’s development, especially for the very least. The research team warns against sending one-year-olds to kindergartens with too few pedagogical skills. The proportion of kindergarten teachers in Norwegian kindergartens is about 33 p.m., which is significantly smaller than in other educational institutions. And Norway is the only country in 25 OECD countries surveyed that has neither 50 pst. Pedagogy or 80 pst. the addition of children’s professional competence. The areas of the country that have had the lowest percentage of kindergarten teachers are Oslo, Akershus and parts of Rogaland. There are problems with the lack of kindergarten teachers our self-enhancing: when there are too few pedagogues and poor professional environments, more end. But it helps to set goals. Canvas is a private nursery owner who has invested in 50 pst. kindergarten teachers in their kindergartens. Despite the fact that they are still in areas where child care teachers are missing, they still manage to recruit enough educators. In this perspective, manning standards and pedagogical norms are important, and the Stortinget has decided to introduce them – against the votes of the government party. We can call it the plurality of ‘the new nursery roommates’, and that is the beginning of the new quality reform in the nursery, which we can call the ‘part 2 kindergarten reform’. I think it's quite revealing to the government's priorities when they're in favour of equality of funding for private kindergartens without making demands. It shows which priority they give. I asked the question twice in the reply card change, and no one answered the question, so I repeat: can the government guarantee that the 360 million. do they use to equalise the funding of private kindergartens, make it better to be children in kindergartens and not just more profitable to be private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1151	Should the representative make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1154	I would like to address the proposal that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1159	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1162	To the previous speaker, I just have to say that we answered the question. You just didn't like the answer. There's a difference between that and that. We have recently presented an equality report, which has been mentioned by several debaters here, and the Council of State has said something about the measures that are being prioritised in this budget. In addition, there are several things that obviously need to be further prioritised. I believe that we basically have equal rights in Norway today, but we also need to make sure that women and men have equal opportunities, and therefore it is important to work with equality and equality. A little bit of discretion: I sometimes think when I read things and listen to debates about equality and equality, that we forget a little bit about equivalency and become very concerned about equality, that we're almost going to erase differences. I get a little provoked when the big problems are that, for example. My four-year-old girl likes pink instead of blue and watches Barbie movies. And as a curiosity, I must be allowed to say that Barbie now goes out and saves the world, she becomes a musketeer and a pop star, though not exactly in the same movie. We spend a lot of time doing that. But as long as my daughter can put on her pink jacket and march in as managing director in her new company, put on her pink dress and invent the new green energy that we're going to live on in the future, or – against my will – put on her pink football suit and play top football and actually make money on it and have crowds, well, I don't care much about color. I am busy ensuring her the opportunity to choose freely. Norway has come a long way in gender equality, but we still have challenges that, after decades of gender equality policy, are still unresolved, and there could perhaps be some of the moderates in criticising each other. The government has chosen to focus its efforts on five areas of the gender equality message. We cannot accept that women are subjected to violence and abuse where they must feel safest, namely in their own homes. It must be that both girls and boys should be able to choose education and profession according to their interests and abilities, not according to expectations, and it may not be possible for us to have different health and care services based on whether we are women or men. We need to use the talents and resources of the entire population, and Norway needs more women as leaders, entrepreneurs and in the governments. We have had a debate on how to recruit women to directors and managing directors recently. So, our plan is not a single word about pink, but it takes on board quite important areas where action needs to be taken, so that we can get even a few steps further towards opportunities for everyone. I see I have some time left: then I would say that there are several people who deal with this with leave arrangements, and I am glad that the Council of State made it clear that leave is not a equality measure, but a measure to ensure that the children get time with their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1181	The budget we are discussing here today, and the debate in the Chamber today clearly shows that we have a government without implementation, with a partly backward-looking policy on which they stand alone. Take the gender equality debate: the Christian People's Party and the Left, i.e. the Cooperation Parties, stand together with the opposition to save the government's cut in the gender equality field. They stand together with the opposition and require a more active gender equality policy where the government does not have one, but consistently puts equality in reverse. Today's debate has shown that we have an equality minister who still claims that fathers will take out more paper, despite the fact that the figures show what we all know: cut in quota means less perm. The debate and this budget show a government that also does not deliver on its child hail lifts or on what is needed out there, but on the contrary looks at the growth of cows and does not take the necessary steps to improve quality. The debate and the budget show a government that stands alone here and is forced by the parties and the opposition to build more places – which is forced to implement what the Council of State has previously called "detailed tyranny" because the government has run from its promises of continuous admission. People are disappointed, and the bulk of the population will go on. We see a government that needs to kneel down to deliver the most important quality factor in kindergartens, more and better employees, because an overall opposition is tired of waiting for government training and lack of plan. We see a government that first strengthened municipal child protection after the settlement partners had negotiated it. All in all, this is a clear and recognisable right-wing policy of the government also in this area of the budget. In the area by region, Community solutions are not being used. It's taking Norway in the wrong direction, and it's not taking people's needs seriously. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Labour Party will support proposal No. 16 from the Centre Party and No. 17 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1196	Today, the Storting will adopt a budget that is good and that has become even better with the budgetary agreement we have with the Left and Christian People's Party. It's a budget that's good for those families that need us to see them and help them in their everyday lives. It is a budget that is good for children in need of child protection, with a strengthening of municipal and state child protection, where we point out that a number of measures have been put in place, both in terms of empowerment, foster home care and not least in terms of new child protection laws and the structural change that we have announced. It is a good budget for those children who are subjected to violence and abuse, and it is a good budget, I can repeat it once again, which has become even better. The Labour Party criticises the government for waiting for two years to promote a gender equality message, but I note that the Committee and the case-rapporteur, Anette Triettebergstuen, will wait until April before debating that big message. There is a growing awareness of gender equality in practice. It addresses the challenges we face in the field of equality, and gender equality challenges are not solved with more money for structures and bureaucracy and four weeks' paperwork. The challenge of equality we have is to combat violence and abuse. They are doing something about the educational situation, so that girls and boys can actually take the education to which they are qualified, and not from what expectations they have. These are the measures that we are taking in the field of work, and not least the measures that are also being taken in the health budget, which ensure that women’s diseases are treated just as well as men’s diseases. I look forward to discussing the gender equality message, but I want to make a comment about the feather quota. Martin Henriksen is what he is called, the representative who boasts – and I am very pleased that he says that today's fathers want to take more part in children's lives, and that they want to take out more cardboard. There's nothing in the way that fathers can do it today. According to the law, there is nothing to say that father or mother needs to stand by the employer’s hand and say how many weeks they should have. The government has valued the parental pension scheme for the children, because it is for the children's parental pension scheme. In the case of the cut to which the representatives refer, there are several fathers that take out more than 14 weeks compared to previous years. The arrangement of Nav that I referred to is one of three different arrangements. It is important to speak up that parental pension scheme. The fact that Mom and Dad can agree on how many weeks they will take is an freedom of choice that this government values.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1207	Just a little comment because equality is obviously the main theme of a lot of articles: the representative Haukeland Liadal asked a question at the beginning here whether there could be any mention of equality that had gone forward without politicians participating in it. Then I would like to refer to Martin Henriksen's post, which referred to the great revolution that had occurred when it came to helping the man at home. As far as I know, there are no quota regulations or regulatory requirements that have made it that way. It is simply the people themselves who have found out that this is a trick, and that this is a good way to work. In addition, girls and technology are mentioned. We have included that in the budget as an important area of activity. It started because two men – an employee in NHO Agder and an employee at the University of Agder – said we're missing out on a lot of good resources when we don't get more girls into the studies of technology. They then launched a campaign and an awareness-raising work — without extra resources, without political involvement — and got into a project that has resulted in a massive search for girls for technology. Now it spreads to the universities around the country. That initiative came on its own, without having to impose it politically. Yes, fortunately more such good things happen. They are the ones who are viable and really work – not the ones who are required by law. Explanation of vote: Proposal No. 16 from the Center Party is probably in many ways to open doors, because there's a legal thing lying there, but it's completely unnatural to vote against it. That is why the Right and the Advance Party will support that proposal. We do not support proposal No. 17 from SV, just to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1216	It is a pity that Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, entering the pulpit, finds reason to say that my and the Labour Party's observation that increasing unemployment, increasing climate challenges and increasing refugee challenges make people unsafe and make sure that the prospects are demanding for many in Norway, apparently a graveyard that we have to try to free ourselves from and lift ourselves out of. I totally disagree with that. In fact, I believe that one of the most important tasks of policy is to ensure that individuals and families in Norway are protected and can feel the security to make their own choices – and experience the freedom that the right-hand side is talking about so much. How else can we manage to see both the challenges that are coming and the ability to take action for the future? Many people today fear the future because they lose their jobs. They need a government that is capable of action and tries to counteract both increased unemployment and increased pressure that many people today feel. Instead, we have a government that is passive in the face of increasing unemployment, and which also proves to be involved in increasing the pressure experienced by individuals today, through example. the policy of the government in the field of working life. It is not Norway’s policy that meets the challenges faced by people out there. It brings me to what the debate concluded, namely equality policy. Here, I think the government is jumping over the systematics we see, and the structural conditions that make us still a society of diversity in very many areas. Instead, the government leaves this to each individual — this gets people to sort out themselves — while we believe that one of the policy tasks is actually to help people really get the opportunity to make their own choices, whether in education, employment or family life. It is ensured by the arrangements that we have called for. I'm recording that Solvency Horne is absolutely not worried that fewer fathers are now taking out their share of the father's quota, and that the withdrawal is going down. I register that parents today have to wait until 2018 before we can achieve a growth in fathers' withdrawal from parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1228	Part 1 of the debate has thus been concluded. The size continues with Part 2, which relates to the budget chapters of the Framework Area 3, Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1231	They have shown it again: cultural policy is not a focus of the current government. Similarly, the cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left – as at the budgetary procedure one year ago – have also used great efforts to correct several of the worst. These are the artists' choirs, the framework conditions for music and choirs, festivals, theatres and museums. The cultural budget is also very keen to create room for tax cuts. In fact, we need to go back to 2009 in order to ‘comply’ with the low proportion that goes to culture above the state budget. The ambition of 1 pst. is abandoned, the gap is increasing, and it becomes a demanding, but equally fully necessary and important job when a new government in the future is going back to the 1st track. It's just to admit it, with today's government, there's going to be less and less money for Culture-Norway. For every year that goes with this government, cultural actors throughout the country lose millions of dollars in relation to the Labour Party's budget and offensive plans. It will require his wife – or for that matter, man – who comes after this government, to give the cultural field the status it had deserved. The budget for 2016 was in many ways a jump and jump-budget without a clear red thread, but with a strong blue line where the eagerness to find money anywhere other than on your own budget is stronger than ever. The future Culture Norway should be for everyone. This is why the Workers' Party's alternative budget is characterised by strengthening loved ones and good cultural arrangements that benefit everyone: the cultural walking stick, the cultural school bag, the culture of leisure clubs and youth homes, the cultural map of youth, the culture of prison and the new national system of childhood culture. This is a political act taken to ensure the income of the labour of performing arts and culture workers and not least to ensure that everyone has access to cultural experiences throughout the country. The cultural sector has been calling for more predictability for many years. In the field of music, we managed to create a system that ensures predictability and professional environments for almost the entire field of music – the much-discussed and debated node system. The Workers' Party has always wanted to strengthen, evaluate, make the scheme available to more people and take in more music genres. The government chooses to cut and transfer money to the Council of Culture, which in the next round will create unpredictability for large and small festivals throughout the country. It means more bureaucracy for the individual festival that was in the scheme or that would have been put into the scheme. It means less predictability for those in the scheme. Another unpredictable scheme against which the Workers' Party is opposed is the much-mentioned gift-enhancing scheme. It's amazing to push forward a system that shifts cultural power from politicians to private donors. It's a reverse method of what characterizes a modern democracy. No one, absolutely no one, has to be in doubt that private gifts are great. But the fact that it is going to trigger the public money is something we in the Workers' Party are opposed to. Forty-five million. the State is sponsoring the institutions which provide gifts. There's no artistic assessment, no geographical distribution, and we're witnessing a government that turns out to be uninterested in whether the funds come into a fair distribution process. Understand the one who can. The history of this government's cultural policy will be about new words and two new arrangements: the gift-enhancing system, as mentioned, but not least about Talent Norway, a company to contribute to a high international level of culture. Let there be no doubt: the Workers' Party is not against talent betting, but we should have seen so much that we had recognised the actors and organisations that are already working with children and young people in cultural life, given them recognition and trust through resources to work with the talents that we all want to get well. In 2015, the music equipment system was evaluated – for standing applause. One of the recommendations was to make the scheme genre-free, i.e. including, inter alia: corps and cows. The Labour Party welcomes this recommendation and provides an increased framework in support of the scheme, 10 million. kr. This is a system that supports municipalities in their efforts to facilitate culture – literally – with both classrooms and equipment. It's time we were able to facilitate children, young people and adults who practice their talent, or who find their talent. There is no suitable exercise room for a rock band to spend evenings in a bomber room or in a basement room. It'll be a little bit like kicking football in an uphill hill -- most of them had gone after one exercise. Voluntary activities and sport contribute invaluablely to good child and youth growth conditions, as well as to social community, quality of life and well-being. Statistics say that voluntary efforts can be valued at nearly 77 billion. kr, and that voluntary work represents nearly 140000 annual works. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party will increase the financial base for sport and volunteering by nearly 400 million. kr. In conclusion, we have gone from a time of a cultural vision that essentially meant distributed doses of culture from Oslo to districts, to a country, to a Norway, where it is possible to experience, participate and work professionally throughout the country. It has been a struggle to bring about the importance of cultural policy, and we intend to continue to fight for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1255	The Labour Party is once again trying to turn the cultural debate into a question of a share of the budget, of percentages and of money, and once you've gone into that madness, we're going to talk a little bit about money. Sometimes when you discuss, you talk about toy money or monopoly money, but there's money that actually exists. I think we're talking more about -- we have to go further into the fictional world -- fantasies; there's 750 million missing. kr on the Workers' Party's alternative budget, for the proposals they propose, has no effect in 2016. Then it doesn't help much to stand and talk about 400 million. kr in addition to this or that the budget is 500 million. kr larger. So my question to the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal is, where is the Workers' Party going to pick up the money they're referring to in the alternative budget? Should they cut the cost side? Are they going to increase taxes more? Or are they going to spend more oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1262	There is no fictitious money in our alternative cultural budget. Nor is it surprising that the Workers' Party spends more money on culture, sport and volunteering than on government. I understand the need to go into technical details, but the signature from us has been willing to spend more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1267	We have to go back to the Workers' Party's alternative budget. This isn't about us wanting to make money a topic, it's the Workers' Party that wants it. We would like to talk about both gift-enhancing schemes, talent schemes and record bets in libraries and everything else we actually do, which is about the content of culture and not shares and percentages. But it's a fact that the Workers' Party is missing $4.75 billion. kr in the next year’s budget because neither the financial tax nor the changes in the interest-rate reduction rule will have any effect in 2016. And then you subtract 4 billion. which you spend less on the expenditure side than the government. That leaves 750 million. kr, which does not help to ensure that the Workers' Party's alternative budget for culture is 500 million. kr larger than ours, because that money does not exist. So once again I wonder, where are you going to pick this up? Should you cut the cost side? Should taxes be increased more? Or are you going to spend more oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1272	In my article I am quite clear about where we have said no to part of the arrangements that the government is introducing, part of the arrangements and arrangements that we are not in. With regard to the technical details to which the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas refers, I do not share his experience or perception.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1277	The representative did not talk so much about press support, but I already know what the Workers' Party believes about press support – that it is rewarding in the production of Norwegian newspapers. Every three dollars of this press support goes to one group, which pays $7 million. kr in return for not doing any of the world's things, plus that they've paid 11 million. kr for the repurchase of shares. There are large sums that are then taken off the press stand. Then we see that Arne Strand has gone off as an editor in the newspaper, but acts as a political commentator, and then I believe that you work for your salary – or the remuneration you get. Is the Workers' Party comfortable paying $7 million. kr over seven years for someone who doesn't do a job within Medie-Norway? And is this a political governance that the Labour Party thinks is good in the future too?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1288	I share the concerns of the representative Ib Thomsen about post-paid schemes that we have seen gruesome examples from Medie-Norway. There are many signals that we can send out from Stortinget to the media, but we can also look at devices that can mean something for any future termination benefits. As of today, the Progress Party and the Right are in government, but we would like to engage in a dialogue on far too high termination rates in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1293	There's one thing that I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding, and that's this refusal, or this allergy, almost, that the Workers' Party has in terms of private money into the culture. For the Christian People's Party, private money is not dirty money, but we are very careful to state that private money must not be at the expense of public money. The gift-enhancing scheme, for example, which the Workers' Party is very opposed to, is for as long as it comes in addition to high government grants, and it must in some way be an important prerequisite here. But what is the Workers' Party so concerned about when it comes to private money into large parts of cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1298	I can confirm it for the second time in this Chamber today: Private money for cultural and sporting life has always been welcome also in the Workers' Party. We've never been against private money. But what we are opposed to is the principle that private money should govern public money. And that's exactly what's being rocked by when you talk about the gift-enhancing system -- no geographical considerations to take and no artistic considerations to take, only rich uncles living in certain parts of the country, bring with them public money, $45 million. kr for 2016. That is the principle we are opposed to, not the private donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1304	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1307	A long and demanding budgetary round is about to end. There has been an extra demanding round this year, which will always be when assumptions change significantly along the way. I am pleased that the budget for the Ministry of Culture, even after such tough priority rounds, still has a clear profile and is a clear commitment. We can also say for 2016 that there has never been so much money spent on culture. Of course, it is important, but what is important is that it is a good budget. It is a budget that has room both for continuation, for correcting bias, for innovation, and for new initiatives. What is even more important is that the measures taken through the last budgets to target money use are also fixed in this budget. The government is committed to using the efforts of the cultural budget to trigger and support the involvement of individual cultural workers and fireworkers, to trigger further co-financing from businesses and individuals, and to ensure that our citizens can have access to good cultural experiences wherever they live. As important as the size of the budget lines is the certainty of the performance of the use of money. There is no simple matter of clear answers in a phase, but several evaluations have been carried out in recent years, both in the cultural sector as a whole and in some parts of culture. These evaluations give us some good feedback on how it should or should not be done. We're trying to follow this up. An important step in cultural policy is to facilitate the establishment and development of a wider range of environments of competence, even in other parts of the country than around the capital. This will lift us as a nation and strengthen our recruitment from all over the country. We in the Right are pleased that there is now finally an incentive scheme for film production. The government has thereby removed an obstacle and contributes to Norway becoming the venue for several international film recordings. Even before the scheme was adopted in Stortinget, we have been told that a large production, the ‘Snowman’, is being recorded in Norway. This is a concrete and positive response to new policies. It will be exciting to follow the scheme in the future and not least to see how those who come here to make recordings deliver assignments and skills to existing film environments in different places in Norway. Also in 2016, the government will provide an incentive to those who are actively working on co-financing from business or other private individuals. The gift-enhancement scheme is further stepped up to 45 million. kr, and it has been a pleasure to visit actors who can tell how this scheme has contributed to the lifting and funding of new projects. In 2016, the scheme is extended to literature as well. The Node Point System has been evaluated over time. Festival-Norway has been invited to recorded meetings. Both evaluations and recording meetings have clarified that the system, which was targeted and effective at the time it was introduced, no longer has the desired function and performance security. It was therefore absolutely necessary to follow up the feedback with the change. As I said, the government and we in the Right are concerned with accurate measures. By introducing this group of festivals under the auspices of the Cultural Council, we have taken the necessary steps to ensure an arm's length distance from the politicians and to obtain a regular cultural evaluation of the actors. At the same time, the majority of the Committee recalls that the festival grant scheme must be set up in such a way as to continue to facilitate spearheads both within genres and regions. Festivals with regional co-financing must be given priority and a certain predictability must be facilitated through multi-annual grants. I am pleased that, through the committee procedure, the majority has brought together all the former focal points institutions under the same allocation regime. It creates trust. Here it should be noted that the Kortfilmfestival in Grimstad has correctly moved to the Norwegian Film Institute, but through it will be subject to a film professional assessment of its grant applications. As a result, they also receive a similar treatment. The node scheme had expired on date and was replaced by an improved and forward-looking festival support scheme. Festivals are exciting and often large meeting places for people. However, the government is also occupied by free meeting places in everyday life. The establishment and development of the meeting place function in the public libraries is an important objective of this government and has thus been a priority action in the budgets over time. Through this we achieve living meeting places where literature has a central and natural function and space. Debates and behaviours of different kinds are also naturally associated with this. VAT compensation for voluntary teams and organisations has for several years been the main order from volunteering in Norway. This budget also increases the provision for this. In addition, the government has raised the framework conditions of volunteering as one of its main initiatives for 2016. Simplification for organisations and, not least, free access to the Voluntary Register are concrete measures that make it easier for the many volunteers to concentrate on the goal of volunteering instead of spending a lot of energy on bureaucracy and reporting. This is in line with the Right's overall idea that we should facilitate and trigger commitment and efforts in voluntary work. VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities under the direction of teams and associations is another system that is accurate and has had enormous growth in recent years. It has been challenging to set the right sum to this, as it is the applications year by year that determine the volume. Since the deadline for applying has been so late in the year, it has not been possible to adjust the sum before the individual year-by-year budget. The government has followed up and provided full compensation every year, as well for 2015. But since this is decided so late in the year, it has nevertheless created some uncertainty for those who have applied. The Government has therefore amended the date of application until 1 March. This will provide answers to the amount of the application at a much earlier date, thus allowing for the adjustment of the amount in the revised budget. In this way, teams and associations could get the final answer at an earlier date. That's good. The scheme is important and contributes to the installation of installations at an earlier date and at a lower cost. Cultural policy, and therefore the budget, is slightly more than the allocation of items or technical solutions. Therefore, it is also important that this cultural budget has been provided with fresh money and is a sound and sound budget in total. In fact, cultural investment is a community-building project. We see many examples of how cultural activities in challenging times build bridges, create cohesion and build local communities together. A few weeks ago, I was at the performance of Color Games in Bergen. As a result of cooperation with the schools, the cultural schools and the people's rock group Real Ones, we experienced a fireworks show where children and young people from all over the world and a dozen countries bubbled over with enthusiasm. The various actors performed songs, dances and music based on their own culture, put together a wonderfully harmonious whole where all countries, including Norway, had their national contributions. Rarely have I seen the husband of social building across culture and heritage. The best of all was that a crowded hall in Grieghallen was just as diverse. A local bank had purchased 300 tickets that were distributed to asylum seekers at newly established reception in the West. I talked to some of these. This was their first experience outside the reception. A large community, balls and shower, and a great concert – there can hardly be any idea of a better start at the integration period for many of these children and young people. Together across – culture is a societal project. This budget, which provides opportunities throughout the country, which facilitates artists, performers, organisers and audiences, is a good budget and contribution to the project. Finally, knowledge, pride and identity with our own culture also provide the basis for good social participation. It makes us safe about who we are, and what is important to us. It is probably also the best and most important basis for a successful meeting with other cultures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1348	The NRK carried out a thorough examination of the gift enhancement scheme in October. Not surprisingly, it shows that the private people say that the scheme is not triggering or decisive. Few, if any, new ones had arrived. Nevertheless, the result is that the richest are getting richer. I allow myself to ask the question: does not the representative Harberg see any negative aspects in the fact that the gift-enhancing scheme does not take into account geographical areas and that one does not control the public funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1355	The gift-enhancing system has been a success. It has been a pleasure to travel around and meet many of these institutions and get them to share in the scheme. I have heard many stories about how this has helped trigger the fact that private people and/or businesses have been involved in raising projects that otherwise would not be fully funded – it has been great to hear. I've been around all over the country and I've been involved in sharing out of the gift-enhancing scheme. So as of today, they are well spread. There's a good deal of breadth in which kind of institutions get, and I'm absolutely sure that the Council of State, just like we, will follow how it evolves. If it gets a huge impact page, an arrest will take place, but there is no reason for concern about it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1362	I understand that it is fun to travel country and beach around and have money in your backpack and a close and close bond with the private donors. Nevertheless, I allow myself to ask the representative: When he travels around, can he give us examples of new museums and new donors who have arrived after this scheme was started?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1367	First, I have to correct a misunderstanding. I haven't met, as far as I know, a single private giver, but I've met those institutions that can tell with pleasure that now they've got a new project, now they've done something that they've planned for a long time. In dialogue with several people who can contribute, they have said that now they have made them contribute something more because they know that when the gift enhancement comes to the top, they can get this project completed and fully funded. And that's exactly what's the point of the whole scheme: to trigger the extra that makes projects implemented, projects that we didn't have the chance to finance over the state budget. But in this way, we're making sure that there's more money for cultural activities, that there's more things that come true. It's a wonderful feeling to be part of making sure of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1372	Last week, this Committee held an important debate on Norwegian gambling policy related to a proposal for a representative promoted by Mr Aasrud and signed. There I asked a question that I never got a good answer to. Five new lotteries shall be created on the outside of Norwegian Typing and the exclusive rights model. Does the Right and the Representative Harberg think that the five lotteries will trigger more gambling, so that it will not exceed the profits of Norsk Tipping? Or will we expect to see that sport, culture and volunteering will be less frequent in the years to come because of these five new lotteries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1377	First of all, it's important to realize that it's basically not five new ones, because there were lotteries outside of Norwegian Typing. That is what caused a case to be brought against Norway in relation to the international legislation to which we are obliged. We had some alternatives: we could say to the Pantelotteriet that sorry, it's over, we can't have you outside Norwegian Typing because it's now raised a case about it, and then we have to put down the Pantelotteriet. Now there's been an effort to get the ExtraFoundation into Norwegian Typing, and then a system has been created, so that lotteries like Pantelotteriet, which are not addictive, and which don't have the big stakes – that is, small lotteries – can be on the outside of Norsk Typing. We're happy to be able to facilitate this. If we're going to guarantee who plays on which games, we're going to have to follow them into the rooms, and that's a policy Right won't stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1389	The representative, Harberg, was in his post several times involved in ensuring the success of schemes. He was also concerned about having arm's length distance from the politicians. The draft budget refers to the node arrangement: ‘may prioritise some festivals rather than others as unfair and random, and may not be based on professional and objective criteria’. At the same time, the government allows the Festival Games in Bergen, the Festival Games in North Norway and the Short Film Festival in Grimstad to remain on the order. I wonder whether the representative Harberg, or the former rapporteur in Grimstad, could explain the professional and objective criteria on the basis of which exactly these and no other events remain on the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1402	This is directly wrong, so we get to fix it first of all. No one's in the node arrangement. It has ceased to exist under this budget. Instead of moving the Short Film Festival in Grimstad to the Council of Culture, it has moved to the Norwegian Film Institute, so that it is treated with the other film festivals and with a cinematic environment. That's quite natural and absolutely correct. Then it's true that the government suggested that the two biggest festivals, that is, those that had the largest sums, should be left on the cultural budget. After the vote tonight, it's not like that anymore, because the majority of the committee has moved them in with the others, so that everyone is treated the same way, as I said in my statement, according to the same criteria. We think that's going to be a good order. We think it will be a new, good festival support scheme, which can also be opened up for more people to come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1409	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1412	Cultural policy shall contribute to enabling all people to participate in and experience a diverse cultural life of high quality. A rich cultural life is best served by a cultural policy, the aim of which is a cultural life marked by freedom and not by political governance, which the Workers' Party wants. Good cultural policy is based on the unique self-esteem culture has for the individual – to experience our common cultural heritage and to strengthen the sense of identity, belonging to society and communities. The government's cultural policy is based on a desire for a strong and independent cultural life. There, the government's gift-enhancing system has been thoroughly discussed. There is no doubt that it has been a success. There is no doubt that there has been more money for culture in Norway, at least in view of the feedback we have received. It's true, as the Labour Party says, that we can't control where you get gifts in the country, but at least we want to be involved in managing that we can contribute with the private ones. It is important to stimulate art development across the country. We have seen under the Labour Party that there has been a lot of attention about Oslo. We see that there has been a lot of attention around the Council of Culture and its location. We have a message in Stortinget for the treatment of public broadcasters, a work that has been started by Stortinget, which we consider very important. The NRK is a very important institution, both media policy and, in particular, cultural policy. I believe it is important that the NRK, as a major player, increases its share in external production companies throughout the country, which we did not see under the Labour Party's governance of cultural policy. It was based on Oslo west and Marienlyst. At the same time, it is important to limit the ability of the NRK to use its robust economy paid by the community to weaken the independence of free institutions. That's why it's important that we see the whole thing now that we have the opportunity. I know that the license is not to be dealt with – at least not if the NRK is to be licensed or not – that is the size we are dealing with today. But what about using the license to enhance diversity within Medie-Norway? The government's proposal to modernise the media policy instrument through increased non-discrimination of media, regardless of the technological platform, is crucial for the future of the industry, where platform neutral media is important. The cultural field, as we have said before, is important for the entire population of Norway, but it is also important for cultural life. Ensuring a comprehensive range of bets and using relevant forces in the field of culture is important, where voluntary children’s and youth organisations, orchestras, the artistic assistant system, corps, choirs — yes, almost the whole of cultural life — can continue to develop within their framework. Cultural life itself has great resources and invaluable experience. I would also like to say something about the Defence Corps. I know it's going to be and is a discussion if we're going to keep these corps in Norway. There is no doubt that the Defence Corps in this country is also a resource for the communities around it. They are used by local corps and have a competence that I think we need to take an extra discussion about when that time comes. The Kunstnerassistent scheme has been proposed for several years by the Society of Young Artists, and now we have it in place. This scheme turns out to be good, catching up on new talents that work with old talents or with the existing visual arts. That's just the way we have to think, and don't set limits. The Cultural Council has had a lot of political talk from this hall and from the rest of the country. They have also got a bit shut by the artists themselves because it has not been predictable – you have not been able to relate to it. What we want is to treat all artists in a non-discriminatory way, that it has to be predictability. Now this government has said that the Cultural Council is going out to the whole country and is being established elsewhere, outside Oslo – a progress that I could not see when the Workers' Party ruled cultural policy. Bingo revenues for voluntary teams and organisations have been and are important. It's a turnover of 4.5 billion. kr within the bingo. There the government parties have said in the budget that this is something we will go through to see if the scheme is accurate enough, whether the scheme is the way we want it to be in the future. This is also something we have to look at when the message of gambling comes. Culture needs good infrastructure. The Mining Museum at Kongsberg has planned a new building. The project has been in progress for five years, and 25 million have been used. kr to this project. There is no doubt that the need is present. But then it would have been nice if also the municipality of Kongsberg had viewed it as positive that they built up and strengthened the mining museum, and helped to pull it together. Then it had, I think, also been easier for the Storting to be part of this powerful promise. Then we have the Kunstmuseet Nord-Trøndelag, which has an important role in the dissemination of art throughout the county, but has not had a museum teacher to convey this good art, which I think is strange. Why has the municipality not taken responsibility? Why has the county not taken responsibility? It's amazing when we know that young people of all ages in Trøndelag also need to experience good art – yes, as an alternative to the trombone rock, I don't think that would have been stupid. Own resources in culture have been debated in the media for a long time. There has also been an initiative by SV, which I would like to welcome in this debate. It is important that culture finds its own place even within its own means. We see that there are cultural institutions that have up to 70 pst. self-earning — it varies from 0 pst. to 70 pst. We see that culture in Europe is developing on its own income. We see that they are not just working against politicians to get more money, they are also working to get their own income in the form of events, creative shops, café and restaurant operations and ticket sales. Of course, the state should facilitate an external cultural life, but the external cultural life is not created by the fact that the cultural institutions are 100 pst. State-funded. There is no reason to believe that Norway must cut its cultural budgets drastically. They've had an increase in the last ten years. But it's healthy to go through and see how the cultural institutions operate today and in the best possible way. Finally, I want to get into the national anniversary 2030. There the committee unanimously said in a comment that they think that the job of Stiklestad National Cultural Centre in the form of their preparation for the 2030 anniversary is fantastic. They also say that that's the way you should work to gather the whole country on this anniversary. So there's no doubt – in 15 years, we're going to have a solid anniversary that's just taking up this important anniversary year. So in conclusion, the advance party is also against gold-edge pensions, as the one we have seen that our country has paid out to its former editor. We think it's a misuse of state resources, so that's something we're working with the Workers' Party now to avoid the big media houses doing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1445	As a representative from Tøndelag, I must first say that I am completely incomprehensible that there is a need to have some alternative to the trombone coat. It reminds me of a quotation from a well-known trombone rocker – if the president allows it within artistic freedom – which can sum up the post of Ib Thomsen: “Yes, they’re going” on the fox. I would also like to correct a clear misunderstanding in Ib Thomsen's comments that it is first with the proposal to increase external share to 40 pst. That there's going to be a bet on this for the NRK. The external share has increased steadily over many years, so it needs to be corrected. Ib Thomsen's colleagues said before the election: You've paid the license for the last time. They promised that the licence would be removed. How's that work going?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1454	The work of the government with the Right and the other cooperation parties is going very, very well. This is what we see in particular in the development we have had in the cultural budget. We also see this priority we have given to new culture in Trøndelag, i.e., in addition to the trombone rock, by prioritising an audience at the Kunstmuseet Nord-Trøndelag. This is going on a long way. When it comes to the NRK licence, the Progress Party believes that we are not quite in the target yet. But this is a discussion that we're going to take forward in Stortinget, but based on the platform we're running after now, it's very clear that there's a discussion that needs to come in two years. But we still have faith in the troth coat, just like that, in the end, as well as other artistic features in the troth layers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1463	This day I went to the Home page of the Advance Party. On 12 November there was a notice with the representative Ib Thomsen. I thought the title was very good, because it said, «Don't underestimate culture». It was a fantastic headline, but the headline was probably more about not underestimating the culture's own ability to make money without relying on public support. My questions to the representative Ib Thomsen are: At what level does the Progress Party believe that public support should be compared to self-employment? Are there areas of cultural life that the Progress Party believes should not receive public support, and are there possibly parts of cultural life that do not receive public support, which should have been given it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1470	This debate has been going on in the media, which I was also involved in my post, on the initiative of SV. Is it the money to control culture, or are you going to look at other possibilities for self-income? As I also said in my post, the income of the cultural institutions in Norway varies from 0 pst, i.e. 100 pst. State aid, to 70 pst. It's a cross of thought. What are those that have 70 pst? self-income, do, as the others do not? I think we should take this debate. I still believe that culture should be publicly funded. If the representative hasn't discovered it, we have an agreement on the budgets and have had it for a few years, and we agree quite on the priorities of culture. So from my point of view, I see it so that it works very well, and I have faith in this cooperation in the future and the development we've had within culture. There has never been more money allocated to culture than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1477	Even the Centre Party agrees that we should have an exchange of private and public support in the field of cultural actions. So I think it will vary very much depending on what kind of genre and in what area it is, how much state support it should be, and how much private it should be. The representative Thomsen was involved in this in his article and also in encouraging more people to get more money sails – that's an easy way to say it. The Progress Party says in its configuration that they will simplify and strengthen and provide a stable framework for voluntary action. They moved the application deadline – the deadline for applying for VAT compensation has now moved to the spring, on which the representative Harberg was involved. I wonder if the representative Thomsen also believes that it would actually have been even more predictable and easy for the organisations if there was a regulatory arrangement in front of a framework regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1484	Well, I agree that this self-esteem thing around the country can be very different. I see that self-employment is easier where more people live. That is exactly why I think this discussion is important. I don't think we're going to set an absolute percentage for self-employment, but I think that all cultural institutions have something to reach out to, and then you have to find the solution in terms of letters of allocation and discussions with the individual institution. So the question was also about this with rule-driven appropriations. After all, the Central Party has also been in government with a finance minister who did not cheer the most when proposals for rule-driven appropriations came up. We have the same challenge – it’s not a big cheer when the Stortinge suggests rule rule. So we're dealing with the arrangement we have today, and I think we're still fulfilling the appropriations by having 100 pst. in the case of the refund scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1491	I'm not so lucky that I'm on the Culture Committee during this period, but I'm on the Defence Committee. That's why it was very interesting what Ib Thomsen said about one of the basic structures of Norwegian culture, one of the basic structures in terms of access to competent people spread across the country to conduct music education and music dissemination, namely our military corps. They've always been concerned about the Left, and we've been with and saved them many times when the Defense hasn't thought they're that important. Now I'm really glad that Thomsen's representative also mentioned them in his cultural contribution. So my question is whether the representative Thomsen can guarantee us that once the Secretary of Defense has gone through the Chief of Defense's assessments, she'll park too well the proposal to shut down the military corps.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1497	The party of progress has also been involved in the Defence Corps and how important they have been to the entire institution of Defence. We who have been inside have always appreciated meeting the Defence Corps. It has also been important for local teams and associations around the country, and I have been able to do so afterwards, that they have a competence that they spread across the local art environments. So we fully agree with that. Then there was this guarantee, then. It's tempting to say yes, but I can't. But I'm going to tell the representative from the Left that this is clearly something the Progress Party will work for and have worked for. So I hope we can do a job together in that area. I hope we get to that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1504	Then it's a good thing about the defense's music. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1509	The points of agreement agreed between the parties have been explained by others. Like the Right Party and the Advance Party, I am pleased with what we have achieved. Many of the bets are in line with our alternative budget, and that is of course good. And then I can reassure the representative Ib Thomsen that Bekkevold has not forgotten that we have both a cooperation agreement and a budget agreement. Culture and spirit life are fundamental to human life, and it is an important public task to use cultural policy instruments to ensure the growth and development of Norwegian cultural life. The country has a major and important responsibility to contribute to both qualitative and quantitative growth in cultural life. The media in Norway are in strong transition. Falling storage rates of paper products and increased digitisation require active media policies. Press support is important for a number of paper newspapers throughout the country, and they are therefore not satisfied that the government is using the opportunity to cut it. We proposed in our alternative budget to correct this cut. The objective in the broadcasting field is to maintain a good public broadcasting offer. Therefore, the NRK must be ensured predictable frameworks. The Christian People's Party proposed to increase the NRK licence by 50 kroner in addition to what the government itself proposed. The corpus movement is the largest movement of the people after sport, and it is important to both preserve and renew the national value of the corpus. That's why we're proposing to strengthen ensemble support in the Norwegian Cultural Council to give a boost to choirs and music ensembles in the free cultural field. We're glad we've got the government parties on this. The artist survey has shown that there is a strong need to improve the economy of artists. Involvement of artists, together with a number of other instruments and state schemes, is very important to achieve this. Unfortunately, the scholarships have had a real downturn over a long time. We proposed to increase the rates and we also had an impact on this in the agreement. We really appreciate that, but the artists themselves appreciate it even more, because this is very important. We also proposed to introduce a new art assistant scheme for young and newly-trained visual artists of 6 million. kr. This scheme will contribute to the transfer of experience and competence between established and newly trained artists. We believe that the arrangement for such a scheme should be established in close dialogue with the artists' organisations, including the Young Artists' Society. The aim of the Actor and Dance Alliance AS is to ensure the rights and revenues of the added dancers and actors between external addition conditions and assignments, as well as to facilitate external employment and work for the build-up of skills and knowledge of the conditions of stage art. The evaluation of this scheme has been able to demonstrate the very positive impact of the measure. We proposed to grant a little more money than the government suggested, but I am very pleased that the government is continuing this arrangement, and that they themselves added some funds to this arrangement. For many years, the ancient memory association has been engaged in an important voluntary work to preserve some of our most important cultural heritage. We proposed to grant $5 million. kr in operating aid – as for the museum – to the Pre-Memory Association for the professionalisation of parts of the establishment. Through the operating aid they will inter alia: be able to strengthen dissemination, maintenance and refurbishment, object management and research activities. This is an important area and a neglected area, and I hope that in the future we can devote this more attention. Finally, there is one thing that has attracted particular attention. These are the focal points festivals and the fact that this budget is involved in the closure of the node scheme. I must say that I am somewhat critical that this matter came as part of the budget and not as a matter of its own. I believe that this matter could have deserved a separate debate in Stortinget. However, when we will now vote in favour of a liquidation and transfer to the Council of Culture, it has a background in the remark that we are with the government parties on. For the Christian People's Party it is important to ensure the festivals continued support and not least predictability. We now suggest some leadership of the Cultural Council, which is largely in line with what the Director of the Cultural Council has been concerned about. I think this will ensure a professional and good management of festival support in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1535	I will first and foremost praise the Christian People's Party for a good and important effort to improve the cultural budget for next year. There must be no doubt that we read the agreement that the Christian People's Party had made, with great tension, and we see clear traces of the Christian People's Party this year as well. The result will mean too many around the country, and too many parts of cultural life will mean a lot. Since the Christian People's Party has also put its primary positions in the budget position – as the artists' team and several others – we also see that it is clearer that in the field of culture we could achieve even more in common. Has the representative Becquerad done the same thing – because there are things he also refers to here, which he would have done more on and spent time on instead of negotiating small details – and could you see even more on the growth and promotion of cultural life together with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1542	Thank you so much for that question. I also remember what it was like in the previous period. It wasn't a very listening Workers' Party at the time when the Christian People's Party made recordings of the cultural budget as well. But I am pleased to see that there is a large majority in the UK for various measures that we have received in the budget, and I am pleased with what was proposed in the budget by the government itself, which we agreed to, but also for what we, together with the government parties and the left, have managed to get in. I am also very pleased with the openness it has been in the committee to look at the possibilities of moving things within its own framework, which includes: Makes a famous gilding theater in Sonja Mandt's home state, Stella Polaris, now appear to be able to continue its operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1549	That's a key to the use of the money, because we're not in it. We've granted $1 million. NOK of the stock item, 78, while you have taken off the music ensemble support. What does that mean for the post from which it is then removed, and the representative Bekkevold can also say something about why you did not choose to take 1 million. kr that would save Stella Polaris, not 500 000 kr that will not mean that they must reduce... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1554	Without revealing internal discussions between the cooperation parties, when a budgetary agreement is in place, all four parties must agree on any changes that may arise within the framework. I have to say that I wish one could have managed to locate for this not by taking away the ensemble support, which, of course, goes beyond some of what has been the Christian People's Party's priorities. But we still think it was so important to continue Stella Polaris that we chose to take that discovery there, and then we just have to live with the fact that the ensemble support was somewhat reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1559	The representative Becquerad was inside the press stand. He is also concerned about the use of public money and whether it is correct. I had a similar question for the Workers' Party. When we see that the big media player pays $7 million. Is it the right use of press support and government money? Is there any other way we can strengthen Medie-Norway than to give an open check, almost, on what they can spend the money on, or does the representative think the solution might be that we look at who needs, and not give carte blanche to all the media houses?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1566	To the specific matter: I said well, when it became known, that it was very unmusical. I should perhaps have used even stronger terms, because it is quite unheard of that newspapers that need press support, nevertheless have such a practice – which they have now fortunately said has not been passed on to any employees within that media house. But that such an agreement was made was very unfortunate. Nevertheless: Press support is important, not least in order to ensure a wide diversity in the field of news dissemination. Press support not only goes to the major media and the meaningful newspapers, but is incredibly important not least for No. The 2 newspapers out in the regions, out in the counties. I know that the press support is accurate, and I would like to continue it, regardless of what has happened. But let me be very clear: it was very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1575	I'm very happy to hear that answer. It's clear that we're in line with what we're going to spend state support dollars on, and not least the use of money. If you take the large amount of $7 million. SEK – 1 million. DKK over seven years – plus the buy-back of shares to SEK 11 million. NOK, we're up to $18 million. kr. Imagine how many journalists we could get for an amount of the size of doing a good journalistic work around the country – and not least in our country! Maybe our country would have got a promise if they had strengthened their journalistic corps, instead of paying someone who doesn't. I thank you for the answer and think that we can have a good dialogue on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1583	There was probably no question in this, but in the case of press support, everyone knows that it is going to be a topic of media policy in the future as well. Otherwise I agree with much of what Ib Thomsen said. I still register that the government chooses to cut the press support. We have disagreed with that and have tried to fix it. Then we will have to take that debate further later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1590	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1593	The centre party, as we know, is not represented in the family and culture committee during this period, and we have therefore not been given the opportunity to comment on the vote, but we have a full mention of culture, sport and media policy in our alternative budget proposal, which shows an increase of 266 million. kr more for cultural actions than the proposition. I will therefore use the speaking time to present our main priorities and proposals. The centre party stands firm on the course we went to elections two years ago, a third cultural summit in which funds and measures were to be turned against a local cultural promise. The Centre Party is committed to the cultural life of local communities, close to people, and cultural activities that help to reflect cultural diversity in all parts of the country. Let me therefore stress the following: the main step towards contributing in a positive direction to local cultural life is to increase the free income of municipalities, so that municipalities are given financial autonomy to prioritize local and regional cultural activities, such as libraries, music and cultural schools, sports facilities and cultural houses – including the organisationally-owned cultural houses. That is why we are proposing an increase of 6 billion in transfers to the local government sector. Compared to the government's draft budget. Voluntary teams and organisations are an important pillar of the Norwegian social model. Annually, sports teams assume responsibility for significant investments in order to realise badly-needed sports facilities that local authorities do not have the economy to cope with. We are therefore disappointed – and also surprised – that the government and the support parties, without special justification, are now rejecting the former proposal of the Centre Party to make the added value compensation for sports facilities from a framework regime to a regulatory regime – despite the fact that the Committee has previously unanimously supported the proposal of the representative of the Centre Party and asked the government to come back to the matter in the budget. By the way, we got an explanation from the representative Thomsen – I will add that. The Party considers that it is important to ensure predictability of sports and associations taking on such promises and therefore promotes the distributed proposal. We believe it makes little sense that the state should make money on voluntary efforts in local communities. The aim of the centre party is to provide organisations with full relief from the VAT burden and reimbursement of VAT expenditure on purchases to the voluntary enterprise at the head of the krona. That is why, in the alternative budget, we are proposing to increase VAT compensation for organisations. We are also concerned that a greater proportion of the support to non-governmental organisations is making gambling money dependent. For this reason, we have proposed to strengthen the grant of basic support to the child and youth organisations over the State budget. The Government and the Parties have decided to remove the Node Order. Only two nodes were left – which the Committee has now transferred to another item in the budget. The centre party regrets this and feels that it is unfortunate that this is done with a pen stroke in the budget without any wider debate on the impact or assessment of different options, on which the representative Bekkewold was involved. The central party sees the need to take a closer look at the scheme, but we are opposed to the draft budget and have therefore proposed to continue the 2016 scheme pending a review. The centre party is dedicated to improving the framework conditions for the free field within different genre expressions. In our alternative draft budget, we are therefore increasing, among other things. the organiser’s support, the ensemble arrangements and the festival support. We also increase the music equipment order and make it genre neutral. The government is expanding the gift enhancement scheme. The centre party questions this scheme. It's great that museums and cultural institutions get gift support, and we like to see more of it. What we're asking questions about is the distribution effect and the coincidences that the scheme brings about. We see the need to get an overview of how these gifts are distributed at government level, and will ask the government to provide an evaluation of this scheme. I am promoting the proposal of the Central Party. There's a lot of resources to develop plans for the archive on Thinset. We believe that the co-location of archival activities would have been very important, while the project would develop new jobs in a region that is not flooded with opportunities. We deeply regret that the government and the support parties do not seem to think this is an important measure. Since time runs out, I do not go into the media field, but refer to our alternative budget and that we are occupied with a broad media diversity. I am promoting the proposal of the Centre Party to raise the broadcasting fee and expect to be able to get closer to the NRK and this debate in connection with the treatment of the general broadcasting message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1621	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien then brought up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1626	Gambling policy is an important part of the field we are discussing today, and it is also an important part of the budget debate. There was a big game debate in the hall for approx. a week ago, in which the Central Party parliamentary leader stated that this government, that is to say the Right-Fremskrit Party government, had endangered the exclusive right model. I should like to hear a little bit about the way in which we have endangered the exclusive model.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1631	Unfortunately, I did not follow that debate and have not spoken to the parliamentary leader about it, so unfortunately I cannot answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1636	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1639	When the Minister of Culture presented his cultural budget, there were many things Left was pleased with. We are e.g. Very pleased that the gift-enhancing system, which left stood alone in this room for many, many years, has now become a part of cultural policy. When we created our alternative budget and started negotiations with the government, it was important for us to raise the areas that were the losers under the so-called cultural promise. A field that was one of the great losers under the Cultural Promise was the economy of the artists and the living conditions of the artists. That's why it was important for us to raise both the artists' tips and the artist's economy. As we see this, this is just the beginning of a lift of the artists' living conditions. I hope that the Council of State will follow. It's not that artists live by status. They live on the economic framework conditions they have. I would also like to stress that the comment on the actor and dancer alliance is important for building the income base of the professional artists we have in Norway. The second field that the cultural promise evaluation showed was a major loss was the field of literature. Both libraries and literature have lost during lack of investment over a long period of time. For the Left, it has been important to lift this area. That is why we are very happy that we have strengthened the literature field within the Cultural Fund by 7.5 million. Dr, and that we can today make proposals to increase the framework to NORLA to apply to Norway as the main country in Frankfurt. I will come back to that in a separate post, but I will promote the proposal on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and have an intense desire that there should be a unanimous decision in the Stortinget. I hope the other parties join. It has also been important for the Left to lift the Sami language area. We are happy to get up the support for Sami newspapers, but I would also like to stress that getting up Saemien Sitje, which is an important Southern Sami cultural house, is important during this period. This is one of the things that the previous government never put out in life. We have to realize that in this period. The next field I want to raise in the few minutes we have is the multicultural field. At a time when we see that building cultural identity is important to many in a multicultural society, we need cultural arenas that are not always linked to religion when we are about to engage in cultural communication. That is why we must have cultural houses that preserve the multicultural without it being linked to the support system we have today to religious communities. That's why it's been important for us to lift the Melahuse in Oslo just like such a arena and like a spearhead, which I think will lead to better integration and have significance in the fight against radicalisation and other challenges that we see in society. There is a proposal to go through the Archive Act. It's not going to be supported by the Left. But I want to mention again our desire in the field of culture when it comes to this, namely that we should actually have combined a cultural law that has no meaning, an archival law that one here wants a review of, and a museum law that we should also have, with a library law. Then we had a meaningful cultural law, which had given some wings for the cultural work in Norway. I understand that this is a much larger problem, but from the left hand side, I think it would have been a boost for Culture-Norway. In addition, I would like to mention that there are many other important cultural matters under other departments, such as: the promise we were given to cultural memories within the Ministry of Environment, which I believe is important to realize. Otherwise, Left is very proud that we've got the Filed up to go, and that we got the appropriations in place. I'm not going to tell the whole story about why it's called "dead," but it has a clear connection to a patio that was the first where it was allowed for gay people to meet. It was called "Keiva" because it was in the House of the Left. So the link between the left-hand history and the scroll archive is pretty clear, so we had to complete it. Otherwise Pál Farstad will come into Kristiansund and opera house in a later post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1660	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1663	The Node Point Scheme is proposed to be phased out through the State Budget proposal, without the Storting being given the opportunity to discuss alternative ways of fulfilling the role for which the scheme was intended. I allow myself to ask the representative Skei Grande: what consequences does the representative see that this will have for example. The feast days, which the representative knows well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1670	It's going to lead to a conversion of the festival support, and the node mindset was created in a very different time. It was made in a time of extremely fewer festivals, when festivals had a very different position than they now have, and when there was a big discussion that there were too many festivals, and then it was important to get to the hub, so that we got the competence together, so that there were not so many festivals. Now we love that we live in a country with many festivals, and maybe we need to support them in a different way. What is important is that the Storing sets out some clear principles for how that support should be. I understand that we have done so through the budget paper. We are not going to control all the support schemes too much. Now this support system has been so long that we might have come to a new level, where we need to find other criteria. But for the Left, it's important to have both the local split layer and some engines within Festival Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1680	I thank you for the answer at the same time as I see challenges in converting the support scheme and adding it to the Council of Culture, precisely because it is quite difficult to instruct the Council of Culture in its allocations. Does the representative Schei Grande see any challenges in putting this support to the Council of Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1687	Yes, of course it's challenges. It's not that easy for politicians to control detail, if that's what they really want. To mention some of the challenges that we have today: in the jazz field, we have a whole series of festivals, and saying that Molde is the only festival that brings quality, and that brings this out to others, I think it's one too simple analysis. In another area, literature, the Lillehammer literature festival is all alone about being a major player in that field. So it's clear that it's going to be easier to evaluate the literature field than the jazz field, which has a lot of actors, but maybe it's good that we base some professional criteria, and then use them for further work. But we're going to raise festivals to a level, and when they reach that level, we can make other criteria. It's important that people know what criteria they're going to follow, so we have to make sure to have those assessments in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1694	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1697	Art and culture are very important to most of us. We use literature, film, visual arts, dance, theatre and music as entertainment, to disconnect and process impressions and emotions. Art challenges us to see the world and ourselves in new ways. In addition, studies show that culture is health-promoting. Those who consume culture in some form, experience better health, are more satisfied with their lives and have less anxiety and depression compared to those who do not consume culture at that level. Because art has a self-esteem and a great value for us as individuals and as a society, we need a policy that makes art of high quality created and not least made available to everyone. Just as a starting point, last weekend the Swedish National Government adopted its own art and cultural policy programme. That's where we show our commitment to the cultural field in the future. With this programme and the SV's alternative budget, we have been shown our cultural policy in a way that we are not allowed to make through comments in a position of a committee in which we are not now represented. With the red-green government, we got a historic increase in the cultural budget and a big boost for Culture-Norway, but it wasn't completed, and big bets still have to be made, not least to give more access to art and culture where they live. In the SV's alternative state budget, we have taken care of this. Here I want to pay particular attention to the public libraries. They make knowledge, culture, literature and values available to all groups in society, regardless of social, economic and geographical divisions. My 3.5-year-old grandson loves the People's Library, and it's great to see that even so little kids enjoy what's an important cultural institution, which is free and accessible to everyone. The libraries thus contribute to a more democratic and more open society. People's libraries are the cultural institution most used by the population, and it is one of the most important inclusion venues in the community. Half the people use the libraries. Nevertheless, we have seen that there has been a real decline in appropriations in recent years. SV therefore continues in its alternative budget the multiannual library commitment of 1 billion. DKK over five years. The most important challenge for cultural life today is, in the SV's view, the economic situation for artists. Here we thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for the changes that have made it, after all, a better uplift than it seemed to be for the artists. While other wage groups have had an increase in wages in recent years, the report shows the autonomy of art and the economy of art a real decline in artists' income over time. This shows that it is necessary to do something to ensure that artists get a decent income, so that they can continue to create art that can challenge and that can delight us. SV's aim is for artists to have the same conditions and rights as other workers. We have made a first promise in this year's alternative budget with an increase in both the number and the rates of artists' scholarships and fees. I would like to mention in particular the acting and dancing alliance, which aims to ensure the rights and revenues of the added dancers and actors. An evaluation has demonstrated a very positive impact of the measure. SV has therefore requested a grant of 7 million. kr to be able to hire more actors and dancers. Today, artists, insofar as other freelancers who are self-employed, come out worse than normal employees in terms of social benefits such as parental benefits, sickness benefits and pensions. It's a big risk to choose to bet on a life as an artist. SV wants to change the legislation to give artists the same rights as other workers. This can be solved in different ways, including: through a health insurance scheme more similar to that of ordinary employees. This is strictly something that does not belong in the cultural budget, but it once again underlines the importance of improving the living conditions of artists. In any case, the struggle to improve the economy of artists will be a priority for the SV in cultural policy over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1721	Not so long ago, Vice-President Vegar Solhjell said in the evening post that he was ‘lei masset’ about money for culture, that the ‘cultural debate is drowning’ on money issues, and that instead we need to have a debate on the content and what we want about cultural policy. We have also heard today that it was about shares and percentages instead of what it really should be about, the content. Is it more important to talk about the content of culture than about the proportion of dollars and the amounts of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1728	Yes, I share Solhjell's view that it is more important to talk about the content. It's one of the starting points for SV to now just like that – I think – the first political party has its own art and cultural policy program. There we are discussing the content and what we want culture to look like in the years to come. Today we are discussing the budget for culture for the coming year. Then it's natural to talk about money and have a greater focus on that part. But yes, I share Mr. Vegar Solhjell's view that the most important thing is content.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1735	First, I have to tell the representative, Kvifte Andresen, that I think there are a lot of parties that have set up cultural and art programmes. The left has at least made a lot, but now we're very old. My question is about libraries. I think the representative Andresen said so much about libraries and literature. Nevertheless, we saw that this was the great loser under the so-called cultural promise. When the new so-called urban government was in place in Oslo with the support of SV, the first thing you did was to put a new main library on hold. It had to be almost a people's uprising to push the plans into place. Now it's going to be a shopping mall with books. Are these efforts linked, or is it just a bad conscience that is driving the alternative budget of SV now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1744	Bad conscience? No, no, no. People's libraries have been a big effort for SV for many years. It was also clear in the negotiations between the red-greens that it was now the cultural base wall and the people's libraries in particular that were waiting. We see the recommendations that came with the Enger Committee, and where it was culture had become a loser, when you couldn't bet on everything at once. So I don't want to spend a lot of time discussing Deichmanska and who might have pushed out what was a solution there, but we see, of course, that we have a lot of challenges in many places. There is in no way a bad conscience that makes us want to bet on the public libraries and now add up to large appropriations for a five-year period ahead, which was also there as a guide you wanted from the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1751	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1754	Art and culture are an essential part of our lives. The Norwegian people know how to value the artistic and cultural offerings and even participate in voluntary cultural life. All the statistics show it. At a time when cultural life in Europe is experiencing tougher times, at a time when our country is facing an extraordinary and demanding situation, we still have a clear guarantee of cultural life and volunteering. I'm proud to present a 13-bn cultural budget. kr. Never has any government here proposed to grant more money to art and culture. In addition, the grants from the gambling surplus in Norwegian Tipping and the appropriations from counties and municipalities come. But culture isn't something you can just afford. Culture is where people are, a rich and diverse cultural life, characterized by breadth and quality, is created from below. A good cultural policy requires a broader perspective than the size of government appropriations. We stimulate growth from below and less control from above. We continue to simplify and renew, we provide more power-proliferation and less political detailing. In line with the recommendations of the Culture Survey, we emphasise culture as an industry and strengthen the opportunities for entrepreneurship. That's why we're betting on Game out in the world, a pilot program for increasing the export of computer games. More cultural activities also provide the basis for more art and culture. We are strengthening the regions. We're strengthening the libraries with development funds amounting to 175 million. kr during this period. The intersection of time, from latitude to peak, is further strengthened in the budgetary agreement. New measures for the cultural school system strengthen the cultural life of the regions. We continue the talent work in Talent Norway, and we have launched a pilot project to support the good work being done in the country's cultural house. As part of the government's employment package, cultural institutions in Rogaland and Hordaland are particularly favoured in 2016. We're increasing the gift-enhancing scheme from $30 million. NOK 45 million. expands the arrangements for music, literature, performing arts, visual arts and cultural construction also outside the museum sector. This can trigger private contributions, which together contribute 225 million to cultural life. kr. The government will help more artists to live by what they create. In the budget, we strengthen art halls and associations, exhibition fees, musical ensembles, the acting and dancing alliance, art criticism and author's fees. I am very pleased that the budget agreement with our cooperation partners in Stortinget also strengthens the artists' points and provides increased support to bet on the artists. We put in place an incentive scheme for film and series productions and have received signals that more recordings are being added to Norway under this scheme. We have almost doubled the grants to the regional film funds and established a comprehensive national film dissemination policy. We also introduce zero rates for VAT on electronic news services, which equate paper and e-news and remove one of the main barriers to media development. The proposal has an estimated annual proceeds of 350 million. kr. The exemption shall be implemented as soon as the ESA has approved the scheme and the rules have been laid down. Also in 2016, we simplify and improve the framework conditions of volunteering. VAT compensation to non-governmental organisations is increased to 1.3 billion. kr. This year we removed the registration fee from the Voluntary Register. We are now also proposing to remove the annual fee, so that the register is free of charge. The system of ‘lordless inheritance’ is in place for children’s and young people’s freedom. The budget agreement increases the limit on the deduction of gifts and the ceiling on the exemption of both employer’s contributions and payroll obligations, which amounts to 40 million. kr for 2016. The voluntary involvement is invaluable in Norwegian society – I find reason to underline it. It's a very important work, under which the government supports, and which we meet gets even better conditions in the future. I am pleased to say that this has once again become a very good budget for volunteering, for cultural life, for the media sector and in the film sector. The government has presented a cultural budget with clear priorities, a budget that protects the traditions of cultural life and at the same time stimulates new innovation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good work and constructive cooperation on the cultural budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1778	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1781	Governments often talk about the principle of maintaining arm's length and building allocations on professional criteria. The strange thing is, there's a lot of talk going on. The Node Point System was to be closed because it was necessary to maintain arm's length, but the arms were not longer and the principles were more firm than that two festivals would continue to retain the direct support. In this year's draft budget, which we are discussing today, there is a significant increase to the Kistephos Museum. I am aware that the Council of State is in favour of the Kistepos Museum, because of its friendship with Sveaas, but the Council of State must nevertheless be able to respond to the professional assessments and neutral criteria on the basis of which the Government and the Ministry have doubled the grant to the Kistepos Museum in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1788	To be very clear: When I am in a mood to deal with a question, I also see no reason to answer questions that are related to the specific case. So I would like to ask that my Council of State, which is responsible for it, may come back again and answer that question during the afternoon/evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1793	We are very aware that the Council of State here is involved. Nor do we ask for subjective assessments of the Kistephos Museum, but for a simple answer to what kind of criteria have been used for that type of allocation, and why Kistephos has been chosen over other comparable museums. We've tried to ask the Council of State, the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, about this. He could not answer the question and was not familiar with either the matter or the rules. What kind of criteria are used here? Can the Councils describe these? And what state council actually has the political responsibility to have taken this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1800	It is the Minister of Knowledge who is my Council of State on these issues. I was very familiar with the question that was asked to him — a written question, or perhaps it was an oral question — answered at the time by his local councillor, Elisabeth Aspaker, who worked when the minister of knowledge was on leave. But I'll contact him. So I don't want to answer a question where I am involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1805	In this case, the President must give the Council of State the right idea that she may not answer that question when she is incapacitated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1808	We must respect the fact that we cannot get an answer here, but I want to say that it is important that the Storting gets an answer to what kind of criteria have been laid down and who is responsible for that decision being made politically. We can do another thing, the node arrangement. It was basically important for the government that the node arrangement was terminated on the principle of keeping an arm's length distance. How, then, can the Council explain that all node festivals, except for two, would lose status? What does the Council of State really think about the fact that the Stortinget has opposed the government's own proposal and put all the festivals under the Council of Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1815	Once we have evaluated the node scheme, it is based on a strong desire to follow up the evaluation that has been carried out. We've had a lot of recording meetings. We have had written evaluations, and it is very clear that the node scheme works in some cases, but there are also many areas where it does not work. That is why we have taken this up and put it into a larger context, and that it should be considered to have an artistic/cultural assessment, which is what the Council of Culture is doing. The basis for the two institutions being developed has nothing to do with the arm's length distance principle, but that's because they're very large. The party games in Bergen are twice as big as, for example, The oil fasts, to use it as an example, in terms of funds or equivalent. That was the basis for it. I live very well with the proposal that the Storting now seems to adopt today, that the node system – the system as such – be phased out, and that all these institutions are transferred to the Council of Culture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1820	To the node festival scheme: the first question is why the government chooses to make this change only in the budget. Does it seem that it did not deserve its own debate in Stortinget? Question 2 is: We have a majority comment that puts very clear leads and assumptions that must be in place before this scheme is terminated, and we also ask the government to come back to the Storting, preferably in revised form, with the criteria to be in place when the Council of Culture takes over this. I just want an assurance that the government has understood that remark, and that it is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1827	Firstly, we have announced in the past – and we have been very clear – that we will come back to the budget proposal with an assessment and a follow-up of the evaluations that have been carried out in relation to the node schemes. So we've been very clear about this in the past, that it's not going to be a separate case, but that we're going to get back to this in the context of the budget proposal. Secondly, of course, we read all the comments that are coming, and I can reassure the representative that we have also had a dialogue with the Council of Culture, and that we have asked them to arrive at the various criteria that must be taken into account. Of course, we want to draw the cultural council's attention to the leaders that Stortinget has put on them here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1834	I should have asked for something else, but I must start with the node system I too. What has been so good about it has been worked together between the state, the municipal and county council contributions that have come in. So I have to ask question no. 1: How does the Council of State see that she will ensure this very interaction between the public contributors? So we've discussed a lot of this with VAT compensation for organizations, and we in the Center Party are dedicated to making the conditions as much as possible for volunteering. There are some people who cannot apply for this VAT compensation scheme, and they are those who own and operate their own cultural buildings. Therefore, the second question whether the Council of State considers it reasonable for those who own and operate their own cultural buildings not to have the right to apply for the same VAT compensation as, for example, those who own and operate their own cultural buildings. the sport in the case of new buildings, constructions and alterations, which are not within that scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1842	With regard to the issue of focal points, we have said that we require, of course, cooperation between the different regional authorities — the county council in this case — and possibly private individuals who have participated in the funding side of the focal points festivals, and not least voluntary cooperation, which has been essential for many of the focal points institutions. It's not that because you're being transferred to an art and cultural assessment in the Cultural Council, it's going to have to be removed. On the contrary, the Culture Council, of course, can also, with regard to the festivals it provides when they apply for it, very well put forward clear indications of cooperation at a regional level, and also cooperate with others for the future. So there I don't see anything contradictory. [[The President clubs.]] In the case of...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1847	It may take the next reply from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1850	In the budgetary negotiations with the government, the Left has prioritised the artist's living conditions and literary purposes, and now we have started building scholarships – we have been focusing on this for years. Our interpretation is that this is the beginning of a construction. So my question to the Council of State is whether she has the same opinion as I do in terms of what we have now done to add to artists' scholarships, and that the bets that go on the artists' living conditions are just the beginning to meet the challenges of what was the legacy and the sins of the so-called cultural promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1855	I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande that there is a great need to also raise the living conditions of artists. This is underlined in several documents, not least in the latest artist investigation, which we received this year. There is a great need to put this even more on the agenda. There is also a fact of nine out of ten applications sent to the Council of Culture is rejected. So it's very important that we now focus on getting more focus on the artists' living conditions. We can do that by increasing public funds, and we can also contribute to simplification, so that those who live by it have the opportunity to better identify the systems and also benefit from Innovation Norway and other types of instruments available. Here I think we are in line: yes, we need to increase public spending, but we can also help to make it easier for them to access other resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1863	This fall we have had a strange debate about money versus content. It should be completely unnecessary to say it: Increased appropriations are never a goal in themselves – never. That's what they give room for culture, which is the goal. There is a clear difference between blue-blue and red cultural policy. The cultural budget we are discussing today testifies to a government that has no ambition on behalf of the field, which is clear that it is not a priority. The Minister for Culture continues in his speech today to boast of a real increase in the budget, while claiming that money is not important. What she's not saying is that the growth is so small that it's eaten up by the growth in wages and prices. It actually means cut. This government prioritises everything other than the cultural budget. They've got $200. kr more to route with than we had when we left. So it becomes a little bit more to everything, but at least to culture. The promise of culture is mentioned in the debate today. The cultural promise was not just about money, as someone wants it to, and cultural life misses it. The cultural promise was a recognition of art and the self-esteem and importance of culture. It was a period of major and absolutely necessary reforms in the sector. We made culture more accessible to more people. Access to culture shall not be a class question. Under the Cultural Promise, contributions from private donors also increased, because the Cultural Promise inspired and gave private belief in a field of increased stability and a state that set up. The blue-blue government left the cultural promise. Budgetary cut was wrapped in a rhetoric about freedom reform and arm's length distance. It does not give freedom to a single artist to experience large cuts in the artists’ tips – as they did a few years ago – the export support schemes or the support for film production, on the contrary. Furthermore, cultural policy arms are no longer than and the principles are not more firm than the fact that the proposal for scrapping the node scheme would really apply to all festivals, except for two. I am disappointed that the government has not accepted the Workers' Party's invitation and reasonable proposals for a broad and comprehensive review of the festival support scheme, to see how we can take care of what was the goal of the node festival scheme. The cultural sector is also not created for blue-blue market ideology. Nevertheless, the government is running. Artists should be entrepreneurs, as if it were something new. The big project is private contributions, as if someone were against it. What we are opposed to is that private contributions should determine where state aid should go. There is a division of funds between cities and countries, between institutions that are already in a strong position, and those that are not. The working party will go another way. We were not finished with the cultural sector when the blue-blue took over, on the contrary. We have bigger ambitions for the field, and we're going to stay where we left off. It also seems in this budget, where we spend over 0.5 billion. more than the government of culture, volunteering and sport, in sports facilities where the pursuit is large, and on a predictable VAT compensation scheme, which gives sport the predictability it deserves. There we stand alone, with a clear priority within the cultural budget. We're betting on the artist economy and the artist pay. The working party has the largest package in the budget. And I think it's disappointing and sin on behalf of young visual artists that it's in this room when we vote today, actually the majority to put in place a very good order, the art assistant system, but the government parties have forced the cooperation parties in place here. I think that's a shame. We want to give artists the opportunity to concentrate on creating what they're going to share with us. That is why a stepping up of the artistic economy in this budget is important, but the government parties are not going far enough. We're in the process of making cultural policy we're going to implement in 2017, when we get the power to do it. We work with the actors in the field of culture – and not against them. Then I would like to inform you that the Labour Party will vote in favour of the Left's proposal, no. 1 and the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Centre Party, all of which have been made available to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1886	That's what the president notices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1889	Today I want to talk about two things, but I have to draw when I get back, to fix some of the mistakes in the previous article too – but I get to get back to that. I'm going to talk about the media and games, because after years of unstructured and random game policy, we're cleaning up now. Much is done, another grip is taken a little later here today, when the Extra game becomes part of Norwegian Typing's ordinary portfolio, and more is to be done. I've looked a little bit for ways to avoid talking about the eight red-green years, but the president has excused me: in the game field, unfortunately, it's not possible. We took over an area where the entire exclusive model was at risk of chance and discrimination. The ESA opened a case against Norway, and if we continued to treat this policy in a delicate way, the exclusive right model would be a mere story. The right and government have saved the exclusive model through consistent policies and necessary clearing work. But we're not going to go there. There is a big message with an overall review of game policy, for there are still some threads that are flickering in the wind. And more importantly, the wind brings with it dark clouds. That's about 60 pst. of all games played over the Internet are played by non-regulated providers offering their games from abroad. At the same time, we see that the share that picks out the traditional games like Lotto and the tipped up game is going down. When you put the curve of traditional games run by Norwegian Typing, on top of the curve of online games, where more and more people choose other suppliers, you see quite quickly that this is not sustainable over time. The Norwegian Tipping result will go down, the profit will be less in crowns, the volunteers will get less money. This we need to find means for and meet, and we look forward to discussing it when the game message comes. Some people seem to think that it is just to turn off the Internet or ban advertising sent from stations abroad. Unfortunately, it's not like that. It takes a lot to succeed in stopping advertising that has been lawfully sent from other countries. The blocking of the Internet has a certain success in North Korea, but today's technology is very easy to get around for a normal Norwegian user. It's also an element in that there's a little bit of a concern about blocking things that we don't like. It also raises questions of principle. I'm sure we can find good solutions in the future. We have to do that before they force themselves forward. It's preferable to have control and make careful adjustments rather than neck after because we get to a crack point where it really starts to rush. Further to the media area: Here I have also turned to try to stay away from a backward perspective, but it is not to avoid pointing to the eight years of emergency – yes, almost concrete resistance – when it comes to platform-neutral low-value news media from the red-green government. As for the work of the red-green government, for platform-neutral VAT exemption for news media, zero is a figure that is worth noting, because that's exactly what happened: zero and nothing. Now, in record time, we've got this in place. The notification has been sent to ESA, and this may be the main contribution to facilitating the necessary changes in the media field. This is perhaps the biggest change in this area in many, many years, and it is also welcome from an almost total Norwegian press. The media transition is going enormously fast, including in the field of broadcasting. Therefore, it is important that the work on the current public service broadcasting message becomes part of a modern and forward-looking policy that facilitates both a strong and balanced NRK and a commercial public broadcasting environment – in principle throughout the ether, both television and radio. The work on the public broadcasting message must be seen in conjunction with two other important processes already in progress: the expert committee to work out advice on the future funding of the NRK, and the Media Multiplicity Committee to present its work in spring 2017. In a changing media world, it is important that we see it all together: framework conditions, funding, diversity, language, cultural dissemination, news dissemination, debate and democratic development. The government is leading a modern media policy for the future. In the last two years, more has been done and more processes have been started than in a very long time before that. This work – which was started overtime, but which we are working on – we will one by one complete with great enthusiasm and eagerness, because in the process of renewing and simplifying the government is committed to solving the important tasks today, while at the same time arming Norway for the future. In the media and games field, we do both the clearing job and are able to meet the global reality – better rusted and with ambitions to be in front instead of nagging after. It is our opinion that policies that facilitate the future are better than old-fashioned solutions to yesterday's problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1915	Before the next speaker, the President will give the floor to the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to make a proposal. So this is proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1918	It concerns proposal No. 16, which was presented in the previous bloc of the cultural debate. It shall be stated that the Storting asks the Government to follow up the ‘prescription obligation’ to always assess the child’s etc. – instead of ‘the obligation imposed by law’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1923	Then the representative has enriched it, and we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1927	Unfortunately, it is a fact that culture's share of the state budget is falling. It has done so, evenly, since today's government saw the light, and, in addition to having lower ambitions on behalf of cultural life, the government is also making major changes, creating considerable concern and unforeseeability for Norwegian cultural actors. With the changes that are now taking place, and with the steady decline in the cultural share of the state budget, it will be very demanding to start working to the red-green level again – with the ambition of 1 pst. of the State budget for culture. It is discouraging that we have a government council that is the first one in many years that has actively called for a reduction in ambitions on behalf of Norwegian cultural life. We also see evidence of this in this debate, because I have seen no sign of any ambition on behalf of the Norwegian cultural life of the representatives who have been up on this pulpit by the government parties. A little visit to Kårstein Løvaas, who was up and claimed that the Workers' Party was struggling with fictitious money. It's a little strange claim all the time we base our estimates on the Ministry of Finance's answer to our questions, and one can't exactly say that it's a department that's struggling with money in time and out of time. So that's some weird statement, I'll say. We have seen a debate this autumn that has been marked by the fact that some people have called for less focus on money and more focus on quality. I have to say that I don't understand that these two things are going to be the opposite. For us in the Working Party, this is very closely linked. We want increased investment, greater ambitions for Norwegian cultural life, and that also means increased government commitments through increased appropriations, because we know that it will also contribute to increased quality. Over eight red-green years, we saw a huge investment in Norwegian cultural life, both in investment in cultural institutions across the whole country and in investment in activity. We saw a huge increase in cultural experiences across the country, and we saw a huge increase in people who had the opportunity to participate in both organisational and cultural life. So for us, just increased appropriations and increased quality are closely linked. This is also true in terms of volunteering. We have a voluntary package of our own in our alternative state budget – which I have been involved in previous budget debates. Last autumn, there were strong reactions from large parts of Norway to the government's proposal for a government budget, where there was a huge cut. This year we see that although the government has made a voluntary declaration, they use the first opportunity – as was the draft budget for 2016 – to leave their own declaration of volunteering. Voluntary organisations do not receive any increase in free resources, and at the same time there was an increase in the management of the funds provided. In the case of the basic grant for children’s and youth organisations, the government does not increase it, despite the growth in the number of organisations and in the number of members. That's why we're proposing in our option to increase the grant by 10 million. kr. We're also proposing a plus 100 million. kr in VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations, an increase for volunteer centres of 20 million. kr in relation to the budgetary agreement, an increase in the contribution to the Free Fund of 2 million. kr. All of this we are doing just to strengthen the possibility of volunteering to achieve its own ambitions. There will be time after this article to get into the media budget. That's what I'm going to do in my next post. But I just want to say, like Anette Trettebergstien, that the Workers' Party intends to vote in favour of proposal No. 13 from the Centre Party, as it means the same thing as the Workers' Party has called for – an increase in the broadcasting fee of 45 kr more than the budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1951	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1954	We're left with a cultural budget that reverses bets that have been made over many years, and that it's going to take time to rebuild. Bit by bit, we see that it's being built down and changed. The mantra is ‘arm length distance’ – and it is used when appropriate. When things get close, hurt and difficult, it is forgotten, because in comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left they have used the short arms. Here, next year's operations are managed with clear political leadership in selected fields and named sites. We think that's quite right, but it's not entirely consistent with what's being said. A clear example of that is what we were about in the line change, the grant to Stella Polaris. For this, the Workers' Party allocated 1 million. kr in its alternative budget, while representatives Eidem Løvaas and the Fleet of Sandefjord rejected on the contrary that it would be followed up by the Right. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left came in and tried to save the local free theaters of the Vestfold representatives, and despite this reluctance from the Right, they got 500,000 kroner, which is probably not enough to avoid cutting anyway. We see that as half a victory and a result of our proposal. But this led to a cut in the music ensemble support, which is also unfortunate. The Workers' Party is also concerned about the future of the Cultural Spaserstick – the scheme to provide good artistic and cultural experiences for the elderly. Last year's discussed government usage. Then the nurses could sing, and one wanted to remove professional artists from the scheme. Here too, the Christian People's Party and the Left stopped an unfortunate solution. The government is now testing itself again by removing the reporting obligation for the use of the funds, which they have already transferred to the county municipalities. That way you weaken the system once again, because it obviously has to go away. The possibility that the money is spent on other things is now present, and therefore the Workers' Party wants to maintain the reporting obligation. So to the gift-enhancing system, which has been brought up here several times: Monday, December 7th, we could read that councillor Widvey believes that the gift-enhancing system is a success, and also here in the hall the scheme is hailed from position. It is in stark contrast to the study that the NRK has done on the scheme, where it is described as a failure, and that those who want to spend the money on culture are already doing so. Sigrid Røyseng says: «Sponsors know about the arrangement, but it does not affect them.» The gifts are usually provided by foundations that have already stated in their purpose paragraphs what the money is to be spent on, and at least it does not contribute to more giving. But those who have a strong position get, as we look at Lillehammer. In the budget we can see that only 11 pst. the income of the museums comes from the scheme. There's a big difference between where they are and what they get. In the view of the Workers' Party, money is okay, but there is a system that shows that the market thinking that the government is running is not working here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1972	Art and culture move and touch us in a way that we don't always find words for. We're talking about values most of us want to have with them all our life, from cradle to grave. I'm burning up to get the good bets on the culture of the elderly and others who have trouble visiting ordinary cultural offerings. This is where the cultural walking stick is at its core. As most people remember, the government in the 2015 budget proposed to phase out the popular ‘spare stock’ scheme. The reaction was so strong that the government had to reconsider what they first proposed. All of them saw the total unreasonableness that vulnerable elderly people would become balancing posts so that the government would be able to sign out significant amounts in tax havens to more well-off people. But it is the case that older people or others who do not readily come to the offers for their own machines need and right to artistic and cultural experiences as much as anyone else. Good cultural experiences are preventive and health-promoting for the body and mind, not least for the elderly and others living in institutions. Culture and various activities are fundamental elements of a comprehensive provision of care. A forward-looking ageing policy must show far more understanding that we are whole people with social, existential and cultural needs. Culture and care must play together in a much clearer cooperation that both stimulates and activates thoughts and emotions, for example. through artistic and cultural projects based on the individual's abilities, interests and life history. The Workers' Party is concerned that a fantastic scheme that the Cultural Spaserstock cannot be preserved in the years to come, with the arrangements that the present government has chosen for this scheme. One thing is to add the appropriations to the framework of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, but the Labour Party has noticed – as mentioned earlier here in the Chamber – that the government has now removed the reporting obligation for the funds. The intended use of the pot is therefore very uncertain, and the chance is great that the money can be used for other purposes. I would like to point out that in its alternative budget for 2016, the Workers' Party strengthens the cultural spaser stick by 50 pst., i.e. 15.4 million. kr. If the money is allocated over the framework of that department — it may of course be useful — they must be earmarked, or there must be a clear reporting obligation for the allocation, so as to ensure that the pot is used for what is meant by the cultural spa, namely to provide good artistic and cultural experiences to older people and others who need such an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1983	It is very gratifying that the budget agreement grants 1.5 million. kr to Kristiansund Church Kunst Kulturfestival. It is also gratifying that a joint committee insists that regional and district operations should be strengthened in parallel with the efforts of the Norwegian Opera and Ballet. I agree with the Committee when it says that through extensive cooperation between professionals and amateurs, regional and district operators are involved in building the cultural base wall around Norway. There is a need to invest in opera and cultural houses in Kristiansund, yes, more than ever for More and Romsdal and Kristiansund, a house to house the opera in Kristiansund, the Nordmøre museum, the Kristiansund library and the Kristiansund cultural school. The Workers' Party's comment in the budget, which points to that, is therefore joyous. Realisation of such a project, such a house, is particularly important for further development of the opera in Kristiansund, which has a firm place on the state budget and status as resource and competence centres for district operations. The city’s opera is a result of Norway’s oldest opera traditions with traces back to 1805, and since 1928 it has produced and set up a host of operas, operas, musicals, ballets and dance performances, including a wide range of Norway’s prizes and even some world prizes. But better facilities are required. The Kristiansund Opera has extensive cooperation with others, both cultural institutions and the school community. Young people participate on stage and in orchestras together with adult professionals and amateurs in interaction. This is how tradition, knowledge and skills in music theatres are handed over. In addition to the opera, the Nordmøre Museum has a keen need for new premises, and it is particularly positive that the museum and the opera have found each other on house issues, both in order to achieve synergies between the companies and for the audience and users of offers in such a house. Nordmøre has the institutions and the knowledge. Now they and we are waiting for an opera and culture house in Kristiansund that can help develop these institutions and this knowledge further for the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e1996	About one year ago, two serious gentlemen came out into the Stortinget hiking hall and told them that Højre’s group meeting had said no to Norwegian sport and the Right Town Council in Oslo’s plan to arrange an Olympic in Norway in 2022. The justification given was valid enough – the money could be spent on the width, and emphasis was placed on the need for facilities all around Norway. It's easy to agree that we need more arenas that facilitate physical activity. Inactivity is one of the major public health challenges. It was therefore with interest that I read the Minister of Culture's proposal for a State budget. Where was the money to contribute to more sports facilities? Yes, one could imagine that the government had thought that the Workers' Party's proposal to enforce the reduction of the claim of Norwegian sports teams on the state was a good idea. But no, there was no connection to our proposals, which would give 600 million. kr less in the aftermath of the payment of aid to the sports teams. And I'm absolutely sure that the volunteers, as we celebrate in the celebrations, would think it would be much more useful to spend the effort on activities than to fund interest on the loans that have to be taken up to cover the delays, pending that the games will be paid. There was no solution to reduce government deficits. The budget also contained no funds for new installations, despite the fact that it is a time when we could need employment around the Norwegian country. I expect the Council of State for its defence will say that the share of the gambling surplus in sport has increased. However, this is due to a decision taken at the National Labour Party meeting and presented by the Stoltenberg Government in the Storingsmeldingen on the Norwegian sports model in 2012. Yeah, I guess it wasn't quite unanimous. At that time, when the Progress Party was not bound by any economic framework, they would introduce the change faster than the majority. But this is not a response to the alternative use of the OL funds by the Right and the Advance Party – i.e. no money for installations above the State budget, and a government council that does not follow up a unanimous increase in return with a predictable system of VAT compensation. It must be a little awkward to be a sports politician from the Right and the Advance Party today and not have been implemented in their own government. But the proposals are also there today. It's just voting for one more time, so maybe it'll be an improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2011	Norway has a small language, a language that this room has made some courageous decisions to preserve. One publisher once asked me if I knew how many full-time writers it was in one of the world's largest languages, mandarin. Then the answer was zero. Last week, Åsne Seierstad's book on Utøya was named by the New York Times as one of the ten best books this year. This shows that Norwegian sakprosa is world-class. Per Petterson is the first Norwegian author to receive the prestigious IMPAC, the Dublin Prize, and he is again nominated, this time with ‘I refuse’. He's translated into over 50 languages. In October, Karl Ove Knausgård gathered almost a thousand listeners in Berlin when he launched his fifth volume of «My Battle» in German. And in the street here – almost so we can see it – lives one of the greatest and foremost current dramatists, who are most often played on the world's scenes, namely Jon Fosse. On top of this, there's a lot going on in film and travel. It's growing, and it gives a lot of opportunities for Norway. Now that we are in the forefront of literature in the entire book industry, it is important that we be able to have a lot of weight in this room behind an application that Norway should be the main cooperation country at the book fair in Frankfurt. Our neighbouring countries Iceland and Finland have done so with great success. I am very pleased that the Committee has merged on a note that allows NORLA to now send an application to become a cooperating country. And I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has expressed support for the proposal I have made, which makes it widely supported in this Chamber to give them the economic backing in it as well. The other countries that have been in the country have generally had 70 pst. State aid. With the decision we're making today, we're approaching the 60 pst. as they have said is necessary. They have an ambitious goal of getting to 40 pst. private funding, which I hope and believe they will be able to do, and which they have the prerequisites to do. The great thing about this project is that we are able to present Norwegian literature, but also that we have managed to gather Norwegian literature – publishers, authors, all contributors in the literature literature – into a common promise to get such an application sent to Frankfurt. And I'm really glad that we now seem to have broad support for the Stortinget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2020	I was actually going to start with Color Games, but I want to start where the previous speeches ended, highlighting our language, our literature, and not least Jon Fosse, who received the Nordic Council’s literature prize this year – well deserved. At the same time, however, we were also told at the meeting of the Nordic Council that Norway cuts support for Iceland, so that Iceland no longer teaches in Norwegian, and that the Norwegian language should not be represented in the new centre of Vigdis Finnbogodottir in the case of minority languages and smaller languages, where Norway should belong. But what I had prepared for was the increase in the number of refugees we are experiencing today, and the increase in unemployment, which challenges our society. Then it is even more important that we be able to use the power that is in the art, just to bring forward projects that have proven to succeed in both inclusion and countering fear of alienation. It is therefore very gratifying both that committee leader Svein Harberg was present at the party performance of Color Games, and that a unanimous committee ends up and raises Color Games, because it is a very unique project. It started 12 years ago, when artists were commissioned to launch a project during Barna's party game, where they had the dynamics between the professionals and those who were initially perhaps amateurs, and looked at the meeting between the two. It was then decided to visit a class of newly arrived refugees and asylum seekers. Since then, hundreds of children and young people from around the world — most asylum seekers and refugees, but also Norwegians — have met in a highly professional context, used their own cultural treasures and raised them. It's fascinating to see how close it is between the folk music of the different countries and how they meet. This contributes to mobilising both self-image and own resources and raising them, and it has major ring-fences in school performance as well. In conclusion, when we are in the process of breaking down, it is important to have good venues for breaking opinions and sharing news, and I cannot avoid saying – although I know you have it for treatment – that Norway has managed to produce the best public broadcasting environment. I think part of the recipe is that you have got the positive competition between a strong NRK with regional anchoring and a strong TV 2 based on advertising. I hope you take care of it further in the work that you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2031	Not unexpectedly, the representative Ib Thomsen took up the opportunity to look at cutting public support, possibly increasing self-sufficiency, for cultural institutions, and the inequality that exists within that picture. It rhymes well with the low percentage of government for cultural purposes. I am incredibly proud that public support doubled in the period with the government of Stoltenberg. Otherwise, I allow myself to quote one of the government's former state secretaries. Knut Olav Åmås said to the Evening Post – note the date – in October 2013 : ‘ Hopefully, in a few weeks’ time, the budget of the citizens will not reverse the proposed increase to the red-greens, which for the first time brings culture up to 1 per cent of the state budget. It would be both an unfortunate and unnecessary signal in a small and modest sector of major societal importance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2043	I note that in much of the debate that has taken place today, on the part of the Labour Party – which is the largest opposition party – there is still an attempt to focus on rhetoric, that it has come too little, and that one has taken too late the measures proposed by the government in the field of cultural policy. I just want to mention one two-three things that show the difference from that government the Labour Party was part of, and that sat for eight years. When they refer to e.g. the proposal on mediaism and the ability and willingness to do something, it was confirmed by the former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen that the previous government did not even try to do anything, take some action to try to bring forward proposals on zero VAT to ESA. I record that the representative of Grande has been strongly out in the newspapers and criticised that it is too late. Yes, the representative even suggested that I should get a hub in Brussels, so that I could influence and speed this up, so that things would go faster. I have not, because this government has had very good contact – we have worked closely together, both the Minister of Finance, the undersigned and the rest of the College of Government, to ensure that this matter should proceed quickly. And we've worked well with our partners in Stortinget. It is now helping that we may be able to find a solution in this case. Another example: I record that they have been in strong order before, and not least in the setting, why we haven't started the incentive scheme faster – and that after they've been sitting for eight years and driving this country and haven't even promoted a proposal to get this incentive system going. I think the voters at last relate to what a government does – and not what you jump around and say when you're in opposition. I can add with regard to sports facilities and VAT: when promoted the Workers' Party, when they put in government and had the Minister of Finance, with whom they had good opportunity to make proposals together, suggested that this be a rule-based arrangement? When did they do that? In fact, this government has provided predictability for sport by granting 100 pst. VAT compensation, as opposed to the Workers' Party, as in the years in which they were constituted by government, inter alia. in 2012 was unable to make proposals for 100 pst. reimbursement of the installation tax. These were three examples in which the Workers ’ Party’s criticisms do not stand up to believers. Here it's about keeping it a law, and that's what the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2059	It's time for some comments, and I think I'll start there as the Council of State ended, with VAT compensation for sports facilities. The representative from the Workers' Party was so very clear that it was terribly wrong when private money triggered public money. Yes, when sports facilities are built around them, there is a large proportion of private money that causes them to be built, and that causes VAT compensation to be sought – that is, private money triggers public money. This is what they are proposing to be governed – but it is so cruel if private money triggers public money! No, it's not that easy to get wise on what's the thread in this from the Workers' Party. So I'm surprised that they're doubting this percentage of the budget. I expect it to be true no matter how the budget goes – now we have a budget this year that makes a strong jump, and that can certainly also be challenged in revision, because we have a huge cost with a special refugee situation. Now it was calculated, I heard, how much this was of the total budget. So when these extra things happen, and when those costs go away again, they go down on the cultural budget. That cultural life is predictable and good for Norway with this percentage – instead of being clear about what schemes are getting money, be clear about which schemes are being prioritised, and make sure that there is growth in the allocations to those schemes – I think that is strange. Then we have to have a little explanation of vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against Framework Area 3, V, paragraph 2, which is a technical provision on how to handle the money put on the state budget for the party games in Bergen and North Norway. Of course, we can't vote for that when that money isn't there anymore, so that's what makes us not voting for it. Then I ask those who have reported concerns about the node arrangement, to read to the eye, to be large and wet on page 61 of the setting. It clearly states what we think must be the criteria for a future festival support scheme, including: ‘Regional anchoring and local and regional co-financing shall give priority to the application procedure.’; So there it is, and that's the explanation that we're moving towards V, point 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2075	Unfortunately, I was prevented from following up my own question to the representative Ib Thomsen about the NRK licence. I repeat that before the deposit election, the Advance Party struck with fire and bram firmly that one has paid a license for the last time. So it's said that it's working with that position. This seems to do the utmost for the licence bill issued in 2016, which has never been as high as it is at present. There is an increase in the licence, and through the increase in the culture tax, it is the highest licence in the time. It's interesting to notice. When we've asked about this before, it shows that it's going to be investigated. But in an article earlier in the debate, Ib Thomsen said that you can imagine using the license to participate and create media diversity. It may not mean anything other than that it is a maximum moving objective, with which the Progress Party operates, and that they have at least once and for all now established that the licence has come to be. It will not be removed with them in government. It's okay to have clarified, and I'm so happy about it, but they might owe their own voters an explanation. So that's the question of zero VAT on digital media. It's true that we've been impatient, and it's true that evolution has gone very fast. Firstly, I think it has gone so fast that it has come as a surprise to the industry itself. I was sitting and clearing up some old documents yesterday, and there was a recording from MBL from a previous budgetary process not many years ago, where they recommended the Stortinget to go in for 8-8. As far as I remember, the government in its government statement said that you wanted a low tax, you didn't say anything about zero VAT there. Then the party by party in turn and order in Stortinget – the Christian People's Party was probably first, and the Workers' Party number two – has landed on the point that now progress is so fast and so dramatic that there must be some more radical grip here. Gradually, there has been a consensus in this room that zero VAT is the right thing to do, and we are happy to give honor to the government because they have delivered quickly in an area that is now mutually agreed. Then we record that there is considerable unrest in the trade press. We tried to preserve the recordings we got in budgetary consultation by inviting the Council of State to dialogue on what the contents of the zero VAT of the future should be. That was the government's rejection, but we've at least tried to make sense of it. So I'll give honey, but at the same time show that there is also considerable potential for improvement in what is now available. Then I refer to our alternative budget proposal, where we increase the production grant, we propose 3 million. kr in the local digitisation grant scheme, we propose to increase the local programming grant – so that they can also be digitised – by 3 million. kr, and we suggest increasing to Sami newspapers. In total, it contributes to increased media pluralism and more votes are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2090	Culture out to the whole country and a cultural budget that guarantees an increase of one percent was the policy of the Stoltenberg government. School bags, scooters, cities and towns were filled with culture, music, theatre, form and color. We're going to have less detailed management, said the Minister of Culture earlier today. It is a tradition that is well anchored in blue-blue policy. Now we have a government and a culture minister with so little detail management that they can't even figure out the proportion of the state budget in the cultural budget. It's a bit of control, it's. This lower share of money use actually has consequences, including: for the sail shooters, which I had an interpellation about last Friday. The intentions were good, also from the Minister of Culture and the representatives of the Right – although I have to admit that one of the Right representatives was almost as concerned as me, but just about. The increase in the budget was nearly the same as last year. The increase stopped a little bit. From 2013 to 2014 – the last year of the Stoltenberg government was responsible – the increase was 1.2. In 2015–2016 there has almost been no increase, nor has there been any increase from 2014 to 2015. So we can say that the will was medium, but the will was present when it came to agreeing that the public has to contribute several alternative sources of income to the sailors. I am very pleased, and I have great expectations that the committee chairman and southern representative Harberg will make sure that the good will for concrete appropriations will be converted to next year – the government's second last budget in their period – possibly that the will is so great that the standstill and sea canals, which are now falling, pass over, so that we get a little wind in the sails already in the revised national budget. Then I recommend that the government match the Workers' Party's alternative budget of 20 million. kr for the sail shooters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2101	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2104	First, a brief explanation of vote. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 16, from the Central Party, when they've changed their content there. Otherwise, we will probably vote against the other proposals that have been promoted, except our own. Then Terje Breivik comes back to VAT, which we need to comment on. A brief remark about volunteering, because here I feel sincerely that we are a center party. We're very happy that we've got the government to remove the fee for volunteering. We are very happy for the job of red tape, simplification and organisation that volunteering does. But then the government is completely hopeless when it comes to supporting organisations across the different departments. The left is very happy that we have put back all the money that was proposed to various voluntary organisations in all possible departments. Here we show a clear centre position: we want both to red tape and to remove taxes, but we also want to provide support to organisations across the ministries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2111	The reason I took the floor is a need for a brief comment on this with private money, because after this debate today we can only state that the Workers' Party is only for private money in cultural life when they do not trigger any cooperation with the public. It's the only red thread or in the vicinity of a principle that the Workers' Party has prejudiced here today. So, people like to spend private money on cultural life and want to bring gifts, but it doesn't have to be anywhere near any cooperation with the public. I'm recording that the same principle does not apply to sports facilities, because it's because sports build a lot of sports facilities around, and then there's private funds with it, it's actually a prerequisite for getting cultural resources. So there's obviously not the principle. Even the cultural investigation – So the Workers' Party reduced the Enger Committee, which gave its position – said the following: ‘Increasing funding of cultural life from private sources is desirable. Several sources of funding contribute to ensuring cultural independence and promote diversity in artistic and cultural production. On the one hand, there are also practical reasons to welcome private funding for cultural life. The selection wants the production of art and culture to continue to grow into the future. In order to achieve this, it is important to extend the funding of cultural life which is additional to the appropriations made by public authorities.’.» That's exactly what we're trying to do. If we can be close to getting an incentive scheme that in the long run triggers even more private capital, and that makes both private capital and public funds contribute – in cooperation – to being able to realize several types of cultural projects around it, I have difficulty understanding that someone can oppose it. A short point also in the case of Talent Norway: It's actually not just music actions that are under Talent Norway today; there are seven projects that have been supported so far: it's stage art, it's dance, it's lyric, it's visual art, it's contemporary music, it's jazz, it's ensembles, it's classical, and it's training in the regions. In order to mention two–three of those involved, BFung, Henie Onstad, 1B1, can be mentioned as a national ballet. These were just a few examples. So it is wrong when the Workers' Party claims from Stortingen's pulpit that this only goes to music action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2127	When right now in this debate has spent a lot of time defending and taking credit for zero VAT on the media in parallel with the fact that the Labour Party has made a little bit of rhetorical points of relatively small changes in the press support, it does well to show how right and how important it was that in last year's treatment of the state budget we just took the fight and got to kneel the principle of zero VAT on digital media. Just to recapitulate a little bit: this is the most sovereign, heaviest media policy grip we've done in this Greatness of an industry that saw to those degrees a combination of an income deficit that few other industries are near by, with changes in people's media habits and not least competition from other players digitally, which is quite challenging. That's how I thought it was appropriate to use this debate and really affirm from this pulpit that this is perhaps the grip that was the most important thing we did for the media industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2132	First of all, as far as the Frankfurt Book Fair is concerned, the Christian People's Party is very pleased that all four cooperation parties have agreed on both a note in the vote and also the proposal that has been promoted today in the Chamber. We're behind it, and it also looks like we're getting large and wide connections from the Storting to it. This is very good — good for Norwegian literature and not least for the internationalisation of Norwegian literature. It's another area that several people have been in, and that's the museum area. It is an important area, and it is quite obvious that the gift-enhancing system is not very close enough to meet the challenges of the museum front, not least in terms of building. But there's been a movement in Stortinget, and I'm very happy that we've got an overall committee to stand behind comments linked both to the Telemark Museum and to the Norsk Bergverksmuseum in Kongsberg. Of course, I expect the government to note those comments and see that there is a will on the Storting to support those projects, that we are positive to the development plans that are there. But it's clear that the gift-enhancing system can not only help solve the challenges facing the museum environment. The art assistant system is also mentioned, and the Christian People's Party and the Left were accused of being threatened in their knees. I just want to remind you that there is an overall committee that is behind a note on the art assistant scheme, and that is a very positive willingness to lift it up. We have said in the past that maybe Talent Norway could be the framework for such a scheme. I record that it has not yet been taken into account, it is likely that it will not be taken into account, and therefore we still have to look at how we can get this in place. The transfer of experience from established artists to new artists is incredibly important, we just have to get that in place. There is no expensive system, and I therefore hope that we can get some positive signals from the government about it already in the budget next year. Otherwise, of course, I am glad that the artists' tips were lifted, and I am very pleased with the answer that the Council of State gave to the representative Trine Skei Grande, because this is a start, but it has to be followed up. That the government not only acknowledges the promise we have now made in connection with this budget, but also that it should be followed up, I am very pleased. Otherwise, I just have to say in the end that I think this discussion about private and public money is getting a little weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2145	Norwegian cultural life, volunteering and sport make a great effort every day around the country, in all the country's 428 municipalities, a effort for unselfish work to have good breeding communities for small and large. There are many good local events, there are major activities, and there is also the construction and operation of many large facilities. Here are the local fires that stand on every single day to make an effort for a good growth for those who live there. When the Workers' Party was in government, we had three cultural ministers, Trond Giske, Anniken Huitfeldt, Hadia Tajik, who introduced several large, new schemes to strengthen volunteering, cultural life and sport, among others. through new grassroots share, VAT compensation for goods and services, new VAT compensation for sport in connection with the construction of installations and not least the escalating plan for new key to 64 pst. What I want to address in particular concerns VAT compensation for the construction of installations, which was introduced in 2010. It is a very fine arrangement for sport in particular, which today takes a great responsibility in planning, building and operating sports facilities for tomorrow's young people and young people who are going to be active. It is then important that this scheme is as predictable as possible, so that sport may be able to plan funding for this. When applying for gambling funds, they are dependent on having municipal guarantees, they are dependent on getting loans from banks, etc., but they are not allowed to enter this with VAT compensation, because it is not predictable because it is a framework management. Now we've had the arrangement since 2010, and as the Council of State said quite correctly, it was an exceptional year in 2012 when it wasn't 100 p.m., but this has created a big problem every year. We saw big headlines in Trondheim just a month ago. Heimdal Sports Association was in danger of losing $6 million. kr for the realisation of the construction they have set up. We cannot have such a system in the future. We must create predictability and have an estimate that ensures that sport, through the responsibility it takes on behalf of the municipality, on behalf of the public, has good support in the ground that ensures good planning, good construction and not least the operation of these sports facilities in the future, so that it does not go at the expense of the activity and what kids have to pay in fees to join football, swimming, skiing or handball.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2156	I remind you again that the most predictable sports organizations can deal with this, must of course be looking at practices and how the government at any time follows up what it has said. We have promised that we will provide compensation. We have also shown that through our budgets – unlike the Workers' Party, when they had government power, they were unable to implement this for a year as they now believe in principle that we should have done so. I see that in the budget agreement it's incorporated 5 million. in the cultural budget of the Skeivt archive in Bergen, which has also been promoted in the debate today. This is today established as a project at the University of Bergen. I therefore understand that these funds are to be channelled through the University. I also see that the committee's position is in favour of winding up the node scheme, which we have also been a little bit behind in the past, and allows the Norwegian cultural fund at the Cultural Council to manage the festival support. At the same time, the budget agreement proposes a separate grant for the Kristiansund Church Art Culture Festival. The majority of the Committee has pointed out that this violates the principle of granting this festival support from the Cultural Fund and has asked the Ministry to follow up so that all festivals are treated by the same body. I share that assessment and will follow it up in line with the Committee's position. A brief comment on efficiency and governance in the department and on «short and long sleeves», many of which are concerned. A recent report by Kjærvik and Askim at the Institute of State Science, the University of Oslo, was presented in practice. It demonstrates that the average number of management requirements per activity has decreased from 41.1 in 2012 to 35.5 in 2015. So it's going to go the right way, and I'm very happy about that. They also say, ‘KUD’ — i.e. Ministry of Culture — ‘is distinct from that department with both the least spread and the lowest number of management requirements per establishment. KUD is also an example of a department where the office management across businesses appears to be standardised in the circumstances we have identified.’ I'm very happy that it's going the right way. We can actually prove that we have confidence in the agencies that are set to control, that we are following this up, and that it is made visible in the concrete guidance signals that are actually given.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2170	A single matter that sorts under this Council of State and this budget area, and where the government fails completely and very seriously – I would say – is the matter of the health archive on Tynset. It is a case that has been going on since 2005–2006, where both the State and the municipality have spent tens of millions on investigations. Promises have been given, but the government is now scraping the project and failing a whole community. It's not only sad, but also serious that the government's argument about why they're doing this, obviously doesn't hold water. It's disappointing that it's happening now, and I expect this case to be rehearsed in a completely different committee than the Culture Committee. I noted in the debate the inauguration of the representative of Løvaas to defend the unfortunate liberalisation of gambling policy that this government is leading. These are not new tones from the representative of Løvaas. What I believe, on the other hand, is alarming, is his mention of the possibility of preventing illegal foreign games and the aggressive marketing they roll into the web. The Working Party is committed to defending the exclusive right model. We're committed to limiting gambling dependence. We want these games and the marketing they're doing, to life. We have recorded in debates earlier this month that the government will not get on with clearly feasible measures that can stop this, but will wait and see. Oversewingly, the representative Løvaas believes that measures we have proposed – blocking companies from the web – are North Korean methods. The representative of Løvaas then receives an answer as to whether he considers Denmark, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and eleven other European countries that have done so to be ‘North Korean’. They have proved that it works, and that there are effective measures against this type of illegal marketing of games that steal the profits of Norsk Tipping and thus Norwegian volunteering and sports. Finally, I believe that this debate clearly shows a government with low ambitions and great faith in policies that do not work. The emphasis on gift enhancement is shown not to be effective. Nevertheless, the government is running towards better knowledge. It does not contribute to the increase of private contributions. It also does not stimulate private individuals to give, and the comparison between the VAT compensation scheme and the gift enhancement is sought. The VAT compensation scheme is directed against teams, associations and organisations. The Labour Party will continue. We showed for eight years that we were focusing on culture and sport, and we're showing it in this budget. We're doing it with policies that work, that gather and not split Culture-Norway. Then I would like to inform you that the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 15th I believe that the Labour Party has explained its vote on all the proposals we are going to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2184	I meant to hear that the Minister of Culture said that the Workers' Party would not cooperate with private actors, only have the money. It's, with respect to reporting, wrong. The Minister of Culture, who really systematized and strengthened the cooperation between public and private, was Åse Kleveland in his time. I have run a large cultural institution called the Festival Games in North Norway. It was a real pleasure to cooperate with a lot of private actors. They went in both as sponsors, i.e. brought money, and they took part in life and pleasure with their employees and with their business relations. But I was the artistic leader who programmed the party games. If we had seen this as a token gift-enhancing scheme, Statoil, Telenor and the Saving Bank Nord-Norge would have come to me and said, "If you put that artist on stage, you'd have 500,000 kroner. If you put that artist on stage, you're going to get $200,000 provided you bring the same amount yourself." Everyone understands that it had gone wrong. It was me as the artistic leader who was responsible for programming, and then it was a very nice, exciting and strong collaboration with the private actors, who brought money to the party games, and who participated with life and lust. Now, of course, it's not right to compare the party games in North Norway with the nation of Norway and cultural life in that country, but what I think is that in this room, which has been mandated by people through elections, we have a responsibility to lay the foundations and general guidelines and political leadership for cultural policy. We must facilitate the flowering of the hundreds of flowers. We have to facilitate, and make sure that we have good distributions between the different parts of cultural life. We are responsible for facilitating artistic activity throughout the country. Then it can't be that we give away the prioritisation tool to private actors and those who already have the greatest assets. We're going to cooperate with private people in a good, close and close way, with whom I have good experience, but the overall cultural policy and the distribution of resources have to be done first and foremost in this house – then hundreds of artistic flowers can bloom.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2193	I had to ask for the floor when the Council of State Widvey was up and talking about private funds. I understand that the Council of State is raising itself above criticism of the gift-enhancing system, but I am a little surprised at that, too, since the Stortinget is asking – we in the Central Party have proposed that we should have – a review of the gift-enhancing system. It's not because we're against private giving gifts to museums, etc. in our country, but we are concerned that there should be an equal distribution – it should be possible to see how we can strengthen all museums around the country. We had hoped that the whole Big City could join us, and that's why I'm amazed that the Council of State is very excited about this. I think it was the representative Ib Thomsen who was involved in it, who said he could understand that it could be a little bit more challenging to get funds in areas where there are fewer people living. That understanding I had hoped that the majority could have, and that we could have gone through the case and looked into whether it actually is. We have no objection to the fact that there are some benevolent souls with a fortune who want to donate money to an institution – we think that’s just great. But that, at the same time, triggering state resources, we're questioning, and how the equal distribution is going to be. We also know, as the representative Becquerad had to say, that there is a huge drag in the museum sector. I think that applies to the country over there, and not just to a few museums, but very many places. So a little bit about the VAT compensation scheme. It is now strongly defended as the date of application has moved to spring. That's very good. But I also think that the representative Thomsen had a very good answer, that it might not be the kind of funding method the Ministry of Finance prefers. Then I think it's much better to give an honest answer to that and say that one is struggling to convince the finance minister, instead of going out hard and defending that this is the most predictable arrangement. There are several people who have pointed out that it is actually not a very predictable scheme, and we would have liked very much to see that there had been a more predictable arrangement for the various sports teams and organisations around that are taking on a great task on behalf of volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2202	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2205	I'll be brief. I have to say that I am surprised and surprised that the gift-enhancing system is compared with the funds collected, the effort, the sales of lotteries and waffles. It is hard work, municipalities and tippers in sum that build sports facilities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2210	With regard to the proposal on Tynset and Norwegian health records, I believe that the government has followed up the Stortingen request decision and confirmed that the government will implement an archive project on Tynset. It is true that in its original draft budget for 2014, the Labour Party proposed a solution that was not then quality-proof. The quality assurance of this pre-project, the so-called KS2 report, shows that the pre-project developed by Stadsbyggen was very expensive and that it should be possible to significantly reduce costs. It is also the case that State buildings have subsequently assessed different adjustments to this project, including alternative land on Tynset, without providing a possible solution with significant cost reductions. The Government has therefore concluded that one should proceed with a slightly revised device of this measure. We are now planning to set up a digitalisation facility for the archive sector on Thinset, as is known, including work on digitisation of health archives, and then try to see if it is possible to find a solution with the storage of permanent paper archives elsewhere. The government's assessment is nothing more than that we believe the project is too expensive. We're looking at whether this change can achieve a significant reduction in investment costs. Of course, it should be emphasised that the activity assumed to be added to Thinset is very labour intensive, and most of the new jobs created by this measure will be on Thinset. So a short comment on this that concerns the goal of 1 pst. There are many who have been in the debate today, especially from the Labour Party. It is also the case that when the Workers' Party promoted this proposal on 1 pst, it was overall what could be obtained from different actions under the responsibility of different departments. It wasn't just the Ministry of Culture that was the basis for it at the time. I think it's a little pointless practice, to put it straight out. I haven't actually tried to do that once – to look at how many different actions we could define under cultural measures in different departments' responsibilities. But I think it's a little pointless practice instead of concentrating on point 1, to make sure that we have a good quality offering of art and culture productions across the whole country, and to make sure that there's still good and big subsidies from the state. So I think it's actually positive, and I agree with the cultural investigation and its conclusions from the Labour Party sample originally reduced, that it can actually be important to get more private funds into cultural life – for at least two reasons: one is the spread of power, that one makes sure that one becomes less dependent on just the public funds, but also because it will contribute to more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2221	I agree with the Minister of Culture that such calculations are very wrong, especially when we believe that the percentage of the budget is not the target, even though I feel that it is still the lighthouse for the Workers' Party. Then we could also scrape funds together – we could get 350 million. kr, which is the proceeds from the zero VAT, we could get 40 million. NOK from the gift voucher and we could keep on like that, we too, and maybe get up in 1 pst. But that's not the point, that we have to spend so much time on it. It's a little bit hard to understand. I'll make an exception anyway – just for fun. If that's like 1 pst. is nirvana, and I wonder why – as far as I can count on at least – the Workers' Party's alternative budget has not reached 1 pst. on the cultural budget. To something else: I understood the representative of Grande's need to try to explain that, as we say in Westfold, they do not owe 750 million. kr in the budget to balance it, but they do. Then all the bets become a little bit hollow, all the time you don't have the containment. For that is, to try to explain it, so that the alternative budget includes both an effect of the financial tax and an effect of the interest-rate reduction rule, which does not have an effect in 2016, which means that there are no 750 million missing. kr regardless of how you calculate it. Even the newspaper Dagbladet called it “air billions”. Then I have to fix another mistake as well. The representative of Trettebergstien said that it is actually a cut. Of course it isn't. The cultural budget is rising by 4.5 pst. – it is more than the State budget otherwise. I want to quote a comment from journalist Jan Zahl in Stavanger Aftenblad, and that doesn't make a right-wing man very often. He writes: 'The budget for culture has not fallen, but up. So also this year, with over half a billion, or 4.5 percent. Then you should be well placed in the political opposition or in LO-related trade unions to talk about the loss of ‘culture’ or ‘massive cut’.’ We have to stop calling it cut when it's actually an increase. So finally, someone pointed out that we want to reverse some important areas. The alternative budget of the Workers' Party also had reversals. You want to remove the talent scheme, and you want to remove the gift enhancement scheme. I think the comparison with the gift enhancement scheme is very relevant in the case of sports facilities. It is about installations and cultural services that are important to people, who are important to those who use them, and it is also important for those who are involved and contribute. And around, for example, the museums also contribute large voluntary environments, so there is a very relevant comparison.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2237	The representative, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2240	I concluded the previous article maybe a little abruptly saying that I think this debate on private funds is a little weird. I don't think of private funds as being cloudy – rather on the contrary, it helps to supplement. But what I want to warn you about is to think that there's a sarephak out there, an extensive jar of private funds. I would strongly warn against that, because that is not the case. The signals we get are that it's really hard for the institutions in cultural life to pick up private funds. That is why I am concerned that private funds must come as a complement to still high government grants – just so I have managed to place it correctly in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2245	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2248	The Council of State would like to try to talk away from the fact that the government has chosen not to establish the archive project and the jobs that an entire community and a county are promised. It's a political choice, it's a political betrayal, and the government's argument doesn't hold water. But as I said, this is going to be a matter for a committee other than the Culture Committee. We are clear in our priorities in the cultural budget. We even asked for the evaluation of the cultural promise, and we follow it up, for example. with a stake in the pay of artists. It is good with good intentions and political support from the position, but artists cannot live by good words and political support. I am therefore disappointed with the lack of majority voting for, for example. the artificial assistant system. This debate clearly shows the need for a shift in cultural policy. The next last article is just showing it. If the representative of Løvaas believes and believes that institutions are getting an increase in the cultural budget of the year, he is mistaken. It's just asking the institutions themselves. The increase in the cultural budget is eaten up by wage and price increases. It means less culture and art in institutions all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2255	It was the State Council's posts on archiving that got me to take the word. A lot was said that was not true in that post. One is that the project was poorly investigated in advance. It wasn't. There was money in the budget for 2014, which the government decided to remove, and on which the majority unfortunately agreed. This municipality, which is a small municipality, had put down over 30 million. kr in preparation for a project which was quality assured by the Swedish Archives Agency and by all the professional bodies competent in the field. When the government then removed the project, both the State Council and the State Secretary were out and promised that the establishment would take place collectively on Tynset. So what do we experience? Budgetary expenditure goes by budget. There's nothing happening, and then finally there's a solution that you say is based on a report from State Building. I have asked the Council of State in written questions to see the underlying material in order to check what the Council of State is now saying here. I have been told that no, we will not see that report. So we can't see the basis that the Council of State says proves that this project was too expensive. This doesn't hold water. This is a political robberies from this government that has removed one of the major district policy bets that the red-green government had completely pottery. We were even up there and stuck the spade in the ground to start the project. There were no professional bodies against it. It's just that this is not the government's project. Here you have presented a quasi-solution in this budget, which is not funded, where you say jobs are to be created on Tynset. They're not funded. But they have chosen to add the archive solution either to Dora in Trondheim or to Brønnøysund. You don't know that either. So the whole project is in blue, to put it straight out. I believe the Right on Tynset is almost closed now, and I understand that. This is really a political robbery of the big and ugly. This was a project of good quality that could be located in a small district municipality, but you wouldn't. One of the important district policy initiatives that were potters has been destroyed. I also know that the matter has now aroused some interest in the Enlarged Council's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2267	The President is a little uncertain as to whether the term 'political robberies' lies within what should be said. Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2272	I just have a little explanation of vote at the end. It's at the Filmpark at Jar and the election VII about the sale of the state's shares in the Filmpark AS. We support it, but I just need to stress that the industry has been concerned that with a new incentive scheme that is happily coming into place, there must also be infrastructure that facilitates it. If the Council of State can only nod to dialogue with the industry on how to continue to develop the incentive system, we settle down and will therefore support that proposal, just so it is expressed by the pulpit. Then the debate has been marked by the fact that the government parties have boasted of their own policies and the opposition has promoted its own proposals. That's right and fair. We started with the trombone coat, and I want to end with another trombone, Olav Duun, who writes it this way: "The world is beautiful to her, only you see her from the right edge." And that's the way politics are.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2281	I would first like to confirm, on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party, that we are still voting in favour of the revised proposal of the Central Party on foster homes. And then we clarify that we are voting against proposal No. 13–15, from the Center Party. In the end, I just want to thank the Committee for good cooperation. It became a hectic budgetary process, so thank you all for flexibility and generosity and cooperation that made us target remarks in record time and get cleared up in everything called suggestions, and what to do with what. Of course, it was not that fast. Thank you for a good debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2288	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2302	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2309	The introduction of a comprehensive national film dissemination policy is an important step in the film communication that was addressed at Stortinget last week. This grip has been requested by the industry. There is broad political consensus that it is a State responsibility to contribute to the predictable and stable financing of important tasks for the dissemination of film culture. The government wants to change today's system, where the bill for the dissemination of film and videograms in industry goes to Norwegian cinema and film funds. The government considers it more appropriate for the levy to be paid on the State budget. The amendment proposed in Prop. 5 L, is a technical follow-up to the proposal for a decision on the appropriations in the State budget of the Ministry of Culture which has just been discussed in this Chamber, as well as the proposals in the film communication which were discussed here last Tuesday. I am pleased that the committee was behind this change in the examination of the matter in all these large-scale documents. This means that, from now on, the means of charging can go to film dissemination activities in their entirety. Film & Kino, who has so far managed the fees in Norwegian cinema and film funds, has transformed into a purely professional organisation. It is therefore not appropriate that Film & Kino manage funds in the form of a State levy. The Norwegian Film Institute is the most appropriate governing body in the field of film in order to allocate subsidies from the film fee to film dissemination.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2323	Like the Council of State, I would like to stress that there is a broad consensus on what is being presented here. I would just like to stress that there is an adjustment in the Committee in relation to what the Council of State put forward in its proposal, where we refer to the film conciliation and the suspension of the roll-out notification on new film policy, where the use of these funds is more detailed. I would like to ask the State Council to confirm that it has been taken care of and will be taken care of during the course that she is now putting up for the use of the fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2328	With regard to the use of these fees, we had it up in the debate when we discussed the film message. So that's taken care of, and of course I'll follow up on what's the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2333	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2349	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2356	A clean-up in the lottery field is continuing, and a unanimous committee is joining the bill. Extra is a private lottery regulated by the Lottery Act, but has been organised under Norwegian Typing and has been under Norwegian Typing's liability regime. Such hybrid solutions may help to water out the intention of the exclusive right model and thus also challenge the derogation Norway has to maintain this model. It is natural that the game is transferred to Norsk Typing's ordinary portfolio as the game is too large to apply for a concession within the lottery regulations. Today's amendment ensures equal treatment for private lottery operators. The Committee notes that it has been concluded that the Extra Foundation will receive a fixed share of Norwegian Typing’s profits in the future and that this share is set at 6.4 pst. The Committee has been made aware that a proposal for a second percentage is likely to be made in the Chamber today. When the Right Party and the Advance Party vote for the proposition, it's both because there's a thorough assessment behind the percentage, because it's higher than the average over the seven previous years, and because choosing another percentage gets a little bit of a think-in-a-number exercise, which is not serious enough for such a case. There is reason to remember that this rate will ensure the foundation a predictable share in the years to come, while the future of the game itself appears to be somewhat more uncertain. That's why we join the proposition, including the transitional arrangement negotiated with the Extra Foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2365	Today, the Stortinget will consider a government proposal to decide in practice the outcome of an ongoing private-law negotiation between a state-owned company and a private-ideal foundation. It's in itself a very special situation. On one side of the table: Norwegian Typing, owned by the state and under the instruction of the government and in the outer consequence of the Storting. On the other side of the table: ExtraFoundation, owned by 30 non-profit institutions serving health and rehabilitation purposes. The other negotiator disagrees deeply with the premise for the amendment, as presented in the proposal from the Ministry, and as the Committee suggests. This disagreement has been disregarded by the Ministry and the Committee. It makes the situation extra special. There has been a debate on this matter in the public domain, although the Committee's decision does not reflect it. In this debate, the Minister of Culture has stressed the need for the Extra Foundation to deal with the new legislation, in line with other actors. This is a matter inherited from the previous government, and that follows from ESA's criticism of how legislation for private actors has been practiced. To be clear, this is no one in doubt. It's understandable and understandable. No one today proposes that health and rehabilitation purposes through the Extra Foundation should receive special treatment outside the exclusive right model in the future. Until it's too big a turnover. So there is nothing like ‘flagging’ here – to refer to the representative of Eidem Løvaas’ posts earlier today. The disagreement is about how this process has been managed and the amount of the transfer fee. The government proposes 6.4 pst., while the Extra Foundation, the owner of the game, believes that 9 pst. would have been a correct determination. The issue of ownership is central to this debate. The Ministry has assumed in the proposition that Norwegian Typing and ExtraStiftungen have shared ownership of the game Extra. This is a deep disagreement with the Extra Foundation, nor does it cover the agreement between the parties. The agreement speaks of shared ownership, and in the jessen there is something quite different than ownership. The National Audit Board has obligations to oversee all Norwegian Typing's assets as a state company, but has never overseen the Extra game. It is in particular that the Committee unanimously endorses what appears to be such a fundamental error, for ownership naturally has implications for valuation and in the next round a remuneration. There are two assessments of the value of the foundation: one of the consultants Oslo Economics, which assesses the value of Extra to a place between 2 billion. kr and 5 brd. kr, and the second of Norwegian Typing, which estimates the value of SEK 600 000 – a game that thus has an annual turnover of 1 billion. kr. The government will use Norwegian Typing's assessment. Has the Committee at all considered this issue? The Extra Foundation is governed by the Constitution. A foundation may not withdraw values from the company or use profits for any other purpose. That's why it's a foundation and not a corporation. Accordingly, the board of foundations cannot give away values in the foundation as gifts to others or transfer the foundation to others at underprice. In that case, the Administrative Board may be held liable for a breach of the law. But that's what the Storting is about to impose on the Board of Extra Foundations to do. Is that reasonable while the negotiations are still in progress? Behind this whole debate lies a size called operator compensation, a market charge of 27,5 p.m.. after premiums and operating, which is what Norwegian Typing has claimed in return for the game Extra – the direct consequence of the Extra Foundation having to pay one third of the gambling profit to Norwegian Typing instead of for health and rehabilitation purposes. Whether the amount of the levy is reasonable or whether the money has actually gone to the administration or other purposes is difficult to say, as Norwegian Typing itself has reduced the need for compensation to the recipients of the profits and otherwise the company is exempt from the disclosure law. The Extra game concession expires on 31 December. We've been busy in this case, and I think it's with a little bad taste in my mouth today, in a debate that's going on between actors that are subject to state regulation. The Extra Foundation has sent an application for an extended lottery licence, as the negotiations have not been completed. I assume that this is the reason why the matter has been dealt with so quickly in the committee. The left today promotes a proposal to increase the funds for health and rehabilitation purposes to 7.7 pst. It has been presented in agreement with the Extra Foundation. For the left, we want the contribution to be for the health of young people – and that is a good thing – in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2395	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2398	Earlier in December, I stood on this pulpit and explained how the government had to carry out a rapid clean-up in the lottery code after ESA opened a case against Norway. The main objection raised by ESA was that previous legislation and practices opened up discrimination against operators in the private lottery market. The bill that Stortinget has to deal with today is a consequence of the cleaning up that the government is implementing in the lottery field. For many years, the Extra Foundation has benefited from special treatment and has been able to offer a lottery of a size that other actors have not been able to offer. Such a special treatment cannot continue – it is simply not legal under the EEA Agreement. In the future, the Extra-Foundation will have to deal with a new regulatory framework in the same way as other actors. This means that the system that the foundation has had, with the exception of the lottery legislation, must now be terminated. There has been strong political will on the part of the government to ensure health purposes income even after changes in the lottery legislation. I have had a comprehensive dialogue with the Extra Foundation to find a solution for health purposes. In these meetings I have come to understand that there has been an agreement on the principles of a solution: the game Extra is transferred to Norwegian Typing against the fact that the Extra Foundation receives a fixed share of Norsk Typing's profits in the future. There is no secret that there has been a disagreement about the size of the proportion to be attributed to the Extra Foundation. I understand that the Extra Foundation wants to secure as much revenue as possible for the future, but I have a responsibility for the other purposes that receive profits from Norsk Typing. The proportion proposed for the Extra Foundation provides a good balance between the health objectives and the consideration for other purposes. The share is calculated from what proportion of the profit from the game Extra over time has been made by Norsk Typing's total profit and the future prospects of the game. I have noticed that a joint committee is in favour of the ministry's proposal that 6.4 pst. of Norwegian Tipping’s surplus shall be attributed to health purposes for distribution through the Extra Foundation. In my opinion, this is a very good solution for the Extra Foundation. The Foundation will have greater financial security. They don't depend on the evolution of just one lottery. In addition, they will be involved in any future sales increase at Norsk Typing. It is a prerequisite for the bill to carry out a private-law transfer of ownership of the game Extra – from the Extra Foundation to Norwegian Typing. The amendment will not be able to take effect until such a transfer has taken place. This is starting to rush. Unfortunately, no agreement has been reached on the transfer of the game. Last Friday I had a meeting with the Extra Foundation on the matter. At the meeting, the foundation stated that they would not enter into an agreement as the matter stands now. The Extra Foundation wants additional compensation than proposed in the legislative proposal. I have registered that the ExtraFoundation yesterday at an extraordinary meeting of members agreed to support the Foundation's board of directors continuing to work to raise their share of the health care funds. I want to make it very clear to the Stortinget that I cannot offer the Extra Foundation other than what is provided for in the proposition – that the game Extra is transferred to Norwegian Typing without any further remuneration for the health purposes getting a fixed share of Norwegian Typing's profits. An additional compensation for the game Extra will result in Stortinget taking a decision based on wrong assumptions. I can't stand for that. Furthermore, I cannot see any possibility that the Extra Foundation can get a new lottery license after New Year to run the game Extra further in the format it has today. The current Lottery Permit of the Extra Foundation expires at the end of the year. As I see it, it's not the law for an extension of today's permit. In the meeting I had with the Extra Foundation on Friday, I gave explicit notice of these points. The law must be sanctioned before Christmas if the game Extra is still to be offered as today after the New Year. If the game has to stop from New Year, it will probably never start again. There's still time, but the time is running out of us. The Extra Foundation supports many health projects that would otherwise not be feasible. I think it's sad if these don't get that opportunity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2427	As shown in the statement by the representative of the Left and in the proposal, a debate has arisen in this case, and claims arise where there is doubt as to whether the assessments relating to ownership and the value of the game provided by the Ministry are correct. The Committee has no reason to believe that the government here has not made proper assessments, but we are concerned that things should be right, and I want the Council of State to confirm for the Storting today that the assessments made here in the case are on the right basis and stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2434	There are two issues in particular that have arisen, which there is disagreement. One of them, of course, is ownership, and the other is the percentage, how much they should get. I have reason to believe that the Norwegian Tipping and Extra Foundation own the game in common, and I have based this on two aspects in particular. According to the agreement between ExtraStiftungen and Norwegian Typing, these two have joint ownership rights for the game. The second relationship is that the Extra Foundation in its own annual reports in previous years has assumed that the game is owned by the Foundation and Norwegian Typing jointly and with equal ownership. I now register that there is a conflict about ownership, and I just have to take note of that. I also have to say to Stortinget that it is the legal apparatus that has to decide on any conflict between Norwegian Typing and Extra Foundation on the ownership of the lottery, that is not something the department can decide. When it comes to how many percentage points we've figured out the Extra Foundation should have, the starting point has been to give the Extra Foundation something similar to what they have today, and to a notable extent it should not go beyond other types of purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2443	In reply to the representative Trettebergstien, the Council of State says that one has taken ownership as a principle and not ownership, and it is possible that this is correct. Here we have little opportunity to get an insight into the matter all the time one actor is a private actor and the other is not public. It should be up to the Ministry of State to make the assessments relating to ownership. The fact that there is now a debate on the matter in Stortinget, I think it is rather unfortunate – that we are going down the spat with an unexplained situation. This is precisely what complicates the discussion of remuneration and share. To what extent has the Council of State considered using non-operator Norsk Typing in this case to assess ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2450	As I said, I understand that there is a disagreement between the parties now about who actually owns this. The Norwegian Tipping and Extra Foundation own the game in common, and that's what I've laid down, and I'm basing it on two relationships, as I said in my post as well. According to the agreement between ExtraStiftungen and Norwegian Typing, these two have joint ownership rights for this game. This is a legal agreement that they have signed on both. The second ratio is that the Extra Foundation has recently claimed the same in many annual reports, that the game Extra is owned by the Extra Foundation and Norwegian Typing jointly and with equal ownership. That's what we're basing our relationship on, and I don't have any other kind of information that would contradict that. Then I hurry to add that with regard to the distribution of the company's profits, Norwegian Typing is not a party to it, because it is determined by the legislator. It is clear that this is the legal provision for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2456	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2461	As far as ownership is concerned, it seems as if we are in a somewhat unexplained situation and are going to make decisions here today. Going into and evaluating, looking back and looking at agreements that have been made is an important part of transferring or making an actual transaction, as in this case. No one disagrees with the Norwegian Typing Extra game. The compensation for the change of ownership is one discussion; the other is to what extent the percentage should be part of that remuneration. When the value is estimated by one party to be NOK 600 000 and by another actor, it is estimated to be 5 billion. kr, there is a significant difference. Norwegian Typing has charged an Extra game fee of 93 million. kr, which is a market fee for no other game. Thus, the Extra Foundation has contributed a reward for what is called a unique position. The fee is then calculated into the consideration. So it's subtracted from the sales of the Extra game today for 1 billion. NOK, which is now added to the pot of Norwegian Typing. When Norwegian Typing increases income by 1 billion kr and sport shall have 64 pst. Of these, there is no doubt that there are the other purposes – sport and culture – that come most favourable because one puts the Extra game under Norwegian Typing. The discussion of 6,4 or 7,7 is quite relevant in terms of what is to be done for health purposes. This is where we claim that one takes money from health purposes and strengthens sports and cultural purposes. We think it's unfortunate. So there's an opportunity to change the percentage at a later date, and so it's up to the Storing to set the percentages. It is sad that we have come to this discussion, and that, among other things, The time has come for us to be treated too poorly and to put actors in a difficult situation. One has put the Extra game and its owners in a situation where a button has no choice but to accept the conditions set. In this case, not all power lies in this hall, it lies before and outside this hall. It is reasonable to think that one here has taken on the basis of what serves sport and culture, and then adapted the other to the health and rehabilitation purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2472	In terms of percentage, our starting point is that the solution would give Extra something similar to what it is today, that is. that there should be no significant impact on other purposes. Since 2008, payments to the Extra Foundation have been between 6.04 and 6.57 pst. of Norwegian Typing's total surplus. A share of 6.4 pst. is thus in the upper part of the bet as the share of the bet is made up of total profits in recent years. In the short term, therefore, this solution will give the ExtraFoundation something similar to today's. Otherwise, it's a long-term trend that numbers games like Extra become progressively less popular, i.e. that they are placed on the market. At the same time, Norwegian Typing expects an increasing total turnover in the next few years as a result of expected growth in other types of games in the portfolio. That means that in the long run, it'll probably be an advantage for the Extra Foundation that the payments are linked up to Norwegian Typing's total profit, not just to the surplus of the extra number game, as we actually have today. A brief comment on this with the operator's compensation, since the last speaker mentioned it. Up until now, the Extra Foundation has been involved in financing Norwegian Tipping's extensive market apparatus, such as the creation of brand names, customer base, contacts, etc. Other purposes that receive funds from Norwegian Typing's profits also cover such types of expenditure. The difference is, however, that the Extra Foundation as a private operator has had a separate agreement with Norsk Typing where their share has been specified. The other actors receive what constitutes Norwegian Typing's surplus after all costs, including costs of the market apparatus, have been deducted. So it's wrong to call this a fee, like the Extra Foundation does. This is a contribution to the operation of Norsk Typing's market machine and a compensation for the fact that Norwegian Typing has to take account of a private player's game in its portfolio. I believe it is reasonable that the Extra Foundation will continue to fund the operation of Norwegian Typing's significant market apparatus, as they have now. If that's the case, the Extra Foundation is going to get $90 million. kr more annually or have its percentage increased on the basis of someone else, that bill must be paid by some of the others who receive funds for the purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2483	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2497	This issue concerns a legislative amendment to the Law on Higher Education. What we're talking about is a change that concerns the procedure for the appointment of external board members at state universities. The legislative proposal is previously described in Meld. St. 18 for 2014–2015 Concentration on Quality – Structural Reform in the Higher Education sector, which we discussed here in the United Kingdom before the summer. This legislative amendment in the Law on Higher Education is one of several proposals described in the Structural Communication, and it has now been promoted because it is important to put this in place before the appointment of new controllers from 2016. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and effective consideration of this matter. The proposal proposes that the Ministry of Knowledge should appoint all members of the board of directors of the State Colleges. This means that county councils are no longer to appoint two external board members, as the current regime suggests. Following the proposal, the institutions themselves shall make proposals to the external members of the Management Board, and then the Ministry shall make the appointment on a free basis. There is a broad majority who support the proposed change, because we believe it will provide a more comprehensive assessment of the overall competence needs of the governments of state universities. It is also a point to stress that the current arrangement, in which the county councils have appointed two members of the board, has not functioned properly. Having said that, I would like to say that there is no doubt that universities and colleges have a central role in contributing to regional development and value creation, and there is a expectation that the institutions will take this responsibility seriously. It is also worth mentioning in this case that the vast majority of the hearing bodies are in favour of the proposed changes. The legislative amendment that we are going to adopt here today includes a proposal that numerical alternates be appointed to the Management Board and that there is an overall committee that joins this part of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2514	The centre party reiterates in this matter the objections and the proposal that we made when we dealt with the paper on structure in the university and higher education sectors in the spring session. A central research for universities has been that they have been close to the regions and have been able to respond quickly and provide training services that have been needed locally and regionally. We believe that this is an important part of the university's social mission. The central party believes that it is very important that regional ties continue, and that the municipality is the regionally elected level with, among others, competence responsibilities continue to have a formal influence on the representation of the boards of the remaining state colleges and of the new universities with the new university departments. The central party believes that the continuation of the system for the county to appoint external members of the board of directors would have ensured a regional link. However, we note that there is a large majority in favour of the Government's proposal that it be the Ministry that appoints all the external directors. We take note of this, but we still believe that the county should have been responsible for making proposals for candidates on current board members from its region. I bring this up with the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2525	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2532	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2541	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1, 5 and 6, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 2–4, 7–10 and 12, by Anette Trettebergsttuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 13–15, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien, on behalf of the Centre Party, enriched proposal No. 16, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 17, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party, was not taken up. There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2016, the government is asked to present a plan for the implementation of the Storting’s decision on quality, standard of living and pedagogical standards in kindergartens.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2580	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government requests that the broadcasting fee for television receivers be fixed at NOK 2622 excl. value added tax 2016.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to make the VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities rights-based.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2604	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the gift enhancement scheme, including an overview of the geographical breakdown of the funds allocated to the scheme.’;» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2621	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to file a case in which the VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities is transformed into a regulated scheme.» The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2638	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for amendment to the Kindergarten Act, so that children who reach one year’s age by the end of December of the year in which they are applied for children’s playground are entitled, upon application, to have their place in the kindergarten from 1 year of age in accordance with this Act. Children born before 1 September shall have their place by the end of August as today.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the establishment of a debt register.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2662	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 8-10 and 12, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals to give fathers the right to 14 weeks of parental leave.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to postpone the termination of the Node Order.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is asked to bring proceedings before the Storting regarding the possibilities for achieving the objectives of the Node Order and the consequences of any liquidation.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide a plan for the future operation of free theatre.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider raising the level of the smallest beneficiaries of the scheme, so that production subsidies are more beneficial to the smallest localities.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2702	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a reference group for the experiment of increased municipal responsibility for children’s protection, where stakeholders follow the start-up, implementation and evaluation of the project.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review and revise the Archive Act, which entered into force in 1999.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2726	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to review and revise the archive regulations.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e2743	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to follow up the obligation imposed on it to always assess the family or close networks of the child as possible foster home by taking care of the child.’ The President has reason to believe that this enriched proposal by the Central Party will be unanimously approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e5424	The Committee's position on point 2 of point B V is the first to be voted on. The President has reason to believe that everyone will vote against, that is, everybody is pressing the counter button. The roll-call boards showed that 105 votes were cast against and 1 vote in favour of the Committee's position on B V, paragraph 2. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.04.16]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e5433	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e5438	Then we correct it to be 106 votes against and 0 votes in favour of the Committee's position on point BV2, which was therefore not accepted. The Committee's position on the B rest of the V is further disputed. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e5455	Furthermore, the Committee's position shall be replaced by B VII. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e5469	Furthermore, the Committee's position on B IX is contested. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e5483	A vote is taken on the Committee's position on A and the rest of B. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6017	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision III, the Commitment Authority, is amended to: III Commitment AuthorityThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Culture may grant State grants of up to 30 million. krona to NORLA for the cost of the project ‘Norway as main country at the Frankfurt Book Fair in 2019’. The commitment assumes that Norway will be granted the national status in 2019.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6298	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on III and the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6313	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6372	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6382	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6390	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Mr Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision I, concerning the second paragraph of Section 10, is amended to include: the profits from the gambling activities of the company and subsidiaries are first distributed by 7,7 % for health and rehabilitation purposes. Thereafter, the remaining profits are allocated by 64 % for sport purposes, 18 % for cultural purposes and 18 % for non-Norway social or humanitarian organisations and the Olympic and Paralympic Committees. The funds shall be distributed more closely by the King.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6460	Alternatively, between the setting of the Committee and the second paragraph of Section 10 and the proposal of the Left. The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6475	The Committee's attitude to the rest of I and II shall then be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6485	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6495	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6503	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that county councils continue to nominate representatives of the boards of universities and colleges.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6558	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6571	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6583	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-09.ana.ud1266e6595	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
