ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e82	The representatives Peter Christian Frølich and Regina Alexandrova, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Øystein Langholm Hansen, has taken the seat. The Workers' Party's Group has submitted an application for leave to the representative Lise Christoffersen on 27 and 28 May to attend the meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Laila Gustavsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e116	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e128	The Norwegian economy is going from specialty to conversion. Therefore, the government has taken Norwegian policy out of the rest position. We are implementing a number of important reforms to equip Norway for the future. Furthermore, climate change requires the conversion of the oil and gas nation Norway to the low-carbon society in a few decades. The safety situation in Norway has changed. That is why the government is taking important steps to strengthen our defence capabilities, and we are working with our allies in NATO and friends in the EU on the necessary responses to Russia's behaviour in Europe. When we deal with these major changes, cooperation in Europe is in a key position. There are considerable differences between European countries, but we are all facing major challenges in security, economics and well-being, as well as climate and energy. And we all face the reality that other regions are biting away more strongly in global competition than what Europe is doing. Europe's security is being challenged from several quarters. In the east, Russia's behaviour in Ukraine shows that peace and international law cannot be taken for granted on our own continent. In Europe’s southern neighbourhood, decades of exclusive political and economic systems have contributed to creating a belt of instability. At the same time, this has contributed to the huge migration challenges in the Mediterranean. And within Europe, the threat of terrorism is real. Norway’s safety challenges are largely similar to those of the EU, and it is therefore in Norwegian interest to have an ongoing security policy dialogue with the EU. In the last year, we have intensified security and defence policy talks at both political and office level. More frequent non-EU EU-NATO meetings are also held. In addition, the more formalised link to EU security and defence cooperation comes through the EU battle groups, as well as civil and military operations, where Norway has contributed actively in recent years. Norway is currently participating in three of the operations, Kosovo, Djibouti, Somalia and Palestine respectively. Soon we will also participate in the EU's civil operation in Ukraine. European countries need to strengthen their defence capabilities. Within NATO, the US expects the EU and Europe to take greater responsibility for their own security. Many EU countries are in need of an economy and pressure on the defence budgets. Increased defence cooperation is a natural response to this challenge. In order to contribute to strengthening the capacity development of European countries, Norway cooperates closely with the EU Defence Agency, the EDA. We are among the largest contributors to EDA research and development. This is how we participate in capability cooperation at European level. As an EEA member, we have also incorporated into Norwegian law the so-called Defence Directive on sales between authorities. From the Norwegian side, we have argued that the sale of powers may be necessary for national security reasons and that this speaks for the fact that, in some cases, acquisitions do not appear on the European market, as the Directive normally requires. At the June European Council, the EU Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) will be discussed in its entirety. The revision of the EU’s global security strategy, the development of the defence industry and the strengthening of the EU’s defence capabilities are likely to be high on the agenda. The fact that the EU has become a significant foreign and security policy player has become evident in the overall response to Russia’s international law violations and aggression in Ukraine. NATO and the EU have taken action within their respective areas of responsibility. NATO has demonstrated its commitment to collective defence of the Member States through military sedation measures. Through restrictive measures, the EU has demonstrated the will and ability to respond resolutely to Russia's behaviour. We have never seen the EU toolbox, with both political and economic tools, be used so actively in foreign and security policy. Through the Majdan movement and the two subsequent elections, the Ukrainians have opted for a clear anchoring in Europe. The development of Ukraine is therefore essential for the credibility of European cooperation. The Association Agreement with the EU is a reform agenda for Ukraine. Implementing the reforms is a formidable task. The aim of the package of measures launched by the Prime Minister during his visit to Kiev last November is to support this reform work. It'll take time. That is why we have a long-term and European perspective on Norwegian support for Ukraine. The priorities are set and the support is continued and strengthened. Developments in the other countries of the East are also of great importance for peace and freedom in Europe. The EU Eastern Partnership Summit on 22 May confirmed the main direction of further cooperation with the six Eastern partner countries and gave a clear message that the EU wants to strengthen and continue the partnership. We focus on close cooperation with the EU to assist the political and economic development of these countries and European integration. The EU association and free trade agreements with Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia from June 2014 involve ambitious political, economic and social reform agendas with full support from Norway. Cooperation in Europe cannot be complete without the countries of the Western Balkans and Turkey. All these countries aim to become members of the EU. But reform work and integration are not going on. Following the historic agreement between Serbia and Kosovo in 2013, Serbia received a clear signal for negotiations on membership in January 2014. Since then, little has happened. Now the conversations have started again. Neighborhood and Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Hahn is trying to persuade the reluctant Member States to accept the opening of the first chapters. This is important. Serbia is a key country in the region, and Europe needs progress in Serbia's integration. The positive development of the region is not irreversible, an example of which is the deep political crisis in Macedonia. It is not just the country's internal stability that can be at stake. Instability in Macedonia can easily be shifted to neighbouring countries. It is the parties in Macedonia that bear the primary responsibility for the fact that development does not come out of control, but must also contribute to neighbouring countries. The EU, the Council of Europe and the OSCE are important here. The new tensions in Europe, as a result of developments in Russia and the pressure to migrate from the south, must not make us forget the Balkans and the rest of south-east Europe. Norway will therefore continue to support the reform work in Serbia and the other Western Balkan countries. Norwegian priorities are based on their own programmes and are consistent with EU priorities. Norway thus contributes to a common European project. The negotiations with Turkey have been long-standing and challenging for both parties. Turkish EU membership is controversial within the EU, and in recent years has not had the same rapprochement in Turkey as in the past. However, Turkey continues to have a clear objective of becoming a member of the EU. For Norway, cooperation with European countries and the EU is also essential to address migration challenges. As a Schengen country, we have joint responsibility, and we follow the discussion on the EU's migration agenda. As a maritime nation, we are particularly affected. Norwegian ships have made an affordable effort to assist in rescue operations and rescue migrants in distress at sea. The situation is so serious that it requires new and exceptional measures. That is why Norway is using a vessel for the Triton operation. Frontex and Italy are in dialogue on the possible extension of the Triton area southwards towards Libya, and we will support such an extension. However, regardless of the mandate, Triton's search and rescue capacity is now strongly strengthened, and ships serving Triton are already carrying out extensive rescue tasks near Libya. Our ship will therefore in any case be prepared to pursue search and rescue near Libya and where the needs at all times are greatest. We also look at other actions that can be implemented, including outside the Triton area. In the Eastern Mediterranean, we have recently agreed with the Greek authorities to redeploy EEA funds to support the establishment of a reception centre on the island of Lesvos. It is unacceptable that cynical human traffickers are endangering thousands of human lives, while making serious use of migrants' desire to come to Europe. The EU has begun planning a military operation to find, seize and destroy traffickers’ crafts. The aim is to break down the business model of the smugglers and to help save lives by averting deadly shipping on the Mediterranean Sea. It is important that such an operation be carried out in line with international law. In addition, it is important that it does not contribute to exacerbating an already very difficult political situation in Libya and weakens the efforts to find a political solution to the problems there. If there is a specific request from the EU to Norway, it will be dealt with in the same way as other requests for Norwegian strength contributions to international operations. A thorough assessment of the international legal basis is always central to possible Norwegian contributions. In addition, we need to carefully assess the likely effects of such an operation. The terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen this winter are evidence that the internal threat of terrorism is increasing. Internal and external security is closely linked and the situation in the EU Neighbourhood affects internal security. Against this background, the EU recently presented a proposal for a new Security Agenda 2015-2020. In its proposal, the Commission stresses that internal security is primarily the responsibility of the Member States, but that cross-border threats transcend the capacity of individual countries and must be supported by efforts at EU level. The strategy identifies three main areas: firstly, the prevention of terrorism and the fight against radicalisation; secondly, the fight against organised crime; and thirdly, the fight against cybercrime. These are cross-border safety challenges calling for common European action. From the Norwegian side, we will therefore follow the debate closely and contribute to the EU's efforts where we can. Norway will host a European conference on violent extremism in June. One of the key themes of the conference will be how young people are radicalised into violent extremism and how young people play an important role in preventing this. Norwegian Muslim youths have shown leadership with their initiatives for peace and against extremism. No global challenge is more urgent than the climate crisis. No one takes greater leadership in international climate policy than the EU. At the same time, security policy developments in Europe have brought energy security high on the EU agenda, giving further momentum to the climate debate. Following the decisions on the 2030 climate and energy framework last October, the most important issue on the EU energy policy agenda is the formulation of an energy union. In March the Heads of State and Government endorsed the Commission's proposal on the Energy Union, which refers to energy as the fifth freedom. Energy ministers will continue to develop the plans, and by December at the latest, the Heads of Government will assess progress in the work. This tells us that the energy union has the highest priority. There is already a major legislative development in order to create a more efficient energy market. As part of the European energy system, Norway will be affected by EU legislation in the field of energy to a greater extent than we have been accustomed to in the past. Because this is so important for Norway, we have continuously recorded Norwegian positions in these processes, including at the highest political level between the Prime Minister and the EU Council President Donald Tusk. The message is that we support a well-functioning and efficient energy market with appropriate infrastructure. It is essential to ensure European energy security and competitiveness. We have underlined our position as a reliable, long-term and commercial energy supplier to Europe. This applies in particular to natural gas. We also have long and positive experience with power exchanges with our European neighbours. From the Norwegian side, we have also stressed the need for carbon capture and storage to have a place in EU policy, and we are pleased that our views have been reflected. The EU's work on an energy union is positive with Norwegian eyes. The government wants close cooperation and partnership with the EU in the field of energy. At the same time, we must be aware that there are issues where, in Norwegian energy policy, we can have interests other than those of the EU countries. We therefore seek early in EU policy-making to influence developments based on our knowledge, experience and interests as an energy nation. Based on the Storting’s agreement to the GFCF on a new emissions obligation for 2030, Norway’s proposal was submitted to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change at the end of March. As announced in the Communication, we have been in dialogue with the EU on a joint compliance agreement where EU legislation on emission reductions in the period 2021-2030 will also apply to Norway. It is important to exercise influence over the development of this legislation in the future. The regulatory framework covers the further development of the EU ETS, the revision of the EU emission response allocation in the non-quota sector and the discussion on the management of agriculture, forest and land management in the context of climate change. We are holding close dialogue here with Nordic friends, and we will focus on good national consultations on Norwegian views. The quota system is the EU's main instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but the system has not worked optimally. Surpluses of climate allowances have helped to lower the price of allowances, thereby weakening the incentives for conversion and technological development. It is now clear that from 2019 a market stabilising reserve will be introduced, which means that the surplus will be withdrawn from the market and then gradually moved back as demand increases. Norway has supported the introduction of such a market reserve, although we believe that the quota surplus should be reduced by permanent cancellation of allowances. During the year, the Commission will submit proposals for the design of the EU ETS for the post-2020 period. A recording from Norway was submitted in March. In addition to our view on the market stabilisation reserve, it is important for Norway to keep the allocation of free allowances as low as necessary, taking into account the risk of carbon leakage. We also believe that quota legislation should be simplified. Europe needs new economic progress. If we are to maintain our high level of well-being in Europe, we need to cope with global competition with countries with higher economic growth, stronger population growth, lower cost levels – and increasing competence. Europe has a good starting point with its economic integration, its high level of education, strong research efforts and good innovation environments. But it is worth remembering that economic growth in Europe, even before the crisis, was too low to maintain the level of prosperity and well-being. Economic arrows are now finally pointing up slightly in the euro area, but progress is fragile and challenges remain high. In several countries, high unemployment rates and high debt contribute to the dampening of activity. In order to ensure sustained higher economic growth and employment, it is central that Europe implements structural reforms to increase productivity. And, above all, there needs to be more investment in research, innovation and infrastructure to cope with the transition to a more competitive, innovative and efficient economy. Here again, we see common challenges for Norway and the rest of Europe. Greece is a particular concern. In consultation with the Commission, the IMF and the European Central Bank, the Greek Government is working towards concrete reform and budgetary measures designed to counter the crisis. The Greek State has acute financing problems. The remaining loans under the current stabilisation programme with the euro area countries and the IMF cannot be disbursed without agreement with the lenders on measures. A new package of support from the other countries of monetary union, subject to economic reform, may also become relevant. What is happening in Greece is of great importance for the future of Eurocooperation. Everyone wants the ongoing negotiations, which are now in a very intensive phase, to lead to a solution that will bring lasting economic and political stability to Greece and the euro zone. It is also important for Norway. In this respect, I would like to stress that Norway contributes to Greece, in particular through the EEA funds. We're contributing 63.4 million. the euro in the current period. This is equivalent to the current exchange rate above 530 million. kr. Some of the funds are allocated to programmes to address immediate social needs as a result of the economic crisis. During the recent parliamentary elections in the United Kingdom, the economy was the clear main thing. The EU issue played a smaller role in the elections, but it is now clear that a referendum on the EU in the United Kingdom will be held by the end of 2017. Prime Minister Cameron will present his new government's political platform in the throne tomorrow, 27 May. However, there have been several signals in recent weeks that the government will want to conduct negotiations with the EU on UK reform requests as quickly as possible, with a view to speeding up the referendum to 20l6. Representatives of British and European business have also asked for a rapid clarification of EU issues in order to avoid long-term uncertainty. It is up to the United Kingdom to decide its form of association with the EU, but the UK’s relationship with the EU is important for more than the UK. Both EU countries and US authorities have made clear that they still see British EU membership as important for Europe. This is a position we share from the Norwegian side. UK government signals are also now that they want to agree on a reform package that will make the United Kingdom much more committed in the EU. These are positive signals that other EU countries will hopefully respond constructively. A more active United Kingdom in the EU will strengthen European security and the growth of the internal market. In addition, the United Kingdom is an important voice for the EU and an EU that cares more about the major issues and less about the small ones. This is important for Norway. Interestingly, important UK priorities are reflected in the Juncker Commission work programme. Competitiveness is job number one in the so-called Juncker Plan, where the new European Investment Fund is a flagship. The Commission also meets British views on its new Better Regulation Agenda, presented by Vice-President Frans Timmermans on 19 May. The Commission will ensure an in-depth assessment of new legislative proposals, good consultation procedures, transparency and broad involvement, and not least simplification for business and others affected by the legislation. The proposal will strengthen the REFIT simplification programme and establish a new network to improve cooperation on regulatory simplification in Europe. The network shall be managed by Timmermans himself — a clear signal that this work will have a high priority. We see points of contact with the government's efforts to simplify legislation and eliminate time thieves, both for business and citizens. In addition, a major issue for both the United Kingdom and the European Commission is the negotiation of a transatlantic trade and investment agreement, TTIP. Such an agreement will create the world’s largest free trade area and will therefore affect world trade far beyond the EU and the US borders. Increased growth and purchasing power in the EU and the United States as a result of TTIP will also be beneficial for third countries. A TTIP agreement will set standards that can evolve to become global. Therefore, the TTIP has the potential to give new power to the transatlantic community. Norway is not part of the TTIP process, but we can be strongly affected. Norwegian companies can have a weakened position in the US market compared to our EU competitors. Seafood exports to both the United States and the EU are particularly vulnerable. But also other important industries, such as: the supply sector of oil and gas may be affected. It is important for Norway to maintain a high level of protection of workers’ rights, health, the environment and food security. The EU has repeatedly stated that the level of protection will not be lower as a result of a TTIP agreement. Norway and the EU have common interests here. There is little evidence to suggest that the negotiations will be held in 2015, but both parties have stated that they want the most progress during the year. Of course, the government will continue to follow this process closely. We collect relevant information and disseminate Norwegian positions and interests towards the EU and the United States. We have not yet decided how Norway should deal with a negotiated TTIP agreement, but we are working to ensure Norwegian interests and Norwegian freedom of action. And we want to do what we can to contribute to transparency and a fact-based debate on TTIP here at home. The European internal market must also become a digital single market in the future. Today, the market is fragmented and characterised by border barriers. There is much less trade, less exchange of digital services and less trust across borders than one should expect. The transition to a well-functioning digital internal market can bring great benefits to the European economy. In the last decade, ICT stood for 30 p.m. of economic growth in the EU, with 55 pst. in the United EU cross-border e-commerce is currently only 4 pst. of today's digital market. The potential for growth is high, and it is important that Europe is not lagging behind in development. The Commission recently presented its Digital Single Market Strategy. It has three main features: firstly, to improve access to digital goods and services for both businesses and consumers across borders; secondly, to improve infrastructure, safety and trust; and thirdly, to create framework conditions for European industry and business to increase their productivity and growth potential through digitisation. The digitalisation strategy raises major questions of principle. Where we used to call from the landline, today we talk over the web through services like Skype. Where we used to listen to a vinyl record or a CD, we stream the music through an app. Who should own the information that someone likes to listen to jazz? Who shall ensure that the copyright of the jazz musician is recognised and compensated? What requirements should we set for Skype and Telenor, if their services are similar? Building a digital internal market is about how actors in a digital internal market interact with each other, how we can both facilitate innovation and value creation while safeguarding consumers' rights. Our participation in the EU's research and innovation programme, Horizon 2020, is a concrete example of how we are doing a great deal to ensure the future's value creation and competitiveness. Horizon 2020 is the world's largest research and innovation programme, of nearly 80 billion. euro. The possibilities of Horizon 2020 must be addressed by the Norwegian environment. The government's goal is for Norwegian players to win in 2 pst. by means of competitive instruments. When we set such a goal, it's not just to make a good profit from the investment. It is primarily to strengthen our competitiveness and innovativeness, while at the same time raising the quality of research. As is now the case early in the programme period, the economic return is 1.87 p.m. This is a very positive development compared to the previous programming period. It is in Norway's interest that the internal market is also a common labour market. The willingness of people to cross borders to apply for a job contributes to employment and value creation both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. In recent years, as Norway has had a very good economic development, we have seen a large influx of labour from the EEA territory. In the ongoing slowdown in the Norwegian economy, we see that some of the workers are returning home. If you work and pay taxes in Norway, you should also be entitled to sickness and unemployment benefits. Developments in recent years of increased labour migration have led to growth in exports of Norwegian social security benefits. Social security exports, depending on the continuation of labour immigration to Norway, could evolve to become significant, and there may be unfortunate incentives if benefits adapted to a Norwegian cost level are paid to countries where they provide severally better purchasing power. Discussion in several European countries has led the Commission to open a dialogue on the export of welfare services, but of course without compromising the important principle of free movement. Norway participates in this European dialogue. In the course of the year, the Government will present a major communication with an overall approach to the issue of the export of welfare benefits, within the framework of the European discussion. European aviation is developing rapidly and also needs action to ensure growth and fair competition. The driving forces are global and related to market opening, the development of new aircraft types and increased purchasing power. As seen from Brussels and Oslo, a number of demanding challenges arise in relation to equivalent conditions of competition. In the case of flights between EU/EEA countries and third countries, we are at risk of loss of competition by European companies as a result of the receipt by third country companies of public support from their home Member States. The European Commission and Norway have been involved in funding the identification of new forms of employment for pilots and cabin crew. At the same time, the Commission has asked the aviation safety agency EASA to assess whether the cost pressure in the industry could increase the risk of accidents. The Minister for Transport has sent a letter to the previous and the current Commissioner for Transport on the key challenges — with proposals for possible solutions. The Government aims to remain a constructive contributor to the work started by the Commission with a view to providing an aviation package during the coming year. When the role of the oil sector in the Norwegian economy diminishes, the importance of good economic development for our EU trading partners will be even greater. It is therefore also positive for the Norwegian economy that growth estimates for the euro area have been adjusted in recent months. The European Commission is now estimating a growth of 1.5 pst. in 2015. In comparison, the government estimates in the revised national budget that the GDP of mainland Norway will increase by 1.25 pst. this year. Europe is our home market and receives about 80 pst. of total Norwegian exports. If we ignore oil and gas, about 70 pst. of Norwegian goods exports and half of service exports to our European partners. These are known numbers, but they deserve to be repeated. We are facing a tough global competitive reality, and in that sense, European cooperation, through the EEA Agreement, is our main protection and our main opportunity to build both competitiveness and at the same time ensure high standards in the labour market. The EEA Agreement ensures that we have common rules of play with our main trading partners. Without this predictability, we would be more exposed to increasing global competition. Those who wrongly claim that the EEA contributes to the weakening of standards in Norwegian working and business life should consider what it would mean to stand outside the internal market and have to take up the tough competition with Asian economies on their own. Since the establishment of the EEA Agreement, Norway has incorporated more than 10 000 EU directives into Norwegian law. It has served Norwegian economy and jobs well. However, inclusion is too slow, and over the years it has built up a lag of directives and rules that are to be incorporated into Norwegian law under the agreement. The government has addressed this challenge and regards the slow implementation of our EEA obligations as a time thief in management and business, which is subject to temporary market access and lower competitive conditions. As a clear objective, we have a significantly faster treatment of new legislation and are working hard to achieve this. Let me also briefly touch on two important negotiations in the EEA, the negotiations on EEA funds and agricultural negotiations with the EU, the so-called Article l9 negotiations. There is still a high distance between the parties to the negotiations on new EEA funds. The EU has not adjusted its demand for the increase in the overall contribution to a level that allows greater progress in the negotiations. The EEA/EFTA countries have recently submitted a proposal that means that our contribution in the coming period will follow the development of EU funds for similar purposes. I hope this will give the negotiations the necessary momentum. In parallel with this, we have tabled proposals which will improve market access for fish and fish products to the EU. I have again made it clear that improved market access in this important area of Norway is a prerequisite for a satisfactory solution to the issue of new EEA funds. The first meeting of the Article l9 negotiations took place in Oslo on 3 February. The EU did not make specific demands to Norway at the meeting. At the next meeting, which is not yet scheduled, we expect the EU to be more concrete in its demands. The government will then start its work of designing a Norwegian position. In my presentation in November 2014, I discussed the principles on how the role and tasks of the European Financial Supervisory Authority should be made part of the EEA Agreement. This matter has a high priority for the government. However, it is demanding to target the final and binding texts. Internal clearance processes in the EU take time. Both the two-pillar structure of the EEA Agreement and the reasons behind a coherent transnational financial supervision in the EEA must be ensured. For both the EFTA side and the EU, it has been important to use this time to find good solutions, not least since the work on these acts forms the basis for the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of other legal acts in the field of financial markets. However, the pressure to target a solution is increasing, especially from the financial industries in Liechtenstein and Norway. The consequences of the lack of a solution could in the long term be that financial institutions established in an EEA/EFTA country to operate in countries in the EEA territory must establish themselves in EEA countries other than Liechtenstein and Norway. That's why we're laying the foundation of an ambitious plan for progress in the future. We aim to obtain the pre-consent of Stortinget. Consent will be made available once we have reached informal agreement with the EU on the EEA Committee decisions included in the first package of legislative acts and their adaptation texts. EU legislation and policy strongly intervene in Norwegian society. No international actor characterises Norwegian society more than the EU. It is natural because such a large part of the Norwegian economy is dependent on the EU market. When we face major changes in the world around us, of importance to our security, our climate, our economy and our well-being, it is both natural and important that we face these changes in close political cooperation with those who are closest to us in the international community. We can't get out of globalized reality, but we still have a choice: we can shape globalisation, or we can let it shape us. If we prefer the first, we need more international cooperation, more than ever. For Norway, cooperation is under way in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e300	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. No objections have been raised against this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e316	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has raised a matter of ownership by the Ministry of Health and Welfare relating to a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal. The way ownership was carried out, caused such strong reactions in North Moravia and Kristiansund that over 10,000 people went on torches against what happened. This is so visible evidence that this ownership of the state hospitals does not have confidence and legitimacy in the population. This was the background to the decision by the majority of the control committee – all except the Right and the Advance Party – to raise a case. The matter is, as far as I have an overview, unique after the Health Business Act was adopted in 2001. The work of the Committee is therefore important in order to explain how the law is applied. The specialist health service is very important to people. It is comprehensive and demanding, and large financial resources are allocated to help everyone when they need it. The Health Business Act applies to the specialist health service — hospitals — and is a very demanding law. The Health Business Act shall lay the legal basis for the safety of citizens, not least when needed in the event of acute illness and accident. As rapporteur, I have made a thorough and comprehensive approach. Especially the Right Party and the Advance Party have also criticised it. It is therefore not possible for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to represent the entire committee in this introduction. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Center Party, this setting cannot be accurate enough because the law is so flexible for those who are set to take decisions under the law. A control case therefore becomes very demanding. What is finally the certificate of good ownership is whether decisions create confidence and legitimacy in the population, and this sea of the outcome of the process gives a decision that one disagrees with – but has respect – because the work has been trustworthy. Then the work must be done in a transparent manner, that is, based on democratic control, and based on thorough procedural procedures. The first paragraph of Section 17 of the Administrative Act must therefore be complied with, so that the matter is informed as well as possible before a decision is taken. State Council Höie's ownership of the matter has not given the people concerned confidence and legitimacy. As rapporteur of the case, I have therefore worked to get a thorough and factual explanation of the purpose, functioning and practice of the law in this specific case. This would give respect, regardless of what you think about the outcome of the case. I would like to stress that. As far as I have experienced, no one has criticised the setting for an incalculable impact page or fault. The work has been very demanding, because in a number of respects the owner – read: the Council of State – has not complied with the requirements of good administrative practice in public activities. There are clearly different perceptions of whether the organisation of specialist health services under the Health Business Act has been a successful approach. What is clear, at least, is that this is a demanding management model. This case has far more to experience through the knowledge and experience that the case provides. Very many people in More and Romesdal have asked questions about why so much financial resources have been used in the matter. More than 150 million have been mentioned. kr, while it appears to people that the decision on land selection was made in advance. In my view, this is a legitimate and serious question. Such a person shall not use public money. Since the vote is extensive and thorough and marked by great disagreement – where the Progress Party and the Right went so far that they felt there was no matter for the Committee – I would just like to touch on some of the main points in this vote. I would recommend people to read the setting carefully to gain insight into the many fines in the case that form the basis for the conclusions drawn in the setting. State Council Höie said in a letter dated 23 December 2014 that there are ‘misunderstandings as to how good ownership management should be exercised’ and that it is ‘natural and necessary that there is a continuous and close dialogue’. In a letter of 12 January 2015, the Council of State clarified that ‘dialogue, exchange of views and signals other than business meetings are not contrary to the Health Business Act’. In the light of the many unanswered questions raised by these written answers from the Council of State Höie, a case was raised and the Committee decided at its meeting on 20 January to carry out an audit hearing in the case on Friday 13 February. First, I would like to state: the Public Health Act applies to health businesses, cf. § 2 (c) of the Act on Public Procurement applies to the activities of undertakings, i.e. ‘the management body shall ensure that the matter is informed as well as possible before a decision is taken’. This control matter applies primarily to the ownership management of the State Council under the Health Enterprise Act. The Health Business Act was adopted by a decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 6 June 2001. This meant that responsibility for the specialist health service was transferred from the county municipalities to the state. The law established a new governance model in which specialist health services were organised in maritime economic and legal units, called health enterprises and regional health enterprises. Section 1 of the Act states: «The purpose of health undertakings is to provide good and equivalent specialist health services to all those who need it when they need it, irrespective of age, sex, place of residence, economy and ethnic background, as well as to facilitate research and education.» The ownership management according to the Health Business Act is set out in Section 16 of the Act, on the powers of the Business Meeting, where it states: ‘Owners exercise the highest powers of undertakings in business meetings. Owners may not exercise ownership control in undertakings other than business meetings.» I Prop. 120 L for 2011-2012, Changes to the Health Business Act, Chapter 4 makes it clear that the national and political governance of the regional health enterprises in the health enterprise model has led to the public debate on the health enterprise model arguing that there is too little national governance and too little policy governance of the specialist health service. That's what Prop shows. 120 L, point 4.4. that, after consultation on changes to the Health Business Act, the Ministry’s assessment was: ‘The health business model as regulated by the Health Business Act is a very flexible model. The State may choose to exercise ownership of the entities closely so that the entity becomes almost an underlying management body, or the State may act as a highly withdrawn owner and hold business meetings only when required by law.» Further to open Governing Board meetings: The majority of the Committee – all except the members of the Right Party and the Progress Party – will point out that, with effect from 1 January 2002, the Health Business Act was amended by the Act amending the Health Business Act published on 14 December 2012, and in this process a new Section 26a, Open Governing Board Meetings, where it states: ‘Government meetings in undertakings shall be held for open doors unless otherwise provided for by the obligation of professional secrecy or by decisions referred to in the second subparagraph. Where there is a real and factual need, the Management Board may decide to deal with a case for closed doors in the following cases:’;» It is apparent from point 2: «Orientation on a case which is at a preparatory stage in the proceedings of the undertaking.» It goes on to say: ‘The assessment of whether the meeting or parts of the meeting shall be held in the case of closed doors shall be made at the time of the meeting.’;» According to point 13.4.1, following consultation on changes in the Health Business Act, the Ministry’s assessment was as follows: ‘It has emerged from the consultation that closed governance seminars are being held in which governance issues are debated and, in substance, decided. To the extent that such practices lead to the closure of the Governing Board meetings and to the prevention of public transparency in the handling of governance matters, this would be contrary to the proposal of open meetings of the Governing Board. Meetings are held in front of open doors, which means that anyone who wishes to attend may attend and interrogate the meetings, but without the right to speak, propose or vote. There is also general access to referencing from open meetings. Following the hearing, the Ministry has been strengthened in its view that the legalisation of open board meetings can help to support the confidence and legitimacy of businesses.» There has been a debate on exceptions to the general rule that meetings of the Governing Board should be open, in particular the type of derogation for the purpose of providing preliminary information. It is referred to in Chapter 13.4.2.3 of the Innst. 20 L for 2011 to 2012 as follows: ‘On this basis, the Ministry considers that the legislation should allow the Governing Board to consider closing the Governing Board meetings for information on matters which are at an early and preparatory stage of the proceedings.’;» I would like to say that this is a decision that must be made at the time of the meeting in the event and not fail to decide. It is interesting to note that both the Right and the Advance Party believe that this point is not relevant to the matter. In the case of questions relating to the Executive Director, the previous law stated – it was set out in Section 37: «The undertaking shall have an Executive Director appointed by the Management Board, who shall also determine the salary of the Executive Director. The Management Board shall decide to resign or dismiss the Executive Director.’;» In Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000–2001, note to § 37 – which was then paragraph, at present is 36 – reads as follows: ‘The provision provides that both regional health and health establishments shall have an Executive Director. The Executive Director shall be appointed, terminated and dismissed, if appropriate, by the Administrative Board. It is not possible to include in the statutes that the business meeting shall have that authority. If the Executive Director were to be appointed by the Business Meeting, there could be confusion about the Board’s senior management relationship with the Executive Director. The day-to-day manager is the legal designation of the person responsible for the day-to-day management of the undertaking. The law does not prevent the use of other terms in practice, such as the hospital director of health establishments, where appropriate.’ As I said, that is also the wording of today's section 36 of the law. In the case of health enterprises and the health enterprise model, it is demanding. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, refers to the hearing on 13 February. The majority had decided that the hearing should address, but not be limited to, the question: Is ownership management related to new hospitals in Nordmøre and Romesdal in accordance with the Health Business Act? The majority had also decided that ownership management should be assessed at all levels: Health Møre and Romesdal, Health Middle Norway and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The majority indicates that what we're dealing with is a legal field. The Health Business Act has not been in the Supreme Court and therefore there are no such authoritative decisions. Among other things, the committee called Professor Emeritus Jan Fridthjof Bernt at the University of Bergen for the hearing. Prior to the hearing, Professor Bernt had forwarded his note entitled «Controlling competence and responsibilities under the Health Business Act». The majority, with the exception of the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens, believe that this note provides a basis for better understanding the issues related to whether ownership in this case is in conformity with the Health Business Act. On the one hand, Professor Bernt’s note confirms and on the other hand clarifies the understanding expressed in the observations under review and, not least, clarifies the overall intentions and systematics of the law and, in particular, its model of organisation. The majority, with the exception of the Right Party, the Progress Party, the Left Party and the Green Party will point out that the choice of the model organisation for specialist health services is an expression of a conscious choice by the Stortinge to distinguish between the three types of responsibility: health responsibility, administrative responsibility and operational responsibility. With the law, Stortinget has wanted to establish a formal structure that creates a certain degree of arm’s length distance between the responsibility for health policy at the Council of State, the level of administration and the operational level of service provision. This majority cannot see anything other than the fact that the purpose of this action has been to strengthen the local, regional level as responsible decision-making arenas and to prevent the département and the Council of State from being withdrawn and made responsible for various failures and controversial decisions at the administrative and operational level. The majority of the Committee, all except the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, would stress that this is a demanding governance model. The self-divided level of performance at the level of administrative governance, which is again to implement policy choices and strategies decided at national level, is itself well-known for different types of public service. What complicates the matter is that the Storting has chosen to do this in a company law construction. The activities are not anchored in a traditional model of general government, but rather linked to a corporate and corporate model, where interaction is not between different levels of a hierarchical management model, but between three legally sound responsibilities. There is a majority in the Committee, all except the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, who say that the Council of State should deal with the board of health enterprises rather than individuals. This gives all members of the Governing Board the same basis of decision when the matter is dealt with by the Board of Directors and avoids creating the impression that the Governing Council has any form of direct command with the Chairperson, members of the Governing Board or the Director, or claims for personal loyalty from them. Therefore, in the opinion of this majority, there must be procedures in place to ensure that, if a member of the board or an Executive Director receives information or management signals from the Council of State or a body of government, this shall be recorded and communicated without delay to the other members of the board, so as to form part of the joint decision-making basis for the proceedings of the Board of Directors. The same applies if a Chairperson engages in discussions with elected members of the Governing Board in order to reach a common position with the Executive Director. In particular, it is important that such informal contact does not take place in a form which undermines procedural processes in which health care establishments are required to provide a setting on the basis of which decisions are to be taken by business meetings or meetings. Governmental or regional health authority management signals shall be legitimate and important in terms of the alternatives to be explored and assessed, but if they are made to be orders to persons or control what they should think and say, this means that the suspension process is undermined. The same majority view is that nothing must be done at each stage of the procedure leading to a more or less appearance of suspension and decision as a works of ordering. Such suspension must be a maritime opinion of the board of directors of the undertaking concerned, issued on the basis of the mandate given. Neither the Governing Board nor the Director must enter into, or anticipate, the political assessments to be made by the Council of State, as an attempt to respond to management signals or to meet informally disseminated expectations of the Council of State. If, however, a setting is affected by more or less informal steering signals from the government council to the board of directors, or from the board of directors to the director, this must be expressed as an explicit premise for the setting. If this is kept hidden from the board of directors or the public, there is a serious failure in the decision-making basis when the council takes its decision at the business meeting. It could be seen as an attempt to push important disagreements between the Council of State and undertakings, between different undertakings or between the Director and the Board of Directors below the carpet. It will also be seen as an attempt to weaken the resistance to the option that the State wants by producing positions that are significantly influenced by political choices, such as purely professional assessments. This would then have to be regarded as a material error in the proceedings, contrary to the principle of the first paragraph of Section 17 of the Administrative Act, that a case should be disclosed as well as possible before a decision is taken. It would also run counter to the fundamental premise of the relationship between the three levels of governance, which are broken down by the Health Business Act and contrary to general ethical principles of good administration in the investigation and proceedings. The members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party take note of the views I have now expressed and consider that they are not relevant to the matter. It shows that there is a fundamental disagreement, and it is important to clarify what the government parties mean by what they say that this will mean a tighter ownership management and that it will put the provision of owner instructions through the corporate meeting completely out of place. The idea phase shows that there has been a change in this situation while the work in Møre and Romsdal has been done. The Audit Committee has previously examined, on the basis of a report from the National Audit Office, how such projects were implemented. There was strong criticism of this, and it was found that the study showed that the actual choice of development options is largely made before the investigation and analysis of the alternative solutions in the concept phase. Then a new supervisor was adopted for this, and the matter we are now dealing with is the first case after the new supervisor. It is clear from the new supervisor how to proceed. It is quite special that the Council of State has not followed the supervisor on this issue. It's a very special thing, since it's a new supervisor, and it's among other things. a result of the criticism by the National Audit Board and the Audit Committee of past practice by the guidance officer from 2006. It should be borne in mind that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left do not consider it relevant to the case that the decision should be taken in accordance with adopted principles. This must be followed up further. With regard to the implementation of key themes and opinions, one central theme is that of confidentiality. The consultation made it clear that confidentiality is part of what is happening to a significant extent throughout the administration under the Health Business Act. According to the Referral to Consultation, the Council of State said on page 83: ‘I can try an example to illustrate what I mean by this: a director may contact me and say that an assessor should initiate a process of shutting down a maternity ward in a hospital. Everyone sitting here knows that starting such processes is extremely demanding. There's a lot of unrest in your own organization. It would have been of great importance to the authority of their leaders, not least if it is that one knows that such a process would in any case end, for example. that at the business meeting I stopped the process, or that the Storting would oblige me to stop such a process. It must be possible for a director, for example: before a start of that kind of difficult process, to contact me as the Council of State and say: If I start such a process, will it be a hopeless political project, or is it possible to proceed with it? That's good leadership. I must be able to answer it without necessarily having to inform the Storting about such a contact, because then it will lead, to ensure that the political framework around the enterprises works, will not be possible to deal with it." The exercise of confidentiality management is a principle that is valid for private ownership, but this is a matter of state ownership in a democracy. Here it is about the exercise of power over very important decisions, and it follows public responsibility. The exercise of power by the Council of State must be brought to the public. The exercise of power by public policies cannot be carried out in secret. The Council of State demands to be able to follow the principle that power can be exercised in secret. That's what the Stortinget has to decide. The centre party strongly opposes the practice of the Health Business Act in this way. The work on the Idea Phase Report was responsible for Health More and Romesdal. It was very demanding, with very different opinions. The work had been going on for a long time and had after the conditions – and I want to underline: according to the conditions – trust among employees, elected representatives and residents. This was radically changed by the consequences of the letter of 9 October 2014 from the Academic Cooperation Committee and what happened then. The letter was sent to the department by the head of expedition Frode Myrvold. The letter from the Academic Cooperation Committee led to phone calls during the weekend October 10th to October 12th between State Council Höie and Chairman Styve Holte in Health Mid-Norway. The matter was followed up in the hearing of the Control Committee, and Martin Kolberg asked the following questions: «The next thing is one thing we're going to explain later today, that a director was instructed to cancel a director. Is it, in your opinion, a clear violation of the law?" [[...]] Professor Bernt said: ‘Yes, as the Council of State itself refers to this in its answer, so I see it as a clear violation of the law.’ The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Advance Party, refers to what was stated in the hearing, including in the minutes, with regard to what Mr Styve Holte said. She was asked by the undersigned: «Holte, you have now described what has happened. What was your main point was that only one body could have a photo – i.e. § 36. So you said that during that weekend you had a discussion with councillor Höie, and you didn't agree." Styve Holte replied--and now comes a very important point: «In order to be entirely concrete, I aim for what happened when the Council of State asked me to sit as chairman, but would nevertheless decide on the essential tasks of the Board of Directors. It was impossible for me to relate to, and that's why I quit." State Council Bent Höie elaborated this on questions from Martin Kolberg: «As I mentioned in a previous answer, it is quite clear that the Health Business Act § 36 regulates who can appoint or remove the Executive Director, not whether the owner may have opinions as to whether the company is well managed or not. It is therefore clear that in purely formal terms it is doubtful that it is the board that, according to the law, both appoints and assigns the Executive Director. On the other hand, I believe that it is also relatively clear that I, as the owner, can ask the board of directors for concrete measures that are not up to me to decide in the business meeting. I must be at the top responsible for ensuring that the Chairperson and the Board of Directors carry out their tasks through the proper and prudent management of the health region. In this case, as required by law, I have dealt with the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and I have asked her to implement measures that ensure the sound management of the health region." It goes through this clearly that the Council of State has nothing to undo, to say it that way. Since this is a crucial point in this matter of the exercise of ownership by the Council of State, I will go into this in more detail. The facts are clear: Councillor Höie ba Chairman Holte dismiss Executive Director Trond Michael Andersen. She was going to continue in the boardroom. This was to happen without the letter that triggered the decision of the Council of State being sent to the board of directors for processing. Everything was going to happen quickly. That means that a letter sent to the Department on 9 October, leading to the dramatic behaviour of the Council of State on 10 October, must be considered over some time. No information has been provided to the Committee suggesting that this is a staff case. On the contrary, CEO Trond Michael Andersen has received recognition for his reassuring work from the department shortly before this letter was sent. It must be obvious that the Council of State was aware that dedicating CEO Trond Michael Andersen would destabilise Health Mid-Norway just before a difficult decision on land selection in Health Moor and Romesdal, this when the Chairman also made clear that such ownership exercise by the Council of State would not be accepted and that she would resign. The procedure for the owner-management we are currently dealing with was also completely different after Vice-Chairman Ola H. Strand took over the responsibility of the board manager and Daniel Haga was constituted as CEO on 18 October. A number of meetings were now held. As shown by the setting so far: they have been known to the public. In brief, this resulted in that the administrators of Health Møre and Romsdal were not able to present their position in the case before Health Mid-Norway published their recommendation. A number of meetings were held to avoid disagreements. Several board meetings were not publicly known and no minutes were available. The Managing Director of Health Møre and Romsdal was informed that if one stood in the post for more than New Year and ended on his own grounds as adorned by facts, the possibility of a better final agreement would be strengthened. My conclusion: the illegal intervention of the Council of State against the Chairman of the Board of Directors Marthe Styve Holte's responsibility led to destabilization of the entire organisation, with the consequence that the district council's empty elections at the corporate meeting on 19 December lacked trust and legitimacy. What is therefore clear, as the conclusion comes from the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV, is that the Health Company Act § 36 states that it is the Board that is solely responsible for the addition and disposal of the Executive Director. The action of the Council of State is a criminal offence. Furthermore, the majority of the committee, all except the members of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, shows that Health Møre and Romesdal had been given the task of investigating the idea phase of a new hospital in the North Sea and Romesdal. The procedure shall be for healthcare undertakings to make an investigation and to make their views known on a professional and economic basis, as advice from the healthcare undertaking to the regional health undertaking and the Council of State. The regional health undertaking receives a professional economic advice from the health undertaking. On the basis of this Council and its own assessments, the regional health undertaking shall advise the Minister for Health on the best solution. On the basis of these Councils, the Minister of Health and Welfare is making its maritime decision. The majority indicate that the law presupposes that these advice and decisions should be transparent and public. The majority indicates that the board of Health Mid-Norway and the board of Health Møre and Romsdal chose to try to reach agreement in closed events, before Health Møre and Romsdal were ready with their investigation and adjustment to the board. The majority note that the Health Business Act Section 26 on Board Meetings and Section 26a on Open Board Meetings are not met. The majority would also point out that it is unacceptable that, in this phase, the views of the Council of State are being asked in detail, with the aim of adapting to this view. Furthermore, in our conclusion, which everyone, with the exception of the members of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left, is behind, we believe that if there is a professional disagreement between the different levels of responsibility, then this should be brought to the public and not be obscured. This majority believes that this is a prerequisite for the governance of the specialist health service to be subject to democratic control and for obtaining legitimacy in the population. This majority cannot accept processes where the assessments of the underlying levels are not available and where consensus is sought when assessments are different. Finally, this is a very serious matter for the Council of State, Höie. There is a strong global criticism, where the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV stand together throughout the entire setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e485	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e488	I was just thinking about a preparation. I suppose the representative will answer yes to both questions, but to be quite clear, does the representative and the representative's party have confidence in the Council of State? And question 2: Although the representative believes that the proceedings at the final stage have not been followed, does the representative and his party believe that the hospital location election still stands? It agrees with yes or no for my part, but I would like to have a clarification as to whether there is both trust in the Council of State and yes that the localisation elections are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e493	These are important questions. The Central Party has not distrusted the Council of State. What we've been through has not gone into the actual location of the hospital. We've been dealing with the constitutional. It is our responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e498	But after all the critical remarks and all the constitutional considerations, we can safely assume that no constitutional breaches have occurred, so that it leads either to criticism decisions or mistrust, nor have such errors been made in the proceedings, in the view of the Centre Party, which were to indicate that the localisation elections should be re-opened. The choice of location of the hospital is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e503	The Committee has reviewed the constitutional situation. We have looked at the Public Health Act, the Administrative Act and the Health Business Act. The Labour Party, the Senterpartiet and SV have pointed out that the behaviour of the Council of State in relation to Section 36 of the Act involves offences. We're on it. We have also pointed out a number of critical aspects. We learn that we don't have the Left with us particularly on it, sail whether there are critical aspects that are also pointed out by the Left, but, as I said, we have been dealing with the Constituent and have not discussed the choice of empty in that sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e508	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e511	It is not disputed that a government council can decide where a hospital should be located. That is not what we are debating here today either. But there is a sense of trust between the magnificence and the government, and not least between people and politicians, that it is happening in an open and democratic way. In this case, it did not happen. A long process to ensure that all parties were included and that their vision was well lit before final decision was taken was punctuated by the Council of State. If the Council of State is to decide, it must at least be open. One cannot create a process in which to look like all of them, and apparently achieve a result that is the same as own desire. In the case of the choice of hospital grounds, the process has been inexhaustible, and the decision on Molde lacks confidence. In a matter that has been on our minds for a long time, it is unfortunate. Everyone can fight for a hospital or an empty one. We in the Control Committee do not decide on the choice of land, but on whether the process until the decision has followed laws and regulations. No matter what an empty well, someone will know that it was the other empty that was chosen, and then it's important that the process has been right, because there's probably few things that arouse such commitment as hospitals. Sickhouses are the very foundation of security in our lives. For us social democrats, it's always been a core issue that the right to necessary health care should be a good offer to everyone, wherever you live. Closeness and good communication to the hospital provide security for people. Nor can we be surprised that people are committed to adopting the location of hospitals. I would like to thank the case manager for a thorough work on the matter. However, I would like to repeat briefly some of the main points and the background so that we are discussing the matter here today. Saka starts on 26 August with the State Council Höie saying that he is rather against Molde, and the director of Health Mid-Noreg is told about this. In October, more specifically on 9 October, the Ministry of Health and Health received a letter from ASUR Centre on Director Andersen. On the following weekend, the Council of State has several conversations with director Holte, where he asks her to give up Andersen while she is going to sit on her own. This causes Holte to move. The laws make it clear that it is the board of directors of the enterprise that has the capacity to appoint and appoint daily leaders. The fact that the state council here calls the director and asks him to cancel the daily rent is contrary to the law. On October 18th, Daniel Haga was constituted as Managing Director, and Ola Strand, who was then a Vice-Chairman, took over as Chairman. On 10 and 11 November there was a preliminary meeting and a joint meeting with the board and the administration of Health More and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway on the Gardermoen. There are no minutes from these meetings, but in the hearing, Managing Director Astrid Eidsvik said that the status of the Idea Phase Report was reviewed, and that there was a reward for the work done by Health More and Romesdal. Astrid Eidsvik was responsible for the idea phase work and decided on the plot selection and construction of a new hospital in More and Romesdal. On November 17, Eidsvik was called by Managing Director Daniel Haga in Health Mid-Noreg, who said he had landed in Molde – and as Eidsvik said in his hearing: ‘I expressed my great surprise that he had made up his mind without the conclusion of Health Møre and Romsdal.’ What's going on? Yes, more meetings and conversations. No protocols. The weight of the Idea phase report will be changed, and Eidsvik will notify you that it will disappear. In the press release from Health Møre and Romsdal on 4 December, it says that Eidsvik has withdrawn. On the 17th and 18th December, there is the board meeting, first in Health More and Romesdal, then in Health Mid-Norway. On December 19th there is a corporate meeting of 15 minutes, and they choose Molde. There are strong reactions from people, and questions are asked about what has happened. 10,000 are on a torch train in Kristiansund. The press is full of lookups, with questions as to whether this has been done correctly and claims that it has not done so. The control committee sends letters to Höie, we open the case and have a hearing. The Control Committee finds that there has been an undisputed process of lawmaking, and that the case of removal of daily rents is contrary to law. As I have already mentioned, our criticism of the Council of State in this specific matter is not meant to prevent the Council of State from, and should, dialogue with the health regions between the Enterprise Meeting. The question is when such a dialogue is controlled to take place in the business meeting, or when different signals and information are of such a nature that not only individuals but also the whole board and the general public should be involved. The Norwegian people own and control hospitals through the State Council, which is responsible for the Stortinget. Governments can, and must, govern, but it must be done in openness. Of course, government councils and health regions can discuss issues in informal dialogue, but an informal dialogue should not be used for hidden direct management. There is a big difference between whether a government council in the governance dialogue follows up a governance signal that is already legally given in the corporate meeting and is publicly known, or whether the government council is giving a new governance signal on controversial issues where the health agency is to provide an independent setting that the government council will later deal with in the public space, either in the corporate meeting or put before the Storting. For example, it is quite natural for the Council of State to have a dialogue on the extent to which the Board of Health in the region complies with the economic and quality requirements agreed by the Stortinget and the Enterprise Council, but it is unacceptable for the Council of State in a secret dialogue to ask the Health Service to come up with a specific position on a matter which the Minister of Health will later deal with and submit to the Stortinget. Of course, when the majority of the Committee, all the non-receptive members from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, decide that the Government Council should stick to the Health Agency’s board and not to individuals, this does not prevent the Government Council and the Ministry from having a running dialogue with leaders and directors in order to follow up the existing governance signal, but only when new information or new governance signals are given that this must be passed on to the entire board, as the remarks describe. The most practical way will then be to use the open letter, mission document or business meeting, depending on the contents of the control signal or information. Then the public will also have insight into what is disseminated. The point of having different levels is that different views at different levels appear for the general public, and not least for the Storting, which is a legitimate authority. Hidden processes for creating equal settings are not acceptable. Health Møre and Romsdal had been commissioned to outsource the idea phase of a new hospital in North Moravia and Romesdal. The board of Health Mid-Norway and Health Moor and Romesdal chose to try to become some in the closed event before Health Moor and Romesdal were ready with his attitude to the board. And the showroom was closed, not open, as promised. At this stage, it was also asked what the Council of State meant – under the hand – for the purpose of adapting to this view. It's unacceptable. If there is a professional disagreement between the different levels of responsibility, this shall be brought to the attention of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e564	I refer to the conclusions of the vote, where the majority – among others. The representative, together with the rest of the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, says that: ‘will stress that in the final phase of this case, the principles of procedure under the Health Business Act, the Administrative Act and the Public Health Act have not been followed. The majority consider this to be particularly serious in a case of such great and important importance to the population’. When one considers that the whole of three laws have been broken, what are the consequences that the representative should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e575	I think it is very important in this case – as the case-speaker did well – that we have gone through the whole process that led to the decisions: check whether the process followed the laws and instructions that are. We have seen that the process has been clean. The removal of directors is contrary to the law. Secondly, we have said that the processes under the law have been inexhaustible. We thought it was critical, and we have pointed that out in the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e582	Yes, I got that with me, because it says here, we have come to understand that the Workers' Party believes that three laws are broken. But that was not my question. My question was: So when you think that both the Health Business Act, the Administrative Act and the Public Health Act have been broken – that they have not been complied with – what is the consequence of this? You'll find out. Does the Workers' Party intend to do anything about it? Does the Workers' Party propose anything from that? What is the consequence of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e587	What I am quite clear about is that this must have consequences for future hospital cases. As the case-speaker also points out, there are no legal reviews of this. One has to stick to the settings and multiple settings from Stortinget, and the consequence is that there will be proper processes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e592	Just to be quite clear: there are no consequences even if you believe that three laws are broken, and you also have full confidence in the State Council from the Workers' Party and believe that the hospital location choice stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e597	As I said very clearly in my introduction: the control committee does not care about the location of the hospital. It is not the task of the control committee. The task of the control committee is to verify the correctness of the process until the decision has been taken. We've reviewed it, we've written it in the notes, I've referred to it in the case. We still have confidence in the Council of State, and it is up to the Council of State for future assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e602	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e605	Usually we thank the case rapporteur for presenting the case. Today, I think I should limit myself to thanking for the considerable commitment he has shown both in the Chamber and during the committee's examination of the matter in their hearings and in their deliberations. We need dedicated participants in democracy, so it's a quality. I want to focus my article on five points, as well as a summary. First of all, was this case justified in the Committee on Control? From our side, we expressed very early on that there were no circumstances that would justify a control case for the Storting in a matter that was up to the Council of State to decide. We still do not share the reason that is repeated in the position that is on the table here today, namely that there should be ‘unexplained formalities in the decision of the Council of State on the location of a new hospital in the North-Møre and Romesdal which was to refer the matter to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs’. We have been strengthened throughout the process that what was a legitimate decision stands as a legitimate decision. On the other hand, some confusion has spread into our handling of the case. It was unclear what control theme the Committee had on the table, what conclusions to draw from the findings, and this even more so as to make it very clear, even after the consultation date, that the decision on hospital placement had been taken by the appropriate body without any substantive shortcomings or any other procedural issues that might affect the validity of the decision. I have to say that the activation of the Control and Constitutional Committee should, as far as possible, be based on an understandable constitutional basis, even though it can be understood that some parties have a desire to invite them to fight for decisions. The case-making in itself is a talking expression that you really didn't have a case, but was looking for one, one thing you would have to build up from the ground up. I also have to say that the lack of restraint in terms of problematizing conditions around and during the process, small and large, has led us to have an attitude from the committee that blows all volume limits. 25 636 words are used in the Committee's own comments. Technical summary is not included. I also believe that, for our further work, we must remind ourselves of the second paragraph of Section 31 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, first and second sentences: «All settings shall be as short as possible and shall contain in substance the comments of the Committee. The settings shall not re-print documents to which an equal reference can be made.» The size is usually dealt with as file documents and propositions which are quality assured by the investigative instructions. However, in the so-called initiative cases, there will be more room for vision, speculation and not fully documented claims. The information and completeness requirements that must rightly be imposed on those who make proposals for the Storting – from the government, from the departments or from our special bodies such as the Riksaudition – these quality requirements should also, as far as possible, be a norm for the documents which the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of all themselves submits to plenary sessions. In particular, some comments made as majority comments by the Committee, which fortunately do not have a majority in the Chamber, contain rather extensive interpretations and understandings of the key provisions of, for example, administrative law which is innovative and quite eye-catching. There is also a deficiency in the setting that you do not refer to the generally accepted rules of the game when you refer to the law, but that it very quickly slips over in how some representatives have perceived them personally, and how else you think they should be. The second main area I want to spend time on here is: Who is going to make the decision about new buildings and the choice of places for hospitals? Under the Health Business Act, the lowest appropriate level of competence for deciding to set up a new hospital is the enterprise meeting of the regional health enterprise. Only the Council of State decides. This is equivalent to what we might otherwise have more training in assessing, namely the general meeting of limited liability companies. It's like assimilating the companies where the council is general meeting, precisely because the state owns all the shares. According to the laws, it is clear that it has never been intended that such a significant investment decision as the location of hospitals in North Moravia and Romesdal should be taken by a regional health company alone outside the Council of State. The basis for government governance with health enterprises is based on ownership of the institutions. The organisation of health services by the State cannot be done in such a way as to undermine the democratic principle of governance. The democratic governance logic is based on the addition of top management to politicians with a democratic mandate. In the state, this is reflected in the ministerial responsibility. The Council of State is the head of the Ministry and has the competence to decide on any matter for which the Ministry is responsible. A production of the Health Business Act must take place with a view to the coherence with the State's other management system, which is actually set there in order to realise the unconditional right of the Stortinge to be realised, for example. its health policy. Among the very many words in the vote, there have also been some expressions of hitherto unknown governance principles, some of which have gathered a majority in the Committee, for example. the view that underlying health enterprises should have the closest ‘Exclusive decision-making authority as matters are classified in terms of health policy, management and operation, by the Ministry being thematically excluded from governance in certain fields by undertakings to which funds are allocated’. This is a position that is not in accordance with the administrative law, is not in accordance with the governance principles of the State, nor would it be practicable to do so. I believe that at the end of this point we have to conclude with what is going to happen when we complete the matter here today and attach that protocol, and that is: there has not been anything in the committee's hearing or examination that suggests that the decision on the place was not taken by a competent body on a sound basis, although, of course, the disagreement – often in democracy – existed in certain circles. Nor has anyone, I am aware, gone to court to try out the validity of the decision. It simply means – it is so simple sometimes – that the decision on the location of the hospital in Molde is final. Then we got a visit from the case rapporteur on why the Right and Advance Party and, in some cases, the Left have delineated the matter and referred to the issues that have been raised in the vote, as the case is irrelevant. The readers of the configuration would say that the setting itself provides most – and many – examples of this. But I can give one within the time frame that we have: we believe that it is of little relevance to the matter when committee members begin to express themselves on how they would like to see new rules work and new practices should be – how, for example, they should be. had ideally seen that the communication between the board and the owner was to take place on a daily basis, which is therefore not rooted in the existing framework. An example of such statements is the opinion by which some members of the Committee wish the members of the Management Board and the Executive Director to be obliged to ‘draw down’ and bring ‘information and governance signals’ to the Management Board. So it's going to set up a much more detailed ownership system than you would have imagined before. Another example is the observations concerning the Public Service Act, but also Section 17 of the Administrative Act that a case should show any disagreement in order to be ‘declared as best as possible’. It must be due to an error reading. Paragraph 17 is not a transparency or information requirement, but there is a qualitative requirement for the decision-making basis wherever the premises come from. The fourth point I would like to highlight is also a question that was raised in the statements by the rapporteur and the representative of the Labour Party. The Health Business Act has been profoundly limited to certain types of cases by the Governments. It is exemplified with the staff case we had when it came to the Executive Director of Health Mid-Norway. Paragraph 36 of the Health Business Act empowers the Management Board to take decisions to terminate or dismiss the Executive Director. It appears from the motives that the option was to assign the employment authority to the ministry, i.e. to make this a direct staff case under the Council of State. The reason for not doing so was that one was afraid that the Council of State authority would pass on to the Executive Director who would thus be given a position higher than that of the Board of Directors. You didn't want that, because it would also break with normal management logic in most organizations. In any case, we can see that the problem of division of labour between these bodies has not been tried by law. The wording does not solve the question of whether the Board's competence here is exclusive, but in Prop. 120 L for 2011-2012 — the legislative proposal — no derogation is required for any types of case when it is underlined: «Owners can instruct the board in all matters, both general and individual. This may, in principle, be done at any stage of the matter, whether the matter is dealt with by the administration or has come to the board of directors.’;» The wording of the provision refers to the ability of the board to apply the instruments of employment, dismissal and dismissal of the employment environment law. In the present case, the parties have concluded an agreement on the conclusion of the contract of employment, a private law agreement outside the work environment review system. It is therefore a private law agreement that does not follow the logic otherwise pointed out in Section 36. But no matter what one might think of this, it is the courts that have to decide on this, not the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Nor can we, with authority requirements, determine the scope of legal provisions without support in safe administrative practices or case-law. The Committee itself has not been given the power to make legal clearances, and it would therefore be very thin on the basis, to say it cautiously, of criticising a Council of States as to whether a specific procedure complies with a legal provision, because it would just represent the Committee's own exceedance of its competence. I don't think that's what I wanted to put on the control committee. It is therefore necessary to provide a better basis for claiming that the Council of State has not acted under the Health Enterprise Act, and such a conclusion is also not supported by the majority in the Grand Duchy, even though the opinion of the majority of the Committee can be found. Finally – as the last point – I would like to say a little bit about the suitability of control cases to design political leadership in sectors other than the control and constitution committees. In the observations of the rapporteur, there was an invitation to many issues and, in particular, many stimulating, but nevertheless detours of a thoughtful nature that it might have been interesting to pursue. But some of us have thought that this has been beyond the control committee as a natural understanding of its function. Despite the Committee's indisputable qualities, the Committee is not the appropriate body to oversee hospital locational choices, nor to give detailed instructions on how to have practised the health business model yourself or, for that matter, whether the state acquisition of hospitals in 2001 was a sensible thing. Similarly, the Committee on Control and Constitution would weaken its credibility as a supervisory body if it also endeavoured to review the economic and technical assumptions for valid decisions taken in departments and health establishments. Such opinions, which were withdrawn from a professional context and replaced by the Committee's own assessments, would lead to misunderstandings of the responsibilities and weaken the professional competence of the decision-making body. As a summary, with regard to the five themes I have touched on, we will note from our side the question of whether the control case was justified: No, it was not. On question two, who will decide on new construction and location for billion-class hospitals, the answer is: the Council of State. If the Health Business Act limits governance to certain types of cases: No, not in principle, but perhaps in practice. And last of all, I was also concerned that the suitability of the control cases to design political leadership in policy areas other than those for which the control committee is responsible, nor is there any benefit for good practice and government in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e674	Right in their comments, and it was also referred to in the post by the representative Tetzschner, that they believe that the Council of State can go into all things without exception. Even though Professor Bernt was very clear that the fact that the council asks the director to cast the director, is a crime, will not be right in it. Is it actually Right that it's entirely okay that a councillor on a weekend calls up a board of directors and asks him to tell the director, at the same time as a board of directors to continue? Does the representative of the Right consider that there is a good way to pursue human resources policies in healthcare businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e681	This topic was promoted during the hearing, and it was clear that Professor Bernt had his view of this, while we presented it during the hearing, was the proposition that was the legal motive for the Health Business Act last time it was audited, Prop. 120 L for 2011-2012. We believe that the wording of the proposition as a legal motive must weigh more heavily than what a professor says during a hearing. If you want to provide a full legal clearance in this area, we have other ways to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e688	Thank you for the reply to the representative. Even in letters from Council of State Höie on 13 January, it says: ‘It is therefore clear that it is purely formal that it is doubtful that it is the Governing Board which, according to the law, both appoints and appoints the Executive Director’. Does my representative Mr Tetzschner still agree that the Council of State can go in and do so, if he so wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e701	Yes, and this is a clear parallel in ordinary limited liability companies – then the owner can express himself to the board at any time. There it is that if the board disagrees with the informal signals it receives, it may ask to be instructed, without there being any conflict between the owner and the board for that reason. It is precisely in order for the Governing Board, if it is not itself in the hands of the decision, to be able to show that a general meeting instruction has been given on this point. It creates very neat relationships. It's not escalating a conflict between the board and the owner, but it creates notority. When this instruction is not requested, on the contrary, it can be assumed that the board has – as its own opinion – the ideas, suggestions, potential descriptions provided by external communication, including the owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e708	First of all, I must thank the representative Tetzschner for his quality and commitment – that was at the top. Since it was not necessary or necessary, it is not easy to thank for the job, so it was no surprise. I am also not surprised by the demeaning comments on ‘roadways of a thoughtful nature’. The formed Right Notices probably this, and I expect that the formed Right Sea will go to the source and read the document and see if there is any evidence for such sarcasms. In fact, no one has criticised the setting for incalculable impact pages or errors. What the representative Tetzschner says is words without concrete content – some content came, it is that one goes against immediately writing it down. Well, that's not surprising, because that's what the whole culture is, one should be governed in a way that can't be traced. My question is, was it wise for the Council of State to ask Governor Styve Holte to sit, while she was going to kick Andersen on behalf of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e717	When using words such as ‘timely’, ‘proper’ and ‘practical’, rubber terms are really on the side of the control committee, namely whether there has been an excess of competence, whether or not there is a cause for concern in the decision. However, we should not go in and simulate ourselves – the individual members of the Control Committee – being in the place of either the Council of State or other actors. That question will then fall outside what we see as a natural control task.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e722	I understand the answer so that at least it was okay – it was okay, it was completely curative, this can continue. Int. 62 L for 2012–2013 for Prop. 120 L for 2011–2012 under 2.2 Steering there was a note from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party: 'The political responsibility will still not be as clearly placed and Parliamentaryly anchored as these Members wish.' That was the position in the opposition. Is there anything to point out in the law or its practice today, according to the Right’s opinion, after the instruction that has now been given on all the excursions that can be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e734	I'm glad that my post was perceived as instructive. We're going to develop that further. As far as political responsibility is concerned, I believe that our attitude has just underlined that, last and foremost, in the government governance model, it is the Stortinget – The Stortinget is not a collapsed assembly, it is composed of the voters – which is the most democratic, representative body we have. If I can say that, I have to say that very much of the rapporteur's attitude is about weakening the governance of political management by instructing the underlying health business levels almost as if they were independent levels of government. There is no support in the decision-making documents and was supported when the State acquired the hospitals from the county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e743	It's a basic misunderstanding. There is nothing in what I have written that weakens the government's governance. However, the governance options shall be transparent, as demonstrated by a well-worked setting. Otherwise, we are aware of Storting's will. The majority is right, but the majority is not always right. The majority also have to deal with Norwegian law and what is the constitutional basis, and that was exactly what the Right in opposition said should be clarified: 'The political responsibility will still not be as clearly placed and Parliamentaryly anchored as these Members wish.' It was that time. But when you get in position, it's okay. It's a cross of thought for many, that one says one thing and implements another thing. There is a key point in creating trust: one must get away from such conduct.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e755	The cross-section of thought I see here is that one cannot strongly argue that the underlying health companies have almost a veto right, and one depends on their consenting views on the leadership of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which ultimately comes from the Storting, this body we are now in. This is where I believe that the lack of consistency occurs, because one will both hold the Council of State responsible for the implementation of the Health Policy of the Storting, while saying that it will largely depend on enthusiastic reception at levels below. Sometimes you disagree, locally, regionally and in the department, and the Stortinge can only deal with your own health policy and your own health minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e760	Only one last line: this process led to a torch train in Kristiansund with over 10,000 participants – 10,000 participants. I don't know how many people there would be here in Oslo to have a corresponding size in relation to the population of Oslo. It's interesting to see that this doesn't make any sense. It was said from the Right in opposition that it was going to end this. One would implement it in a way that was respected marine if it was difficult. Isn't there something about the Right Soul when 10,000 go on a torch?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e772	I don't think anyone has ever given a guarantee that democratic decisions are immediately received with enthusiasm by those who feel that they haven't got their primary position through. It is precisely in the legitimacy of democracy that we find ourselves with decisions that we do not immediately agree with. So it might be a little counterfactual to think: what if the opposite decision had been made and you had triggered 15,000 in a torch somewhere else? But it is up to the Storting to give leadership that enables the Council of State to make the decisions that are attached to the Council of State and that the system is also dependent on being taken. I think that on this occasion you might also take the opportunity to congratulate yourself on the power of action that is at least in the Ministry of Health and Health under its current management.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e779	There were a lot of questions here, but I'm going to ask you a card. Does the representative think that the Council of State could in any way have helped to ensure greater legitimacy of the decision, especially since some serious allegations were made at the business meeting in Health More and Romesdal? If so, does the representative consider that there are no problematic aspects to this matter at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e785	I believe that it is not if you stick to the control theme. Now there are people who use the word "legitimite" as a slightly finer word for decisions you give yourself. It is not that simple in a democracy. You have to figure out that decisions are made that you didn't immediately have as your first choice, but that you still accept. The primary task of the control committee is to find out whether there is any legal delay in the decisions that have been taken. That's our job, and that's where we've found that there's nothing to do with the decisions made by the Minister of Health in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e792	Very briefly: I wonder if the representative has any comment when he believes it was not possible for the Council of State to ensure greater legitimacy of the decision, because when the Council of State got a similar question in the hearing, the Council of State replied that one could ‘question the wisdom of making it so quickly’. Does the representative see that there is room to take some self-criticism at any point here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e797	Just that quote illustrates perfectly what our function is, and what the Minister of Health's function is. It is clear that if he was asked for his more detailed duties within the powers he has, he may probably have views that things should have been done before or after, or more or less. That is not the task of the control committee. We have to make sure that the legal framework, the decisions of the Storting and the assumptions are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e802	In a later article here in Stortinget in this debate, I will come back to a number of the claims made by Tetzschner in his speech. The line doesn't make sense. I still feel that the representative Tetzschner on behalf of the government party Right has not answered clearly whether he believes that there is a new understanding of the law that the Council of State can intervene in personnel matters, as he did in the Andersen case. I just want to hear very clearly whether the representative of the government party now actually believes that it is a practice that is now to be set up, that the Council of State can proceed in this way, and that the directors of health companies across the country must be prepared for such intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e809	As I was in a previous answer, the relationships are not so complicated in the relationship between a government and an owner. That's how you can make all the recordings you want – in an earlier phase, it was about living a completely separate life. The board also has certain mechanisms that it can use if it feels that it does not have the signals it receives from its owner. Then they can ask for guidance, without any drama in it. When there is a constant reference to government parties, I have to say that in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs we are elected by the Stortinget to fill a certain control function and also, of course, are interested in constitutional issues and matters of a more constitutional nature. It's not the government representative Kolberg's approach when he talks to the undersigned. He then talks to a colleague in the committee, where we play an important role in Storting's inner life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e818	I'm on the verge of who I'm talking to! I have it quite clear to me. However, in a number of other contexts, he claims that what has been said by the majority in this matter is something that will put new premises and give new governance if it is to get a majority here. This must also apply to the statements of the representative Tetzschner if the same weight is to be assigned. So one more time: it's not only that the council asked Styve Holte to keep going, but he also made it clear that if she didn't do as he said, she had to go. Both of them. Then I ask again: is it the case that the representative Tetzschner – at least on his own behalf and with his knowledge of the law – believes that this is the way in which the current Council of State and the future Council of State should act in the human resources of health business boards?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e825	According to the setting I have referred to two times in the past, no thematic exception was made for which issues the owner could address. It even applied to matters that were at the pre-control stage – that is, at any stage of the process and in any case. Then it can be said that if you want to have more direct and concrete influence on the Governing Board's agenda and specific agenda, there are mechanisms that take into account the notoriety of the emerging board, which believes that they do not have a decision – there is also a point here. When you do not protest, you formally stand for the decision you make yourself. There is no doubt that the agreements concluded have been concluded within the framework of the Governing Authority. Then you get to think about what inspiration they might have had from others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e832	Martin Kolberg – to the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e835	Yes, the last line, because we obviously don't come anymore. But what is saying about what the representative Tetzschner says here, both in the line change with me now and in the previous line changer, is that he does not respond specifically to the question. It's because it's hard for him to answer that question. He doesn't like it, and that's because this is a difficult thing. Now the Council of State is about to have the word, and then we'll hear what the Council of State says on this topic. For this we cannot let go until this debate is over, we must know specifically what the government's view of the matter is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e840	If we're going to interpret a question out of it, I'd say that the questions from my good committee colleague are asking to simulate functions and roles that I as a committee member don't have. I am not the one making those decisions, I am not the one in contact with these boards, and therefore I will not give any instructions on how to make concrete progress in these matters, because it is precisely within the powers of the Minister of Health. And since this is probably the last round of this round, I also have to say that I'm amazed – not so much about the comments, because they don't do so much damage, it would have done more damage if it was a bill, but here it's just a control case that boils down to being a location choice. But we have noticed that the Workers' Party uses the case rapporteur very, very far here as a kind of spiritual leader in the administrative court.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e845	So the chord shift is definitely over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e849	I would also first like to commend the case rapporteur for a very strong and good commitment to the matter – although I do not share some of the conclusions. This case concerns the ownership management of the Ministry of Health and Health related to the new North-Møre Hospital and the Romesdal Hospital. The case concerns the more specific ownership management of the decision on the location of the new hospital. Thus, this case does not concern a detailed assessment of the decision itself to build a common hospital or the choice of hospital premises, as this is outside the remit of the control and the constitutive committee. The joint hospital decision and the location of the hospital have received considerable local attention, especially in the northern part of the region, starting with Kristiansund. The focus has been on how the owner, the Ministry of Health and Welfare at the Council of State, has exercised its ownership control of underlying agencies in the process of reaching a decision on land selection for new, future joint North-Møre and Romesdal hospitals. On the basis of strong local involvement in the matter, as well as many local media and national media recordings, where it was claimed that there was unclean play in the decision-making process on the location of a new hospital, the matter began with the Committee's decision of 18 December 2014 to send a letter with questions to Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie on the matter. The Committee has the background to the letter, inter alia: referred to the public attention given to the location of a new North-Møre Hospital and Romesdal, and the Committee asked the Council of State to answer further questions as to how the Ministry of Health and Welfare had been formally or informally involved in the process of selecting a new hospital site. In the letter of the Council of State of 23 December, the Council of State answers that there are many misunderstandings as to how the management of ownership between the Ministry, as the owner of the regional health enterprises, and the regional health enterprises, as the owners of the local enterprises, are anchored in the law. The Council of State refers to Section 16 of the Health Business Act and points out that it clarifies that exchanges of views and views between the Council of State and the Boards are not legally binding on regional health enterprises when the views are not expressed in the Business Meeting. The Council of State also points out that it is quite natural and necessary that there is a continuous and close dialogue between the administrations and the Council of State, and in the same way it is natural and necessary that there is a continuous and close dialogue between the management of regional health enterprises and the administration of the Ministry. By letter of 6 January 2015, the Committee of State Councils asked for an explanation of the kind of management signals that may be given outside the business meeting. A clarification was also requested as to whether the Minister of Health gave an instructive signal to the former director of Health Mid-Norway RHF, Marthe Styve Holte. The Council of State replied to the letter of 12 January by stating that dialogue, exchange of views and various kinds of signals other than business meetings are not contrary to the Health Business Act. I would quote from the Council of State's statement. ‘Whether signals or views have been communicated in the open or enclosed space, this shall not be considered as legally binding for the health business or regional health business boards. If I do not agree with a decision, or if I see the need for a decision that the board of directors does not take, I have to make decisions at the business meeting. Both the Council of State and the members of the Board of Directors are well aware that ownership management can only take place at corporate meetings. This is a fundamental prerequisite for all contacts between the Ministry and the regional health establishments and the contact between the regional health establishments and health establishments. The Health Entrepreneurship Act does not only oblige the Council of State and the Ministry to take binding decisions at the Enterprise Meeting. The law also obliges the boards of regional health establishments to take decisions on their own grounds. The members of the Management Board will be able to emphasise signals given outside the business meeting, but must nevertheless take the decisions they consider to be appropriate on an independent basis.» The Control and Constitutional Committee decided on 20 January to keep an open hearing of control, calling both current and former government councils, and directors and directors of the regional health undertaking and the health undertaking, as well as other relevant persons. The audit hearing confirmed that the boards of the regional enterprise and the enterprise have been trained in their roles and responsibilities as directors of the enterprises. One must therefore expect the members of the board to be aware of the formal status of signals given by the overall authority in respect of the decisions to be adopted by the Management Board on an independent basis. This seemed to be understood through the hearing. The Progress Party did not at any time agree with the Committee's conclusion that there have been unexplained formal relations in the Council of State decision on the location of a new North-Møre Hospital and the Romesdal Hospital, which was to make its own case in the Control and Constitutional Committee. However, the party to the progress has joined the hearing in the case, not least in the light of the case’s attention. With the response of the Council of State Bent Höie to the Committee's letter, it became clear that the decision on the choice of places for a new hospital was taken by the appropriate body, without any substantive deficiencies or procedural constraints which would affect the validity of the decision. Under the Health Business Act, the lowest possible decision-making level for setting up a new hospital is the enterprise meeting of the regional health enterprise, where only the Council of State decides. This corresponds to the general meeting of a limited liability company in which the State has all the shares and is itself the general meeting. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is clear that it has never been intended that such a significant investment decision as the decision to invest in a new hospital should be taken by a regional health company alone. In the light of Höie’s response to the various letters of the Control and Constitutional Committee and the hearing of the case, the Progress Party considers that the Council of State has fully exercised its ownership under the Health Business Act and other relevant laws, and that there is therefore no basis for asking questions about the validity of the Localisation Committee. This means that the location of the hospital in Molde remains standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e889	I would like to thank Mr Thorheim for an in-depth statement, as usual. The representative said that they were fully behind what has happened here, according to the Health Business Act. What's our strongest criticism, that's crime, that's Section 36. The representative didn't go into it very much. What is central here is that at that point there is a thematic exception in the law that says explicitly that the Council of State cannot intervene in relation to the responsibilities of the Board of Directors in terms of recruitment and, if necessary, the removal of the Executive Director. Is it so that the Progress Party does not see the thematic exception? And is it such that what has happened here, in this case, can provide the basis for other health businesses in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e896	It is clear that one sees that exception, but it would be quite unreasonable for the Council of State, when he is told something that does not seem to work completely, should not be able to take this up with his closest director. In this case, it is the director of the regional health undertaking, and if the Council of State then has no opportunity to discuss that kind of question with him, it will be totally wrong. The state councils have not gone here and set him up. In fact, no one has set him aside. As far as I have understood, he has withdrawn himself – of course probably after signals also from the director in this case. But I would repeat that it would be totally unsustainable if the Council of State could not take up that kind of question with its chairman.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e901	There is no disagreement that the Council of State can address all matters with the board of directors. What is common administration is that when the Council of State receives a letter that is so serious, it sends the letter to the board, and the board treats it. Isn't it common administration that that's how it's going to be done in such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e908	No, not necessarily. These are matters of a serious nature at a high level, and then I find it reasonable that, in a case like this, the Council of State is discussing it with the Chairperson. On a number of other questions it may be appropriate for the Council of State to send letters to its Governing Council, preferably after preparation by the Ministry or on its own initiative. But I do not find anything critical in the way the Council of State has dealt with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e915	This is important to clarify, if it is not critical that you do not necessarily need to send the letter to the director – while at the same time saying to the director that you can continue in the job, assuming that you change the managing director, and if you do not, I intend to do so. Will this really be the governance of the Progress Party in the future, when we are talking about a 'not necessarily'? We have learned in this case that it must be the most necessary for it to become a practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e920	In this case it has probably been very necessary, and I repeat: I am not able to see anything very special about the action that has been done here. This will be similar in other groups under the Share Act. That in that kind of question one discusses with one's top director, is not uncommon at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e925	Per Olaf Lundtigen – to the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e928	Completely correct - last line: What has been clarified here is that the thematic exception contained in Section 36 – what the Council of State can and cannot do – is then, through what the representative here says, removed. If this continues, I would ask the representative to change the law so that there is consistency between the legal text and what is practice on the part of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e935	I don't see that there's anything that's been removed here. In this case, the Council of State has not set aside – he has not done the job to be done by the Regional Council. The Council of State has communicated with its board of directors and passed on concerns messages, both those received by the department over a period of time, and those received directly, in the form of letters. And then it's not completely unnatural. I'll keep that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e941	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e944	The matter was raised in the Control and Constitutional Committee in the context of the debate on the issue of ownership management in relation to the location of a new hospital in Romesdal and Nordmøre. The key issue has been how ownership management between the Ministry — which owns the regional health enterprise — and the regional health enterprises have been enshrined in the Health Enterprise Act. Has ownership been exercised in breach of the Health Business Act? In that case, by who and at what level? What is legitimate contact and governance between levels, and to what extent are the rules of transparency practiced? Because of the dispute that the localisation decision created, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to contribute to this being a matter which also included consultation, in order to clarify the matter and to provide answers to the questions raised by this debate. The allegations of crime, irregularity and lack of transparency contributed to the lack of legitimacy of the decision on the choice of plots in many circles. It has, in the view of the Christian People's Party, come to light that clearly underlines a great need for improvement in the dialogue and the clarification of responsibility between Health Mid-Norway and Health Møre and Romesdal. There is a need to clarify governance and accountability and authority between these levels. At the same time, I would like to stress that, from our point of view, no information has been obtained suggesting that the Council of State has acted contrary to the Health Enterprise Act or the Administrative Act in a way that has called into question the validity of the localisation elections. I would like to point out some of the aspects of the matter which raise important questions of principle, and which in the next round should lead to an assessment of whether the law in this area is appropriate in view of the activities it is to govern. One of the key issues raised by the case is what kind of governance signals the State Council can give to the management and the boards of regional health companies outside the formal business meeting, without violating the Health Business Act. The Health Business Act clearly states in the first paragraph of Section 16: «Owner exercises the top authority of undertakings in business meetings.» At the same time, it is clear that such a provision does not deprive the Council of the opportunity to express its views on matters even outside the business meeting. What is important, on the other hand, is that this type of informal control signal is not legally binding on regional health enterprises or as stated in the note of Section 16 of Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001: «If the owner gives guidance signals by virtue of its ownership position outside the business meeting, this is not binding on the management of the entity.» In this particular case, questions have been raised about the signals of the Council of State to the director of the regional health undertaking in August 2014 and to the director of the local health undertaking later the same harvest, where the wordings such as ‘heroe to Molde’ and a nod of a comment that the location near Molde seemed to be the most relevant have been considered binding on the assessments and settings to be made by the regional and local health undertaking. None of the previous or current directors or directors indicated in the hearing that the informal governance signals of the State Council were perceived as depriving the local or regional level of the independent responsibility it had for making its own professional judgements. The hearing therefore appears to have revealed that this type of informal steering signals has not been considered binding on the assessments made by the local and regional undertaking. There may not be room for a type of dialogue between the owner and health-care provider where control signals are provided along the way in processes and matters on the business agenda. However, as the Council of State was also clear in the hearing of the Control Committee, it would clearly be contrary to the Health Business Act if, during the Business Meeting, the Governing Board were to expressly instruct the Board of Directors to take a specific decision and, at the same time, to express its intention not to hold a business meeting. It is important to state that these types of management signals given outside the business meeting do not in any way deprive the boards of the autonomous obligation they have to assess matters and to take decisions on their own basis. In this case, questions have been asked about the communication between the regional and local health services. Has there been any undue pressure from the regional against the local level? There may be little doubt that a pressure from the regional level towards the local level will help to weaken the independent assessment basis of the local health business, thereby also giving less legitimacy to the process against the administration. In this case, it appears that the director of the local health undertaking felt that he was under pressure from the regional level and there is reason to understand that the director may have experienced the pressure in a particular direction. Nevertheless, the main impression through the consultation is that at the same time there was a clear expectation that an independent assessment based on the professional criteria that were considered essential for the Board’s decision should be presented. In the last months of autumn 2014, the pressure to reach an agreement between regional and local levels was felt to be inappropriate and without a basis in the governance principles of health enterprises. It all seemed to be based on a strong desire to push the local level into place. From the local level, it was felt that the rules of the game were changed along the way. The experience of ownership, where the professional investigations conducted at local level were to provide the basis for the decision-making process up to the ownership system, was changed shortly before the decisions were taken. The understanding that the decisions in this case were in the business meeting and not in the local health company was obviously not communicated from the beginning in a way that created cleanliness and predictability in Health More and Romesdal. There is little doubt that in this area there is a need for a clean-up of responsibilities and authority that can contribute more to predictability than has been shown to be the case in this case. This relationship was then also clearly underlined by the Council of State Höie at the hearing of the Control Committee as one of two points in which he made a clear reference to the need for clarification of roles and responsibilities. The case shows that there is a potential for improvement in the dialogue between the regional and local health undertaking, clarification of governance and responsibilities and authority between levels. It also seemed unfortunate, as we in the Christian People's Party see it, that the governing bodies in Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway and the business meeting of the Council of State took place at less than one 24-hour intervals in the various organs. There is no doubt that the decisive business meeting could have been put at an advantage, especially when some serious claims were made at the board meeting in Health Møre and Romesdal, a recognition which was also shared by the Council of State. He gave this, among other things. in writing. - (PT) At the end of the hearing, he stated that he could ask questions in his wisdom to do so quickly, and that the course of progress stressed the decisions and caused undue concern. Another issue that is justified is the involvement of the Council of State in the matter which led to the resignation of the then director of Health Mid-Norway, Trond Michael Andersen. The government's management of this staff case was assessed by Professor Bernt in the audit hearing as a breach of the Health Business Act § 36. The Council of State Höie rejected this conclusion. The case was not the subject of the hearing, and therefore the case was not sufficiently clarified to be able to draw any conclusions if the law was broken or not by the way the Council of State intervened. However, in our view, questions can be asked by the Council of State regarding the matter of Andersen's departure. In this case and on the basis of the evidence available, we understand that doubts can be raised as to whether the handling of the Council of State is fully in line with the practice that should be expected in such a case. However, the hearing showed that there is no basis for claiming that the staff case in question had any connection with the ongoing localisation process. In our view, there is a need to consider whether the law should be amended at this point, so that the roles of the different actors in such processes can be made clear. Changes to the Health Business Act of 14 December 2012 gave the law a new paragraph, Section 26a, on open board meetings. In this respect, it is stated that the main principle shall be open meetings of the Governing Board unless otherwise provided for by the obligation of professional secrecy or, where there is a real and factual need, specified by five points. The issue we are discussing today has created the impression that the practice of this law paragraph has in several cases been perceived as an unreasonable narrowing of the real and factual needs provided by the law in order to close board meetings. This practice is contrary to the principles of the Public Health Act and is perceived as a further element in helping to raise critical questions in the way this matter has been handled in the governing bodies. That the practice of this principle should have taken place in a different way from what should have been the case, was also underlined by the director of Health Mid-Norway during the hearing. State Council Höie himself stated in the hearing that there was a need to go through the practice of the Health Centre-Norway board in this area, and it was right to have a review for regional health companies and their directors, so that a common understanding of how the law should be handled and understood in this area could be created. The principles of procedure under the Health Business Act, the Administrative Act and the Public Health Act in the final phase of this case have not been followed. However, from the Christian People's Party, we are clear that none of the laws listed above have been claimed not to have been followed in such a way that the validity of the localization election has been questioned. This means that the location of the hospital in Molde remains standing. It's an important point, which goes to the heart of this matter. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's thorough and thorough examination of the matter. From our point of view, this case has shown that the Health Business Act, as a management tool, is based on a number of intentions that in matters such as this prove to be demanding to be fulfilled, and from our side we hope that the time will come to reconsider this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e992	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e995	As I said in my introduction, there is a reasonable consensus that the Health Business Act is a flexible law, and that gives the Council a wide scope for action. But at one point there is no room for action, and that is what is described in the Health Business Act § 36 concerning the Executive Director, where it says: ‘The Governing Board shall decide to resign or dismiss the Executive Director.’;» My question to the representative of Gruvan is: Is this a thematic exception, where does the Council of State have to hold its hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1005	There is no doubt that when it comes to the addition and dismissal of directors, this is a task for the board, and I think we also got it clear through the hearing. There's no disagreement about that understanding of that relationship. What we experienced in this case is that since the staff case became no topic at the hearing, we do not think there is any basis for drawing any clear conclusions about the law being broken or not, given the way in which the council intervened here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1010	Is it then the experience of the Christian People's Party in the matter that if the equivalent should arise another time, then the board of directors is to stand in office and the board of directors to stand in the position, so that the matter is decided differently from what has happened in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1015	There is no doubt that when we have a law, it is important that it is fulfilled not only on paper, but also in practice, and this law is very clear at this very point, namely who is responsible for the addition and dismissal of directors. Now the question is a hypothetical case, but my Christian People's Party and my Christian People's Party will certainly be that the law should be followed at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1020	I would like to thank you for your answer, Mr President, for following the law. This means that the directors and executive directors who feel the protection of the law, to put it that way, should feel protected so strongly that if they act in a way different from that requested by the Council of State, they should not have career or economic consequences for those who comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1025	We are clearly of the opinion that the law should also be followed with regard to the matters that the representative Lundtigen draws up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1033	Let me begin by expressing my full understanding of the great public exposure, the frustration and not least the disappointment that the localization of the new hospital in Romesdal and Nordmøre has led to for people from Kristiansund and around. Localisation cases usually create high temperatures, but in this case the temperature has become extra high, partly because a number of allegations have been made about unfair and illegal behaviour by both government councils and health business leaders. There is in itself a serious and sufficient basis for the Committee to decide to make this a matter of its own control. It was a decision left supported from the beginning and all the way. Ownership management in public activities shall be in line with applicable laws and provide a basis for the transparency and allocation of responsibilities. Especially in matters of high public and local involvement, it is particularly important to have sound responsibilities and clear and open communication. The last thing is hard to say is that this case is a star example of, rather maybe the opposite. The main task of the control committee – as is also apparent from the title of the case – is to manage the health and care department’s ownership of a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romesdal: Has the ministry – and therefore the Council of State – done something illegal or critical about the localisation issue related to a new hospital? It's this question that we're going to try to answer first and foremost. On this issue, whether illegality or critique as to location, the Left answers no. In our view, no information was provided during the hearing of the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s owner-management on land selection for a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romesdal suggesting that the Council of State has acted contrary to the Health Enterprise Act or the Administrative Act — insofar as the Public Health Act — on the issue of land selection, as the majority has concluded. Nor has any new information ever been obtained in the case that would indicate that this is the case. However, as I said at the outset, the hearing revealed that it was right that the Enlarged Council's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs set up a case and carried out verification hearings, all the time when claims were made that the law was broken, and that there was a great deal of concern locally about land selection and the way this was done. The hearing led to the disclosure of all relevant questions and possible uncertainties, and it was therefore also in the interest of the Council of State that the hearing was actually conducted. Although we acquit the Department and the Council of State in the ‘principal appeal’, I believe that the hearing revealed that there is a great potential for improvement in the dialogue and the clarification of responsibilities between Health Mid-Norway and Health Møre and Romesdal, and that there is a need to clarify governance and accountability between them. This concerns, in particular, the governing authority of Health Mid-Norway vis-à-vis Health Møre and Romesdal. It was obviously created expectations – right or wrong – that the setting Health More and Romesdal would conclude with would almost be applicable to the site selection for a new hospital. It is not possible to draw any other conclusion after the consultation, and it is supported by what emerged from it, among others. led by the former Managing Director of HMR Astrid Eidsvik that she had a clear understanding of the ownership of the investigation by Healthe Møre and Romsdal, which was to make its decision to the superior body on an independent basis. Instead, Health Møre and Romesdal experienced that Health Mid-Norway took direct control in the closing phase and in reality presented its conclusion before Health Møre and Romsdal were given the opportunity to do the same. This process – and perhaps first and foremost the conclusion that the process revealed – was also the reason for Astrid Eidsvik to withdraw as Managing Director of Health Møre and Romsdal shortly before conclusions and recommendations on land selection were to be reached. This lack of communication or ambiguity in expectations is not the fault of the Council of State, but the Ministry could have been much clearer in its communication, both with the health businesses and especially with the people of Romesdal and Nordmøre, on what the procedure would be, and how the decisions would be taken – and made sure that so too. Let me just underline here that there is nothing to suggest that the Council of State or the Department has in some way exerted pressure on Health More and Romesdal regarding the conclusion and recommendation relating to land selection. On direct questions from Bård Vegar Solhjell on possible views of the Council of State was used as an argument against Astrid Eidsvik in order to get her to land at a different conclusion from Kristiansund/Storbakken, Eidsvik replied: 'No, it was not used as an argument.' On questions from Hans Fredrik Gruvan regarding Eidsvik, was refused, or hindered, to present his own independent professional assessment, or whether this was a feeling that Eidsvik knew strongly about because she felt that the pressure of expectation from Health Mid-Norway undermined her professional integrity, Eidsvik replied: ‘That was the last of them.’ The internal process between Health Moor and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway is undoubtedly due to much of the anxiety this case has created locally. The same can be said about the plans put forward and the decisions made, by culminating in the whole case that there was a corporate meeting in HMR, HMN and finally at the Council of State at less than a 24-hour interval between the different bodies. In particular, the crucial business meeting could benefit from being subject to greater legitimacy to the decision, especially since some serious claims were made at the business meeting in Health More and Romesdal. I believe that this is exactly what I also feel that the Council of State itself recognised in the hearing. On questions from member of the Committee, Mr Vegar Solhjell replied, inter alia: The Council of State may: ‘question the wisdom of making it so fast’. And on questions from the member of the committee Hans Fredrik Gruvan he replied that: ‘The progress planned over a long period of time, in the future, must be said – and I think more people here have been involved – not to have had anything to do with the legality of the decisions, but that it stressed the decisions and created additional concerns’. One of the potentially more serious issues that the audit hearing revealed was that Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt concluded that there had been a breach of the Health Company Act § 36 in connection with the Council's handling of a staff case against the then director of HMR Trond Michael Andersen. However, this was rejected in cash by the Council of State Bent Höie, who answered direct questions: ‘I do not agree with that conclusion.’ It is a serious conclusion that Bernt draws, but at the same time was not the subject of the hearing, rather it was pointed out by the chairperson of the Committee that this was a matter which did not concern the Storting as such. The Chairman of the Committee said, inter alia:\t\t You can change the “It’s a staff case, obviously, in some way, that we don’t have anything with.” The case was thus not sufficiently explained to the effect that there is a basis for making blatant conclusions as to whether the law was broken or not, as some representatives have been involved in – in particular the case-law rapporteur was concerned about this. The hearing also showed that there is no basis for claiming that the staff case in question had any connection with the localisation process and its ownership management. Both former Chairman of Health Mid-Norway Marthe Styve Holte and former Managing Director Trond Michael Andersen replied at the committee's hearing. However, I believe that this is potentially a matter in which the Council of State has not acted entirely in line with the intention of the law, but that it is primarily an interpretation issue. It is supported by widely differing conclusions reached by Professor Bernt and the Council of State. I therefore believe that there is a need to see whether the law should be amended or clarified on this point. I show in this way that the Council of State Höie during the hearing said: ‘I experience that both the Ministry of Health and Health and I have an understanding of how this law is to be interpreted, and we have training of the boards and the companies in it. But then, through this case, there has been a very powerful public discussion about these things, where also heavy professionals like Bernt have spoken out, and there have probably also been some uncertainties about these issues. That's why I come to the seminar we're going to have at the beginning of April to review and summarise the experience of this case in order, if necessary, to address the ambiguity that has arisen around these issues, and to clarify it to those who are going to deal with this rule and the law further." I therefore call on the Council of State today to set out the views and possible conclusions of the seminar organised in April and how the Council of State intends to follow up its own words to the Committee. Much of this has been about whether, and, where appropriate, how, the Council of State and the Ministry can express views on how health businesses should operate, including outside the general meeting or the business meeting. The problem for the Committee is therefore the form, address and content of such informal ownership management without compromising the guidelines laid down in the Health Business Act. Informal ownership management in the form of opinions will in many situations perceive the board as important governance signals, but it has a legal right and a duty to make an independent assessment of the issue in question. Informal ownership management is normally reasonably unproblematic for state enterprises for a commercial purpose. For health enterprises, this becomes more difficult because the purpose of these activities is to achieve other policy objectives and policy balances, such as the availability of services for larger and smaller communities. That's why it gets complicated, and there's a strong feeling about the choices made, especially when it's perceived that decisions are made in enclosed spaces and in unyielding forms. Finally, let me say the following: This is a matter the Left has gone into with a great seriousness. We were an impellor to obtain a verification hearing, and we were the initiator of a number of questions that were sent by the committee before the hearing. As everyone knows, the Left has a towering representative from More and Romesdal with a home address in Kristiansund. I also think this representative is the only one with a home address there. The simplest and least politically burdensome thing for us would have been to hang us on all the criticisms made in this position. We haven't. We've taken our control task seriously. We're in on some criticism that we find justified, and then we're not in on other parts of the criticism because with our best judgement we can't see that that's the basis for the blatant conclusions the majority makes. We cannot see that the hearing has shown that we are able to establish that the principles of procedure under the Health Business Act, the Administrative Act and the Public Health Act have not been followed. There are some board meetings that should certainly have been open, there may be a lack of formal minutes from others, but it is also the most concrete that has been revealed during the hearing. I also note that no one claims that the same laws have not been complied with in such a way that the validity of the localisation elections can be called into question. I asked several representatives about this, so I note that there is no one who believes that this might have any impact on the validity of the localisation elections. This means that the choice of places for hospitals remains. There is no one in the committee who thinks otherwise, but there are many who are trying to pretend that they think otherwise. It's political cowardice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1104	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1107	There is a thematic exception to what the Council of State may go into, in Section 36 of the Health Business Act. As I said at the beginning of my case rapporteur, it is a deliberate exception – the pre-worker and legislator have been fully aware that this should be so in order to have clear responsibilities. Now it appears in the post of the representative Raja that this is a personal matter, and that since it is a personal matter, no conclusions can be drawn against the Health Business Act § 36. Most of it can be referred to as a staff case in the case of the CEO. But if we then say that it is a staff case, is it not a fundamental requirement for opposition under administrative law, which the person who is exposed to it has occasion to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1112	The principle of convention applies to any thorough, public and good practice. But I referred to the chairman of the committee and what he said when this came up during the committee discussion – I quote again: “It’s a staff case, obviously, in some way, that we don’t have anything with.” The Committee therefore did not go into any detail on this either. There was an opportunity to close the hearing in order to address this, if appropriate. That's what we chose not to do. The chairman of the Committee took a decision on behalf of the Committee not to do so. No one disagreed, at least there is nothing I have realized that someone has communicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1122	The result of this case was that the managing director, Andersen, had to resign. It hung in the air if there were other things that were the reason for it. It has been shown that there was nothing to point out to his care of the job formally seen. When one then goes to such radical intervention, it should well be clear from the Left's point of view that he is given the opportunity to make his version before the final decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1127	I do not know to whom his radical intervention by the representative Lundtigen refers, but as I have pointed out in the past, there was a staff case – as the committee leader said – ‘proposed in some way, with which we have nothing’. In addition, Director Andersen was asked if his case had anything to do with the location process and the department's ownership management related to this. He replied that it had nothing to do with this – it had no effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1132	The fact that it's a radical intervention, we should agree. If this becomes a normal intervention in the future, it's clear that it's not going to be radical. But I expect the representative Raja to have the same attitude on this issue as the representative Gruvan of the Christian People's Party: this is not something you do, because the law gives clear rules for who is responsible at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1137	I'm really trying, but I can't quite follow who, what, etc. – So what the question really is. I don't understand what it is that I should possibly answer. He would like to try to clarify it, but I do not understand the point so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1142	I don't have more to say then than that we're enough on different planets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1147	I'm on the ground here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1152	If the representative Raja has to go back to his planet, I'll try to be on it. I thought he held a very good post, with many good points and reflections, but then, at the very end of the sentence, he hung on to a very serious claim that some representatives, or politicians, had pretended to be the locational option – and that it was the ‘fiction’. I have understood quite clearly that everyone – cross-politically – has underlined the opposite, so I would like to hear it, because it is a strong claim, who has done it, and in what way they have done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1159	I had a lot of questions here in the hall instead, to several of the representatives, about it: When some people have thought that when there is a breach of the Public Health Act, the Health Business Act, the Administrative Act, will there be any conclusions regarding the hospital location choice? No one believes anything about it. But locally, different views have been expressed on this, and I have noted that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1165	So the representative is aiming at local politicians and not at any national party or politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1170	No, I have noted that in the local press etc. have been told in advance that this would have serious consequences, etc., that this has been drawn much longer than it has actually been on the basis of – and at least much longer than what has been expressed here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1175	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1178	This has been a complicated matter, which has created great uncertainty and difficulty, with many different actors and perceptions of reality. What has nevertheless emerged clearly in the hearings – in my view – is that central actors in Health More and Romesdal and Health Mid-Noreg were afraid of disagreement in the process, and that work was quite targeted to get the same setting from both sides. This led, in my view, to an unfortunate and unjust process in parts of the process, which caused unrest both in the local population and internally, and to the fact that the decisive outcome had less legitimacy than it could have had. It is unfortunate that the desire for unity overshadows the need for independent, professional assessments. Furthermore, it is an unfortunate culture to have such an explicit objective of unity in the recommendations from different levels of health care services, because it broke the governance we have chosen for health services. It also weakens openness around processes and professional disunity, which can also affect people's confidence. If there is a professional discrepancy between the different levels of responsibility, it should be made public and not obscured. I think – if I sum up what I take out as the essence of the problem in the matter – that it was unwise, first of all, that Health Mid-Noreg so late and so strongly almost took over the lead in the process, after Health Moor and Romsdal had had had a lot of room for play and the rental until then. Secondly, to set up a race with regard to decisions that made it difficult – yes, in reality almost impossible – if there were to be different proposals for decisions from different levels, I think I was also unwise. Finally, I would say that I have also understood that the Council of State later opened up because it was not the wisest, but it was something that was possible to understand in advance. That's probably the point I thought the Council of State should have dealt with better in the final phase of the process. On the other hand, it is by no means illegal to do unwise things – both on the one hand and on the other on the other hand, in order to do so from time to time. It is therefore also important to point out that, based on what we know and have evidence of, there is nothing to suggest that there was an insolence in the process, that the Council of State intervened, or that this has been directed by him. On the other hand, it is a matter of human resources that the Council of State has intervened in an unfortunate way and that may be contrary to health law. So I think we should – as many people have been in the past – be humble enough to say that if we were to go deep into her and leave her ruling, we would also have to have needed better access to the basis for that matter. That would be absolutely necessary in that case. However, I agree with those who say that there seems to be a need to investigate the practice of business laws at this point, in order to ensure that both their system and their system are followed. Localisation debates on hospitals — and especially on local hospitals — are important issues for the population in question. It creates strong involvement in the population and can often lead to local and regional conflicts. Local hospitals are important to people because they're about security. I found it easy to understand that such processes could be demanding. It is also easy to understand that a desire to create full agreement at all levels about a setting where it would initially be disunity and disunity. But the more important it is that one is clean and open in the processes, and that the players are closely followed. If uncertainty arises about the process and legitimacy of the decision, it may weaken the people's confidence and acceptance of the outcome in an already controversial and difficult case. The population must be able to trust that there are professional grounds for moving and merging hospitals. Finally, I would just like to make a final comment on something that I myself, at least, as a relatively new member of the Control and Constitutional Committee – I went in last October – have found interesting: with a week's interval, we had a hearing in February this year in two cases. Now we have treated the other of them. The first was the so-called asylum child sac. I think there are two interesting examples of hearings that can play a very important role in discovering what has happened in a matter. In one case, the hearing showed that the matter was even more serious than many believed in advance, leading to a very strong criticism of the Council of State from a majority in Stortinget. The other case also revealed critical aspects, but she also made it very clear that the Council of State could not in any way be directly linked to it. As a result, this kind of strong criticism was not brought forward by the Council of State. It shows that going heavy into things is important. In some of them, it would lead to a serious discovery; in others, it would be discovered that it did not have an equally serious character.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1199	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1202	I would like to thank you for a very good contribution from the representative of Solhjell. I have noted that the representative Solhjell has also concluded and emphasised that the principles of procedure under the Health Business Act, the Administrative Act and the Public Health Act have not been followed. The natural question will then be when he first finds that the principles of three laws have not been followed, whether or not this will have any consequences. Should there be any consequence as a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1207	If the representative asks if there will be any consistency for the Council of State, the answer is no, I do not think so. On the other hand, we write a little in the setting about the consequences it should have, and I mentioned it so far in my post as well, that there is a need to go through the law and assess whether it works well enough, whether it might be relevant with precision or change. I believe actually the representative Raja said something about the same in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1212	Just to be absolutely sure, because I've asked some similar questions to some of the others as well: although they find violations of three laws on their part, they believe that this still has no significance for the localization issue, and that the localization choice is entirely legally and politically valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1217	As I have said since the first interview I did on this matter, long before the case was opened, it is not up to debate. I don't think anyone would have made it a topic in this debate if the representative Raja hadn't brought it up a couple of times and asked about it. I don't read all local viewers, but I haven't registered any politicians from any party here at Stortinget as in our proceedings in the committee or now, has suggested that it can be converted. I haven't got everything, but at least I can say with a hundred percent certainty that I'm not among those who have suggested it. I mean, on the contrary, it's not the localization, but the process of what we have for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1222	One is the political issue of localisation. The second is that it can also be a legal issue. If a serious breach of the Public Health Act, the Administrative Act, the Health Business Act is found, does the representative Solhjell believe that there will never be any question of the validity of a decision? Here, therefore, these three laws are found to be in breach, but they do not consider it to be relevant to the issue of localization. It is only noted that there are violations of three laws, but it has no significance for the localisation issue, it is fully legally valid at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1227	The legal side of it left me to lawyers to decide. But the political side of this I see is crystal clear from the beginning. The localisation decision is implemented and valid, but we have had a hearing on a control case, on the process towards it, which is currently in the process of being completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1233	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1236	Initially, I would like to say something about the background to this matter. This is about building a new and modern and forward-looking North-Møre and Romesdal hospital – initially an important and significant positive case for the North-West. I am therefore very pleased that a joint committee has been clear that the control case does not deal with the actual choice of the site for a new hospital. This has been made clear in today's debate. It is important that we finally start planning to build a new and modern hospital in the region after several years of investigations, discussions and postponements. So to the matter itself that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has dealt with. In the process prior to the selection of land for new hospitals in Northern Ireland and Romesdal, questions were raised as to whether ownership management outside the business meeting has been carried out in breach of the Health Business Act. In two letters to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and then in an open hearing, I have, to the best of my ability, given my description of what has happened in this process, and the understanding of the law that I have provided for my ownership. I am pleased that this matter has been thoroughly illuminated and examined. It is important for the further process that all stones have been turned around, and that all persons involved have been given their version and experience of the process. With the consultation and the attitude of the Committee, I believe that this has been achieved. I think everyone essentially agrees on what has happened in fact. In this respect, this hearing has been useful. The problem is when to apply this fact to the relevant legal rules, or sub-sumption, as it is called in the legal language. I'm going to spend some time with this. In this case, I have acted in line with the understanding of the law that the Ministry of Health and Health has laid down since the Health Business Act was adopted. This understanding of law has, in my view, been the same for all state councils that have governed hospitals under the Health Business Act. It has not been changed by me since I joined the Council of State, which I believe the hearing of former councils also made clear. I now feel that the various majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in the nomination are putting forward presentations of the Health Business Act other than the one I have presented in letter form and in open consultation, which have been perceived as the law in force. These presentations are based on the input and assessment of the case by one law professor. This description of how dialogue and exchange are to take place under the Business Act, which is given after the process, I find it difficult to see clearly in the preparatory work of the Health Business Act. I am open to discussing how ownership of hospitals should be, how health business law should be understood, or whether there is a need to make legislative changes. This government wants to change today's management system, and the first step in that is the presentation of a national health and hospital plan. Then we will follow up with also inviting Stortinget to further processes after that. But I find it difficult to be criticized for basing on a understanding of the law that neither the Ministry of Health nor the Ministry of Health, nor the former state councils, nor, as far as I know, others have founded in the past. There are several of the comments in the setting that do not directly address my ownership management in the case, but that are more marked by being a description of how the law should have been understood, if necessary, in the future. These comments are sometimes directly contrary to the processing of the law if they are to be understood literally. The notes represent the majority of the Committee, but not the majority of the Stortinget. I am pleased to hear that several of the parties today nuance this presentation of their views on the Health Business Act and how ownership management should be exercised. In this case, I have dealt with the law that regulates my ability to control the hospitals. And, as I have explained earlier, the Health Business Act does not prohibit government councils from making their views known on matters other than business meetings. If the Administrative Board of the regional health undertaking is made aware of the views of the Council of State on a case, it does not mean that the Administrative Board is legally obliged to take decisions in line with this view. The Management Board is itself obliged to assess the case and to take decisions on its own basis. If the Council of State does not agree with the decision taken by the Administrative Board of the regional health undertaking, the Council of State must consider whether a different conclusion is to be reached. In that case, it must be at the business meeting. That's the understanding of the law I've laid down. I believe that this matter turns into two very central questions: First, were any of the governments instructed by me as the Council of State? The answer to that question is clearly no. In the hearing, no one expressed that they had experienced being instructed. Neither have members of the board who did not attend the hearing claimed this, as far as I know. Secondly, did the Boards make an independent assessment of the matter? I believe that the answer to that is obviously yes. Having said that, I have been clear that I should make this decision after the treatment in the board of Health Moor and Romesdal and the board of Health Mid-Norway. As the Council of State, I want, in a transparent and clear way, to take political responsibility for these kinds of decisions, and that this decision was also important to take political action to move forward. I also see that someone questions whether there has been a disagreement about the professional basis of the case. It hasn't been. The professional basis, developed by Health More and Romesdal, has been the basis for decisions both in the board of Health Mid-Norway, in Health More and Romesdal and in the business meeting. I have not seen anyone criticising the professional basis for the decision. In the hearing, I said that there was a need to go through some central issues with the boards, so that we get a common understanding and perception of these things. At the end of April, I attended a board seminar with the boards of regional health companies. We had good discussions and conversations, among others. on ownership management with open board meetings. As a follow-up to this case, I will send out information on how to understand the key provisions of the Health Business Act, and where I will continue and, if necessary, clarify the legal understanding that has been underpinned since the entry into force of the Act in 2002. In addition, I would like to update and revise the Chairman of the Board, which is distributed to all members of the Board – this to try to prevent confusion in difficult matters in the future, among others. on role understanding and ownership management. As regards the departure of the Chairman and CEO of Health Mid-Norway, I would like to point out that everyone who took part in the open hearing stated that this matter had nothing to do with the choice of an empty area for a new hospital in More and Romesdal. I'm glad. My involvement in that matter had nothing to do with the plotting. I would like to make a few comments on the comments made by the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on my involvement in this staff case. The Executive Director concluded a voluntary conclusion agreement with the Management Board of Health Mid-Norway. I have not been involved at any time in the handling or conclusion of this agreement. My involvement has been with the board of directors, in line with the responsibilities assumed by the Health Business Act. The fact that the managing director chooses to enter into a voluntary final agreement with his board of directors does not mean a breach of the Health Company Act § 36. This provision regulates the dismissal and dismissal of the Executive Director. Finally, I would like to repeat what I also said in the introduction: this matter is basically about building a new and modern hospital in the North West. I think the important thing now is to have the attention focused on the work of realising this hospital for the benefit of the patients in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1278	On the question of whether a government council can call a board of directors and ask her to dismiss the director, Höie has sent a letter to the committee where he writes: ‘It is therefore clear that it is purely formal that it is doubtful that it is the Governing Board which, according to the law, both appoints and appoints the Executive Director.’ But then he goes on to write: «I believe, on the other hand, that it is also relatively clear that I, as the owner, can ask the Chairperson for concrete measures that are not up to me to decide at the business meeting.» Is it so to understand that new practice is that the Council of State can call a director at any time and ask for a director to be appointed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1293	First, I would like to refer to the Grövans and Raja's representatives' description of how this matter has been handled by the Committee. Then I want to say that I stand by what I have also said in the letter to the committee, that the understanding that the Ministry of Health and Welfare and I have by law is that it is the board that can both hire and assign a director. It is not a decision that can be moved up to the business meeting, although the two different settings from which this debate is also referred may draw different conclusions. I therefore understand that it may be a discussion on that topic, but the Ministry of Health and Welfare is at the root of – and I am also going to base it, both in the past and in the future – that it is the board that can employ and dismiss a director. There is nothing that can be moved up in the corporate meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1298	What is the main procedure of the Council of States is that what the Council of States has done, it has done before it. So he's in a good tradition. There's probably a lot of truth in that, but that's the first time we've got a control case, so we can go after what's actually happened. It is a fact that there is a thematic exception to what the Council of State can do, in Section 36, where it is said that the Board of Directors decides to resign or dismiss the Executive Director. My question is: is the public aware that former government councils have done something similar in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1305	The Committee could address this issue in depth if, for example, the Committee had: asked in-depth questions to former government councils present at the hearing, but as far as I registered during the hearing, the committee chose not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1310	My question was concrete: Is the current Council of State aware that this has happened in his time or in the past? What this case reveals is an unculture that is such that most of it can happen if it does not become known, and the whole thing in its breadth shows that if it does, it is willing to decorate the truth, it is also offered in view of better framework conditions for future jobs. What's the comment about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1315	There is a presentation that I in no way recognize, and which I believe is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1320	I expect the Council of State has read the setting. In connection with the resignation of Executive Director Astrid Eidsvik, such things were just said by a board member who is employed in Health Mid-Norway. I have not seen that it has been charged by the Council of State or by anyone else, that such statements can come. That's my proof of the claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1326	This case has had many examples of allegations and theories that have not been correct, and putting emphasis on individual statements and opinions I think are unwise in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1331	They're not claims. It's documented. It has been documented in the Committee's configuration, and it has been documented by others before. None of the persons involved have denied what is in the documentation. The councils are familiar with it. Governments do not distance themselves from such a culture. Is it strange that there is a lack of trust in what happens when even one can enter the area specifically covered by the Health Business Act, except for the Council of State, namely Section 36?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1336	If this is my involvement in the matter linked to the former Director of Health Mid-Norway, the representative refers to, it is my clear opinion that it is the board that can both hire and dismiss the director. But as I have expressed several times also in the hearing, it is not a rule that deters the owner from expressing it to the board manager, if one believes that the board of directors and the board of directors do not fulfil what is the main task of the board, namely to ensure good management of the health business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1341	One last line. The matter is seafaring in its importance the dismissal of Director Andersen, where it happened, was that the chairman had the choice between sitting and getting rid of Andersen or going off if he did not get rid of Andersen. And then, fortunately, he had such a high ethical standard that he did not find himself in that message from the Council of State, which led to the public around it – and thank you and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1346	The production that the representative now provides is a manufacturing that I do not know about. I would also like to refer to a number of members of the Committee who have described in speeches from the Chair how the Committee has taken this matter into consideration, and it seems now that the representative Lundteg wishes to re-open the hearing on this matter, and I do not think that is the basis for this in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1351	It was said by the Council of State in his statement that of course it is – and there is no disagreement about it – that health business boards have a legal obligation to make their decisions on an independent basis. The problem in this case is that it is actually not what has happened. It is possible to say it formally, as the Council of State now said, but we know very well that this is not the case in this case – precisely because we know that there have been coordination meetings, that there have been meetings where they themselves say it was an attempt to crush them. We also know that both Health Møre and Romsdal and Health Mid-Norway discussed the matter without the final decision by the long-term director Eidsvik in the case. Then I have two questions that I'm very excited about the answer to. One question is, did the Council of State actively know that these processes were taking place this way? And: Does he think it's in line with the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1358	I believe that it became very clear in the hearing that the two boards felt that they first made an independent decision on this matter, and secondly that there had been no implicit pressure from me as the state council in the matter. Sometimes you talk about Health More and Romesdal as if it is the managing director at any time who in this sort of case is Health More and Romesdal. It is not; it is the Board of Health which is the legal entity in this context and which is to make a decision on its own. And I have not yet seen in the hearing that there has been a basis for claiming that the boards of the two healthcare companies have not made independent decisions on their own basis – and they have not experienced pressure from others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1365	It is remarkable how it is necessary for a Council of State and its administration to try to protect themselves by legal reasoning. It's not necessary here in the staging room. This isn't a courtroom. The point is that we now – through all the documentation – know very well what has happened. One is that there has been a long process in Health Møre and Romesdal, and of course it is there that is responsible for it. I do not say that it is Eidsvik who is responsible for it, but she did not provide her position – under pressure from Health Mid-Norway. That's what she said at the hearing. That's what led to her finding no reason to do it. I ask again: Did the Council of State know about this, and why did he not intervene in the case to maintain the legitimacy of the process, so that he himself had a better basis to move forward with the matter instead of trying to cover up the legal argument here in the main hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1374	I do not support legal reasoning. I will clarify to the representative the questions that the representative asks me. It is also not correct that Eidsvik was pressured not to provide his/her settings. Eidsvik withdrew from his position and therefore did not have the opportunity to present his/her position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1381	If the President permits, I allow myself to say'really speaking'. It is quite right that it was said by Health Mid-Norway's representatives that she was encouraged to deliver her position, but she said that the director – before she had promoted her position – had given him a feeling of disagreement with her and would add such a race, and that she found it useless to do so, after many years of work. This is where the problems of trust arise. I do not understand why the Council of State needs – I repeat – to support legal argument rather than understanding the political realities associated with this. Because that's why we're standing here -- because there's so much anxiety, for example. at this point. It would have been a great opportunity for the Council of State now, in the line change with me, to fix this by saying that maybe this shouldn't have been like that. It's not formally contrary to the law, but it shouldn't be like that. Had he said that, we would have come much further, but it obviously should not be admitted, on behalf of himself or his administration – unfortunately. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1388	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1392	Eidsvik had all the possibilities to present his or her position – his or her position – to the board. Nor is anyone in doubt as to what Eidsvik has meant in this case – even when the board dealt with the matter. The information we had about the process also added that there was no automatic way that Eidsvik would have the same position as the director of Health Mid-Norway. And the information we received – which is also mentioned in the letter that the committee received from me – was that if the director of Health Mid-Norway and the director of Health Moor and Romsdal agreed on the suspension, they would present their position on the same day, at the same place. If they disagreed about the setting, they would do it in different days and in different places. It is and was quite clear to me at the end of the process that Health Mid-Norway also operated out of an alternative where Eidsvik provided a separate position, which was not in accordance with what the director of Health Mid-Norway did. So I think it's proven that the presentation that one of these is trying to give is not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1397	I would like to ask if a relationship that I thought was not so closely drawn up in the Council of State's posts, and which I myself thought was interesting, namely the decision-making process that was chosen last December. It's interesting because it's hardly the last time there's been a controversial decision about investing in two hospitals in Norway, but also because as a politician it's easy to understand that one sometimes wants to make a difficult decision and just tear off the patch, get it done, finish it and take a Christmas vacation. But that has some problems too. One is that if such a decision is to work, health mid-Noreg and the department must have exceptional close and early insight into the whole basis before it is presented and before a decision is taken, and they must actually make a point before the decision is formally taken, with the limits of the public debate it gives. The second is of course that it doesn't make it harder to be alone. Does the Council agree that such problems are linked to such a decision-making procedure as he proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1406	That's what I said at the hearing. It is part of the story that when one decided this progress, it was in close dialogue with both Health Moor and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway. And the background was a strong desire of the two health companies to do it that way, assuming that they themselves had a very positive experience with it when the first step in this controversial decision was taken, under a different government, namely when the decision was taken to investigate a common hospital. It was also a controversial decision. Then one used this rapid progress, and it was perceived as an important reason that one there got a good process. That was the advice I chose to listen to. Had Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway reached different conclusions in their governments, the business meeting had, of course, been postponed to after Christmas. Then one also needed to spend a little longer time. When one chose to hold that progress process, it was because the two boards agreed on the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1416	It is not to avoid any repetitions so far out in the debate, but this matter, which is so complicated, I will nevertheless go through, as I feel for it, and as I have learned it to know through the work of the committee. It has been said by several, and I want to repeat it too, because it is often so that there is a great deal of attention to what is called acute matters in the control committee. This is of course also a very pointed matter, although it does not have the same national attention as many of the other pointed matters. However, as the rapporteur very well said, this has been a hard-working and difficult matter for the control committee. It's already highlighted very clearly from several, and I repeat it. I reject all the claims made in this debate, and otherwise, that members of the control committee have had underlying intentions to address this matter. It is not the case, as some people would like to say — including those with retiring motivation — that the control committee has had a desire to re-elect the site itself. That's not what's been the subject. Of course, the issue of what kind of hospitals to build has not been a matter for the Committee. Therefore, the Committee does not address any point in these two realities. As the committee's chairman, I would like to stress that, in all our work – and that has been extensive in this matter – we have kept strict control of whether the Council of State and his administration have adhered to the laws that apply here. However, the political and administrative history of this case constitutes a back ground for dealing with the case and lays down some premises that influence the proceedings. We have received, both as committees and as individual members, an unusually large number of contacts from individuals, groupings, executives and several trade unions. In sum, these enquiries show that there has been, and still is, a great deal of disagreement about what is the truth of the matter. The concrete causal context is also the disagreement, and the emotional commitment is, as we know, very great. I say it this way: the Committee has only modestly emphasized this. But the information that has emerged and that is relevant to the specific treatment, we have of course included it in our assessments. Although it has been demanding, with inquiries and exceptionally strong pressure on the committee, I nevertheless thank everyone for their commitment. No proposal for a decision shall be made in the case. Nevertheless, I would already like to consider and assume that the Council of State Höie, who is a sensitive Council of State, both on behalf of itself, on behalf of the Ministry, on behalf of the Directorate and not least on behalf of the Boards of Health Enterprises, is carefully involved in the vote and is the basis of his further work, also the criticism raised in the vote. With one clear exception, which has already been mentioned quite clearly in this debate, and which I am going to come back to, the State Council has not broken the law on the management of health companies. But he has, through his actions and his involvement, contributed to creating unrest around the decision on the location in such a way that unfortunately it can be found that the decision has little confidence in More and Romesdal, and thus weakened legitimacy. It's regrettable, and should get the Council of State to think through its own course of action. We have heard the views of the Council of State on this matter just now, and I also think now, as in my reply with him, that he should act with a little more humility in view of the criticism raised against the course of action. The majority of the Committee, which criticises Höie, is therefore not of the opinion that the decision to place the hospital is illegal and therefore invalid. However, in my view, there is still reason to say that with reference to the overall position and what is in this debate, the Council of State should make an independent assessment of whether the decision has the legitimacy enough to ensure that the further planning and construction of a new hospital can be carried out in a good way. The right of state councils to decide through business meetings is definitely not disputed by anyone, nor by me. That's not the heart of the matter. What is the essence of the matter? In short form, but at least precisely, in my opinion, this is the case: after considerable unrest and several delays, an understanding was established that an investigation was to be set up that would, on a professional and objective basis, provide qualified advice on the type of hospital to be built and where it was to be built. Health Møre and Romsdal, under the direction of Director Astrid Eidsvik, were given a mandate and mandate to carry out the investigation. As the Committee has understood, no one disputes this. Health Møre and Romesdal went into the task conscientiously. Health Mid-Norway, which was a formal contracting entity, remained in the background. It was agreed that Health Møre and Romsdal would present their position on 17 December, so Health Midth would take its decision on 18 December, and the council would take a final decision at the corporate meeting on 19 December. Of course, such a timetable raises legitimate suspicions that the various bodies do not act in accordance with the law's intention and letter. How is it possible that Health Mid can make an independent decision less than 24 hours after Health Møre and Romsdal have said their own, and – even more serious – when the director of Health Middet communicates his opinion before he has received the position from Health Møre and Romesdal? I don't understand that it's some kind of independence. I now hear what the council says, also in line change with me, but I see that as a construction. This is one of my charges against the Council of State. He should actively intervene in such a serious situation and said that there is not at all; we cannot do it this way now, because the temperature is too high, the disagreement is too big. But the pressure to get a decision was probably so great that he could not keep it, and thus the decision loses some of his legitimacy. That's the challenge and the problem in this case, and I see for my part that it can't be in line with what the law's intention is to talk about independent bodies that are going to make decisions on an independent basis. I'm sorry that no one in his department reacted either. That's what they should see and understand, where they're sitting, and that's why I'm also saying it, so they hear it directly: they should understand that this would cause problems. This includes, inter alia: the fact that this has become a major issue in Stortinget, and that should at least be respected. Because it's not like we're going into this because we actively want to. We do this because we have to, because we feel that this is against the law. That's what we do in Stortinget. Because the ministry obviously has full knowledge of how this looks at More, the Council of State seems quite fine to take this matter directly, in just 24 hours, with one night between. There's a small confession here at Höie, who has said that in retrospect you might see that you shouldn't have done it. Okay, then we can agree on it, if it's in it, the Council of State -- through the President -- that you think that maybe we should do this differently. That would be good in case. Then I would like to say that this is not a breach of the legal sense of the law – the committee does not say that this is a breach of the legal sense of the law. But it's not in line with the intention of the law, and that's what I'm highlighting here. In this context, it is absolutely necessary and proper to point to two aspects that complicate the image and underline what I have said so far. First of all, what others have been up to, and I'm going to try to be brief, because it has shaped the debate: So it's the director, Andersen, who ends up in Health Mid-Norway. He does so, as explained to the Committee, on the initiative of an overall trade union movement in the relevant institutions. The Committee has rightly failed to address the root cause of Andersen’s resignation. It does not belong to the Committee. The Council of State has also referred to this in the debate, and I agree with the Council of State on that point. We could do that if we had gone into the closed hearing, but I see that as a derailment of the matter itself, especially because both Andersen himself and the director Styve Holte said this was a matter that did not concern the matter that the committee had to deal with. Then there was no reason to proceed with this. But for my part, I would say that at this point I believe it is clear that the Council of State broke the law. Also here I would say that it would have been okay for this debate if the Council of State had said, well, here I went too far. But I notice – and that was not said in the line change, so I now say it – that the Council of State actually said that this should not be a practice for the future, in a line exchange with the representative Gunvor Eldegard. Then he said something other than what the representative Tetzschner said earlier in the debate, and that is good. Then we're going to hope that we don't get any more examples of this, because if we get more examples of this, it's going to be up to Stortingen to change the law at this point. Then we'll need it to maybe clean up the ambiguities. There I believe that the Council of State has made a confession, and it is nice that we should not have it like that for the future. So we don't have to go into it anymore and now. And so it is, which, to a large extent – and I look down on the press bench, because there are many from the Moor press here, naturally – attached to Astrid Eidsvik's departure. Astrid Eidsvik had worked for several years on the hospital's concept and location. Following the resignation of Chairman Styve Holte and Director Andersen, there was a documented climate change between Health Mid and Health Moor and Romsdal. That's when it happened. No one's protesting it either. Then there was a climate change. In such an understanding, Styve Holtes and Andersen's departure had a clear, indirect effect on the processes. Health Middle now intervened in various ways in the process for which Health More and Romesdal had largely been responsible – not formally, because there was no crime here either, but clearly indirectly. It's been documented by the hearing. Head of Health Centre Daniel Haga announced on 17 November that he had made his decision for the Holy See to the Director of Health Møre and Romsdal, Astrid Eidsvik. It was not illegal, either, but an indirect intervention in what is called an independent process. And I would call it very remarkable and critical that a director of a superior body gives his opinion before the decision of the subordinate body is made. I mean that – at least when you constantly claim that here it is clear that everyone has the duty and the right to act independently and to make their own decisions. You have to decide what you think about it. You can't use both arguments. Either they have an independent right, or it is that in the correspondence and conversations they have, situations do not arise where this right is undermined – not legally, but really. Here, everyone who defends this course of action has to decide what arguments you want to choose. You can't pick both. I see that the Council of State shakes slowly on his head, and he has every opportunity to comment on this afterwards. That would be good in case, so we can get some clarity in these conditions. Then it appears in the position that informal board meetings and coordination meetings were held, which we have talked about, between Health Mid and Health Møre and Romesdal. Minutes of these meetings were not recorded. The intention was to reach agreement. The governors were supposed to crack together, and that's not my expression, it's an expression from those who attended these meetings. In the opinion of the majority of the Committee, this is clearly contrary to the provisions of the law on independent procedure. I also believe that this is a clear criticism. I would say that I think it is remarkable at this point that the Council of State could not say that this is not the way he wants it. Here, too, you can't choose that method and that method, and say that these governments are completely free from each other, because that's not how it works in a human society, after these kinds of seminars and meetings. Health Mids representatives claimed in the hearing that they had not broken the law, by saying it all the time and stressing that Director Eidsvik was asked and urged to promote his position on the board of Health Moors and Romsdal. That's right, they said it, and Eidsvik didn't argue that they had said it, so it's an objective truth, as I now say it. But in the hearing Eidsvik also said clearly that after the development, which had shown that Health Midth had already taken her position before she had promoted her perception and attitude to the board, and before the board had dealt with the matter in Health Midth and had made her decision, she perceived it as useless – and that is the quote – to promote her position. It's probably not formally contrary to the law, but it can't be good. It can't be good that it's this way, and it's this that creates the trouble on the North Sea and in the Valley of Rome. It is these things that create the lack of trust, because – all of them – you relied on this process to be professional and objective, and that everything should be right here. This is what is at the heart of the matter. Not all formalism is at the heart of the matter. This is the difficulty, and that's why there's one thing here in Stortinget. Unlike what is actually indicated in this debate, I note that neither the majority of the committee nor I say that the Council of State has broken the law. We've never said that the state council has broken the law, because the law gives him the sovereign right to decide through corporate meetings. But both the majority of the committee and I believe that the way Health Middle has behaved is contrary to the law – not within. One might say to me any legal arguments, but I'm not going to listen to them, because I'm a politician, and I know how the laws are going to be understood in the population, exactly. In this context, Health is the Governing Body of the Council of State and is therefore also the responsibility of the Council of State. We know – and it is documented – that on different occasions the Council of State made its views on land selection known. He supported the choice of Health. Of course, to what extent it has actually mattered to the decision in Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Middle, is unclear. An example of this ambiguity is that after a brief meeting with the Council of State, the director of Health More and Romesdal wrote an e-mail to Director Eidsvik expressing clearly the views of the Council of State that the Health was his choice, and that it was important that a consensus was established. Of course, it was a powerful signal when it came as it came. When this e-mail became known, the same director tried to interpret it away in the public room. It was certain that he had misunderstood. Yes, it is possible that he had misunderstood the signal of the Council of State in the short conversation. That's possible. And I mean it, I'm not saying this ironically. I say that it is simply possible. Nevertheless, this is a very busy person, who knows what he does when he sends such an e-mail – in this case to Eidsvik, who had been with the investigation for many years. Her reaction to it was also very clear, and we were hoping and thinking that the intention was not to trigger that she did not deliver her position, and withdrew. We're going to hope and believe that's true. No one has said that, but that's part of the questions that are naturally raised in this debate, naturally enough, if we're able to get into the whole climate that this case has created for those who were involved in the matter. Another example, and another aspect of the matter, is that the Council of State in conversation with the director of Health Centre, Styve Holte, announced its view that the choice of Health would be the right choice. In this context, there is reason to draw attention to the behaviour of the Council of State. Höie has long claimed that his contact with and content of the conversations he has had with the director and/or other relevant persons was confidential. State Council Höie claimed it for a long time. He also referred to confidentiality here in Stortinget and refused to answer specific questions from representatives about the contact and content of the conversations. Only when the Control and Constitutional Committee asked, was a response given. I do not dispute the right of the Council of State to contact the board of directors and the board of health companies. Once again, I do not dispute the right of the Council of State to contact the board of directors and the boards of health companies. But there must be an open and accessible information, so that there is no information that anyone has, and others don't have. The action of the Council of State here creates confusion about the communication between the Council of State and the Ministry on the one hand and the governing bodies on the other. So to what extent this communication has been governing the decision is an open question. The majority of the Committee decides that three laws have been broken. There has already been a significant mention, so I don't go into it any further. Nevertheless, it is not the case that proposals for decisions containing criticism are presented. But I repeat what I have already said: the Council of State Höie and the Government should consider whether the situation created around this matter gives the decision on the choice of plots sufficient legitimacy, in particular in view of the further planning and implementation of the construction of the new hospital in More and Romesdal. There has been a lot of discussion in this debate, and before this debate, on precisely the issues relating to the law and the ability of the Council of State to communicate with the underlying agencies. I refer you here to Mr. Gunvor Eldegard's statement on our understanding of the authority and space of action of the Council of State under the law. Finally, I would like to say that I have seen some voices in the public space – not here in the Stortinget, but in the public space – that have said yes, now this election is made, and it stands firm, but if there is another government, then there will be a change in that matter. If so, I will be very clear: this is not how it works in Norway – and thank you for it. It doesn't work on such a basis. In the case of – and now I say ‘in case’ – another choice of land has to escape from the economy and other assumptions in the planning process. We don't make changes to this on a partisan basis in Norway, and I think we'll all be happy for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1475	This case is about the department's ownership management related to a new hospital in More and Romesdal. It can be a little easy to forget when you read parts of the setting, because if you read it, you can get the impression that the matter is about evaluating the health business model as such, or about the human resources issues in Health More and Romesdal, or about the governance of health companies' interpretation of the Public Health Act. I must also say that this is a matter for the Control Committee which could well be concluded after the correspondence between the Committee and the Council of State. The central general question in this case is whether the decision to locate a new hospital at Molde is a valid decision. In order to assess this, the Committee needed answers to the question of whether Section 16 of the Health Business Act was broken, in particular the part that says that ‘the owner cannot exercise ownership in undertakings other than the Business Meeting’. «If the owner gives guidance signals by virtue of its ownership position outside the business meeting, this is not binding on the management of the entity.» This means, of course, that the owner has the opportunity to signal in one direction or another of the entity, but it is only in the corporate meeting that this is binding on the board. This is information that was available before the hearing. Then we also know that the Council of State has not given explicit guidance signals in the matter, but in a conversation with the director of Health Mid-Norway said that he was healing against Molde. It was after the Chairman had explicitly asked to know the preliminary assessments of the Council of State in the matter. Nor did anyone dispute this version, either in contact with the Committee or with the public, nor did the hearing change that image. So, of course, in some cases, or even in quite a few, it may be appropriate to hold hearings, even if it should subsequently prove that the hearing does not provide any new information. For example, it will. be the case in the cases where the Committee is uncertain as to whether the information in its possession is correct or sufficient. However, I find it difficult to see that the Committee was lacking in its information following the correspondence with the Council of State. It was on the veracity of the wording of both the paragraph text and the comments of the Health Business Act, and it was on the very thing that the Council of State had actually done. This is something I would normally not spend a lot of time on from this platform, because of course I respect that you can have different views on things in the committee, that you can evaluate things differently, and that someone may need more information before you conclude. When I still take it up, it's because the noise and noise locally in More and Romesdal have been used as independent justification in the comments on the setting of some parties. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should not be a committee that double-checks all controversial matters or matters that are defined as particularly important. We're going to check that state councils are doing what Stortinget has asked them to do. I have to comment that a minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Senterpartiet and SV, believe that Section 36 of the Health Company Act has been broken by the Council of State in connection with the management of Andersen's departure. I’m not going to draw the long reasoning on that, but I find it especially that the minority concludes so blatantly in a case that has not been tried before the courts – it also has no similar cases – where there are no clear considerations from the legal environment in Norway, and across what I understand has been the understanding of the law from former health ministers. I would also say that such blatant conclusions are on the brink of what a legislative power, unlike a doomsday power, is going to do in a system based on the principle of power distribution. I will conclude by saying that it is clear that the government of the Department and the Council of State in connection with the new hospital in More and Romesdal has been in line with the law, and there is also a large majority in this Chamber going to join later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1498	I am asking for a line in view of the last time that the representative Skuttle said that the conclusion I reached regarding Section 36 was incorrect. At the same time, the representative did not have special respect for the thoroughness that the Committee has tried to exercise in relation to the processing and the whole intention of the law. That's exactly why it was necessary to go to work so thoroughly; you had to bring that whole together to see if it had been committed. The fact that this case has not been tried before the court came out in my introduction, but it must be counter-arguments in order to claim that there is no basis for the understanding of the law, when there is such an explicit clause in the law as here. Where are the counter-arguments to the conclusion of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1505	The legal text states that it is the responsibility of the Management Board to appoint the Executive Director. But then, of course, it's quite natural for an owner of such a large enterprise to have an opinion about what management is at all times. Then I'm not saying that the conclusion is necessarily crazy, I'm just saying that it's weird that you're so blatant in a case that you haven't tried before the courts, and you don't have a clear advice from a whole legal profession – and the fact that this assembly is a legislative and advocating assembly, we're not a judging assembly. Then I believe that you should be careful to draw as good a conclusion as the minority has drawn in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1512	Our reason for this is: we've been through the law-makers, and we've seen what the ministry has done, what we've written about how the law is to be understood. We have learned that we have not dealt with a similar matter. The law paragraph is clearly clear – it is clearly clear. It is only in that paragraph that there is such a clear and unambiguous attitude to what the Council of State is going to do. There are no other points where there is a clear paragraph. Then we also experience in this clear paragraph that the Council of State intervenes in such a way that both the Chairman and the Executive Director withdraw. If this too is under the law, and there is doubt about it, this debate has created greater uncertainty, greater doubt and greater difficulties for the further practice of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1519	To the extent that there were any questions from the representative Lundtägen in that line, it must be that I still stand by my claim that it is a too bastant conclusion. I think that is definitely because, as I said in my previous reply to the representative, Lundtigen, there is no clear legal environment that supports the opinions of this minority. Both the Council of State and the Ministry have a different interpretation of this. Former health ministers have also had a different interpretation of this, as far as I understand. So it's like -- that I have to repeat -- that this is not a judging power. The size is an admissive and legislative power, and to draw as bastful conclusions as this minority does, I think is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1527	I'll be brief. What the representative is now saying is that former state councils have practiced this in the same way. I ask that it be documented, so that we can be clear about what previous state councils are involved, and in what cases similar has happened regarding Section 36.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1534	Then the representative misinterpreted me. I said that it was my understanding that the department has also had this understanding of the law under previous political leadership, namely that it is most legitimate that the owner of the healthcare companies has an opinion on the operational management of regional health companies and normal health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1539	I asked for a line because the representative Skuttle said this room is not a courtroom. He's right about that, but it's Norway's big deal. And of course, Norway’s big business has an opportunity to have an opinion on the laws it has given. And in this case, there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that has its opinion on the understanding of Section 36 of the Health Business Act. That doesn't mean it's a court order, which has no legal consequences, but that's our understanding of it. And that's as legitimate as thinking the opposite, as the representative Skutle and others here in the Chamber make themselves speakers for. They say that the Council of State has not broken the law. They don't have a greater right to mean it than we have to say the exact opposite. That's how Stortinget works, and this isn't a court – this is Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1544	I'm registering the line of Mr. Kolberg. I want to repeat that of course I respect the fact that any representative can write down the comments they themselves want, but I also reserve the right to point out that I think it is not appropriate, and I think you should have shown greater caution in that particular question. The note that the minority from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party are behind is very bastant. It says the state council has broken the law. That is a conclusion that, first of all, I do not think that is the basis for it. And I believe that the red-green parties have also not been able to show which premises they are based on. So this is not a matter decided in the court, it is not similar, nor is it clear advice from the legal environment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1551	My view of being a magnificent representative and working on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is not that we need to refer to what the courts have to believe to be involved in interpreting a law and to have an opinion on what has happened in the constitutional context. That's where our paths divide. Moreover, it is no less blatant to believe that the law has not been broken than that it has been broken. So I'm taking away from the characteristic that the representative Skutle here gives of that our position is so much more bastant than the exact opposite. And now we are talking about the purely interpretational aspect of the case – not the facts of the case. For both the representative Skutle and the representative Tetzschner, very much of his argument in this case is based on legal understanding, and then I found reason to take this line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1556	I do not base my conclusion on legal understanding. I base my conclusion on the principle of the distribution of power, that there is a legislative, a executive and a judicial power. In our remarks, we conclude that we cannot say that there is a basis for breaking the law. There is a big difference between that and writing explicitly — in plain text — that the Council of State has broken the law. There's a big difference. Then I say that the representative Kolberg and his party of course have every right to write what they want in their comments – of course – but I also reserve the right to problematize the bastant conclusion that is in that comment, and say that in my opinion it violates the principle of power distribution. When there are so clear and bastful conclusions, I think it's a little lucky, and I think you should choose another way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1563	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1566	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided to carry out hearings on ownership of a new joint hospital in North Moravia and Romesdal because the response given by the Council of State to the Stortinge did not adequately inform the matter. Part of the background to the fact that the Stortinget in this committee chose to ask the Council of State questions about ownership was the great unrest among people, among professionals and among the populace in More and Romesdal in hospital cases. The hearing in Stortinget revealed that the council broke health insurance law § 36 when he gave instructions to the board leader Marthe Styve Holte in Health Mid-Noreg that she would dismiss the managing director. Paragraph 36 says that it is ruled as a sole and assigned daily leader. Regardless of the fact that this is a legislative and not a judgmental assembly, the law paragraph is clear, and it is up to the Stortinget to be able to point this out. This is not a criminal offence either, it would be quite different – as a comment on the exchange of lines recently. In addition, the hearing and the current setting are fully reflected in the way health law works in practice. When there was a professional disagreement between the different levels of responsibility, this was not revealed in the public sphere, but was also attempted. It appears that it was more important to press forward an agreement on the empty choice than to develop the professional arguments. It was more important to arrive at a decision quickly than to secure a defence process. In this way, the decision is held out of democratic control and loses legitimacy in the people. I myself am a North Mortification and try to be aware that there should not be too much color in this particular case. I've been in close contact with people both on the North Sea and in the Valley of Rome, in Kristiansund and in Molde, and I know how difficult this case is for people in both camps. At the bottom, there is a fear of loss — the loss of jobs, professionals and development, but the greatest loss of security. When our basic needs, which are just the need to be safe, are at stake, it is particularly important that there are good, democratic and open processes at stake in the decisions taken. It is very serious when we are not able to make important decisions with high economic and social costs – such as hospital construction and structure – in such a way that people can be sure that it is democratically fair and proper. And it's serious when the party on Stortinget doesn't understand or wants to take over that we can't continue to run such an important welfare policy field as the hospital policy in this way. In the conclusion of the setting, the government party writes: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party consider that the greatest threat to democratic decision-making processes is if the Council of State cannot effectively manage its own hospitals.’ Further type: ‘The weakening of the governance of the Council of State is to weaken the possibilities for the health policy of the Grand Duchy to be put into practice.’ The case of ownership linking to a new hospital in North Moravia and Romesdal has never been a matter of weakening the governance of the Council of State, but a matter of deciding on an important public issue that our hospitals must face up to in a tidy and democratic way. In addition, there should be a great deal of goodwill to claim that the Storting is sufficiently involved in the type of hospital planning that we are talking about here, that an expression such as the ‘will of the great thing’ is covering the practice. The truth is that the Storting is too little involved in major decisions about hospitals, and that the Storting is less informed, in the same way as the population else, of the more processes that go ‘in confidence’ between state councils and businesses. How problematic it is to doubt the right of a Council of State to rule in the hidden, or ‘in confidentiality’, which was the expression of the Council of State Höie in his communication with the Stortinget, the Council of State showed in his hearing that – and I refer to the setting on page 19 – for example. the closure of a maternity ward was so controversial that a corporation, rather than taking that noise and perhaps later being tried out at a company meeting, had to be able to investigate what was the opinion of the Council of State before such a decision was taken. Does this mean, then, that we can assume that the sanctuary of the Kristiansund Children's Department was a decision cleared in advance by the Department? Or was this a decision made by the enterprise and was the responsibility of the enterprise, as Höie in a different way left an impression of then the storm at worst? Who shall be responsible for such decisions when it is hidden from the public how a conclusion was reached? It's the state that owns hospitals, and it's department and stuff that's top in the field of hospital policy. However, the case we are dealing with today has fully demonstrated that the health care model and health care law are a ubiquitous design to cover up and to destroy what is responsible. This leads people to feel powerless over decisions in hospital policy. It's not without reason that it's when it's about hospitals, we see most torches. In the field of hospital policy, the kind of democratic forums that they should actually influence, which they should direct their minds towards, are in vain for people. Is it against the local enterprise, against the Stortinget or against the Council of State? Who is responsible, and who is responsible? Those who like to be pointed out as responsible, the corporate governance, are not options. I Prop. 120 L for 2011-2012 described it this way – in the setting on page 10: ‘The health business model as regulated by the Health Business Act is a very flexible model. The State may choose to exercise ownership of the entities closely so that the entity becomes almost an underlying management body, or the State may act as a highly withdrawn owner and hold business meetings only when required by law.» And on the other hand, ‘How close the Ministry will at all times manage regional health businesses that own a political issue’. In 2012, the majority made some revisions that the government party described at the time as follows: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that, after all the debate that has taken place in recent years, it is good that the Health Business Act is now being revised and that more people will come.’ And on, a little later: ‘These members consider a clearer ownership role to be an advantage, but there will still be uncertainties in the relationship between political management and the corporate governance in question. Political responsibility will still not be as clearly placed and parliamentaryly anchored as these Members want.' The case of owner management linked to a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal have shown that the Right and Advance Party were right in their analysis in 2012. The debate has continued, and there is still considerable uncertainty in the relationship between political leadership and the current corporate governance. Political responsibility is not clearly placed, and the decisions are not clearly laid down by parliament. In other words, there is no reason why the government party should run from its previous conclusion, as they do now. The centre party of health law does not function as a good law for an open, democratic hospital management with legitimacy in the population. We're talking about the experience with North Moravia and Romesdal now joining a series of hospital processes where people feel disconnected from being able to influence. The centre party therefore points out that the health business model has to be discontinued and that hospital management has to be subject to public authority control again. I will finish by drawing up the thorough job that the case-speaker, Lundtegen, has done in this matter. In his speech, he got to the point why it has been important to carry out hearings and proceedings in the Control and Constitutional Committee, and I support the conclusions of the representative of Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1631	The issue we are dealing with today has been discussed around most of the breakfast tables on North Moravia and in the valley of Rome. The hospital case has dominated the news image locally and has also been of interest to the national press. Future hospital construction and hospital services have brought the conflict between the funds. This is a matter in which a political decision is made to build a common hospital for the North-Møre and Romesdal. Since the 1980s, Molde has shown a need for a new building, and countless attempts to build a new one have been changed and stopped along the way. Where Molde has believed that there is a need to build a new hospital, the fear in Kristiansund has been that they would lose more of their offers to the new hospital in Molde. A poor hospital economy has also shaped the scope for new construction and modernisation, and the fear of being offered to patients and employees in the future has been a lie-back, both politically and administratively. In 2010 it was decided to put the planning of the new hospital in Molde on the shelf, after spending 170 million kroner. kr on this project. There was then a heated debate in which the North Mortars wanted to build a common hospital in front of a new one in Molde and thus keep a model with two hospitals. The Orkidé, which is the North-Møre College of Rapporteurs, justified its desire to go in for one hospital in order to strengthen the professional health provision of the inhabitants of North-Møre and Romesdal, and this would create stability and predictability for a long time to come. It would strengthen the recruitment of professionals, further develop specialities and thus increase the quality of specialist services for the inhabitants. This message was deeply ingrained to accept in Romesdal, which for a long time has struggled to build a new replacement building for a very worn-out hospital. But after a while, more and more people wanted to go into this common hospital, and more and more saw the benefits of it. The lot by lot then went into a common hospital, and the Workers' Party was the party that was first out with it. But you can probably discuss how strategically tricked it has been with the local dispute, both in the short and long term, because along the way Ålesund has been awarded cancer ward and children's ward. Molde lost AMK, emergency services for mentally ill children and the ear-nose-neck offer on weekends. Kristiansund has lost the Children's Department's offer on weekends. But even if one common hospital was accepted, the politicians saw that the land selection should actually be decided by the health company with a professional justification, with the Minister of Health as the last and decisive decision-making body. Astrid Eidsvik was the head of the health company and was to lead this process, and numerous reports were made that would help to arrive at the best professional decision. Oslo Economics made a report on the societal impact in 2012. Norconsult produced three reports, one on the suitability and regional impact of plots and one on helicopter – both the reports were made in 2014 – and one on medical/professional assessments in 2012. Aplan Viak made five different availability analyses, so there are many reports that have been treated in the health company. The Oslo Economics report concluded that their concern was not to identify the best policy solution, but to assess which option was most appropriate and sustainable over time, based on a rational analysis of identifiable societal impacts. That option was, in their opinion, an emergency hospital near Molde, with outpatient clinic in Kristiansund. Norconsult in regional KU said that large specialised jobs need a certain size of recruitment and labour market. That's 30 pst. more in the Molde region today than in the Kristiansund region. Molde is a strong educational city, including: with the Molde College as a close partner, and it is 40 pst. more jobs in the Molde region. Norconsult in municipal KU, which referred to the suitability of plots, produced a result where the Storbakken was best placed on one of six factors. On one factor came the Great Hill and the Health equal, and the Health came out best on four out of six factors. When it came to the helicopter assessment, Norconsult said in his report that from the wind and the terrain around each plot were Opdøl, Roaldset and Mork the least problematic locations, but the second best location was on Storbakken. The Norconsult report on the medical evaluation in 2012 concluded that the recommended alternatives close to Molde and the alternative between them are the best alternatives to address the medical issues assessed. These options were considered equivalent in terms of the risk of retaining and recruiting skills, as well as the ability to provide good emergency preparedness. I would like to make it clear that this is what has emerged in the technical reports, it is not a political assessment of me or others. However, it was from these reports that the health company’s manager should present his position to the board of directors. What has emerged in the case of the fact that the various directors of the health company began to co-operate with the decisions is critical. They all worked under strong pressure, and you can understand from human aspects that they had a desire to come up with a common attitude, but there's the wrong way to do your job of doing it that way and in secret spaces. Romsdal’s objection to the process was that they were not particularly excited that, in emphasising the suitability of land alternatives, they experienced that there were at least possible differences between the land options. This was also Holte Consulting critical in their external KSK, where they questioned the fact that the differences between the alternatives in the investigation and in the Idea phase report had not been made clear. They felt that the hearings were not answered, and that the technical criteria were not taken into account. The fact that the size of the professional environments with the 360 employees of Moldes and Kristiansund’s 755 employees — in 2013 — was to be mitigated was not popular, nor was the interim phase considered to be debatable. But from North Moravia there has been a critical view of the departure of the director of Health Mid-Norway, the departure of Astrid Eidsvik and the pressure she had experienced in the final phase. Meetings in the closed rooms and how this could happen were also very critical from the North American side. Nordmøre has also made it clear that this had to be lifted to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in order to establish the truth and any criminal offences involved in the process. The state council's haste was perceived as an unnecessary tight plan, especially after Astrid Eidsvik suddenly thanked for himself and the board of Health Møre and Romsdal were not given a position by the Executive Director. For Nordmøren, trust in the process was lost and that this decision was made on a legal basis. The premature interviewer was experienced as an overstepping and unacceptable. Politically, we have witnessed a downturn, not an upsurge, in this matter locally and regionally, in terms of the desire for closer cooperation between the North Moravia and Romesdal and a joint hospital offer. Everyone knew that there was going to be a winner and a loser in this fight to get the Santa choice awarded. But everyone knew that a common hospital had to be built only in one place. Although Astrid Eidsvik thanked him in the final question, all the reports that were ordered were on the table – available to all decision-makers. However, there will be a bismach in the mouth when the management of this by the health company and the health minister does not have confidence among all those affected by the case. There is a demanding situation in itself. It is therefore good that the Control and Constitutional Committee has now dealt with the matter as thoroughly as it has. The rapporteur has written a separate dissertation on the matter and has done an incredibly thorough job, and the committee has done a lot of work on this matter. That's very good. Such a case is closed in this Chamber today, it can be concluded that the land selection has been legally adopted. Hospitals are as well-known for patients – we have often easily forgotten about this matter, because we are being drawn up from both sides. But the user selection in Health More and Romesdal now says that quality over location is most important to them, with the desire for further planning to speed up a forward-looking offer for the benefit of patients. We, who are from More and Romesdal, know well that this case – and the case until it is put in the ground – is long, but we have expectations that those who are going to carry out the tasks of the health company will follow the laws and regulations. But we also have great expectations that the Council of State will take its responsibility and ensure that the processes are properly implemented, and not least work hard to get people's confidence in the decisions that are being made. The health company in More and Romesdal is in a red-digit economic situation, and with a great need for increased optimism, it is tempting to ask the Council of State how the race is to be continued. Do we have fewer and fewer services waiting for the North Moravia and Romesdal, or are we going to retain the functions we decided to be part of a common hospital? Everyone in this room knows that there are new projects in line – in Agder, Buskerud, Helgeland, Telemark, Hedmark and Oppland. What has the health business and health councils learned from this round? Of course, we who have been in these processes locally are very concerned that others should not experience the same thing. So finally, what lessons the Council of State is taking into account in the new processes is important in this matter. What will the road continue to look like for the plans of Health Møre and Romesdal, seen from the Council of State? There are issues that should not hang in the air, but that should become clear to our citizens and to us who should be in it also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1684	I can join in very much of what the representative Botten said, with the local perspective she put into the matter, and the historical description that lies behind it. This has been a long process in our state – a long and strenuous process, a process that has created contradictions, and which we hope to eventually land. The population in the North Moravia and Romesdal and subsequently throughout the Moors and Romesdal have lived for a long time with uncertainty about the future hospital offer. There is a situation that predominates in the neighbouring relationship between two regions, which basically has everything to do with cooperation, but where the hospital case takes a lot of attention and energy. The process of setting up a new joint hospital for North-Møre and Romesdal has in principle been ongoing since the end of the planning and construction of a new hospital in Molde in 2010, and then after a long planning phase. It was totally on the rise. Then, too, the matter caused great frustration in the population, and there were demonstrations. The decision on the new North-Møre and Romesdal joint hospital was taken by the previous government and the then Minister of Health and under the same health company law that we now govern. It was a decision that was very controversial and could in itself deserve a closer review. After the decision was taken by the then Minister of Health and the Government, the population has nevertheless taken this decision, regardless of whether or not they liked it – simply because it is so inescapably important for us to put in place a new North-Møre and Romesdal hospital. I would like to discuss whether we should make changes in the way we manage our hospitals, but it has never been a prerequisite for the decision that the current Minister of Health has taken on the location of the new common hospital. It is the same principles of ownership management and the same Health Business Act that are followed by the current government as by the red-green government with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party in the driver's seat. When a hearing on the location of a new joint North-Møre and Romesdal hospital has now been held, it is my hope that it can help to remove any doubts about the legality of the decision. I followed the entire hearing myself. I have tried to get in the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee to the best of my ability. I have listened with great interest to the debate today. It seems clear to me that the health minister has complied with the Health Business Act and the principles of ownership management in the decision on land selection. The majority of the Committee has also reached that conclusion. I would essentially encourage the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party to be clear on how they will deal with this decision they themselves initiated in the last period, when they had the government power, and that there is no basis for any re-election. In this case, it would be very damaging for the further work on a new hospital in the North Moravia and Romesdal. I also want to ask Stortinget to notice what the user selection, i.e. those representing users and patients in Health More and Romesdal, has said in this case. They have been aware that the focus needs to be placed on the patient and the user, and that this process is about ensuring the best possible quality hospital services in Northern Ireland and Romesdal. They are concerned with a robust professional environment, the quality of the offer, the recruitment of professional personnel and, above all, the adoption of the necessary decisions, and that the progress of the new common hospital is not delayed. I feel a great need – and the whole of Møre and Romsdal feel a great need – to move on. That part of the process may not have matured as well as all the places, and of course it feels much more hurt and difficult where the decision has gone against it one even primarily wanted. But the decision on the land selection has been made, and we have to focus all our energy on the realization of the new North-Møre and Romesdal Joint Hospital. It deserves the patients, and it deserves the citizens of our state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1701	I would first like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office for a thorough and good work. A majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, including the Left, are clear in the criticism of the emptying of a new joint hospital for the North-Møre and Romesdal through various committee comments. I agree with the criticism of the health minister's handling of important parts of this process. As one of approx. 25 000 inhabitants in Kristiansund – I say approx. 25 000 inhabitants – and one of about 25 000 inhabitants. 62,000 people in Northern Ireland were aware of what kind of reactions and troubles would come if the Minister of Health were on his decision-making plan. This was a reaction before one knew what was the result of the board of directors and the decision of the Minister of Health. The Health Minister was to make his decision on Friday 19 December following the board meeting in Health Morene and Romesdal on 17 December and the board meeting in Health Mid-Norway on 18 December, i.e. three meetings within three consecutive days. Therefore, like others both in this house, I was in this room and more interested in the matter, clear that it would be unwise for the minister to run through his decision plan. The decisive business meeting on 19 December should be subjected to the legitimacy of the decision, at least a broader legitimacy. I use the term ‘legitimite’, although it has been discussed here today, because I think that is what is happening in terms of what is important politically in this matter. It should have been postponed, especially since some serious allegations were made in the Health Moor and Romesdal board meeting, as the representative Abid Q. Raja pointed out in his statement earlier today. So many serious claims were made that there was clearly a need for ‘time-out’. That the government didn't lend a ear to this at all, all of us who wanted a good land selection process have got involved. The whole of Mora and Romesdal are injured because of this, but of course most of the parts of the county to which this matter applies. The Council of State decision-making process was conducted, although there were very steep fronts after all that came the day after the Executive Director, Astrid Eidsvik, in Health Morene and Romesdal chose to leave, with the following reasons: "I now experience in the final phase of the work that Health Mid-Norway has intervened in the process locally before my control setting is ready. I interpret this to mean that Health Mid-Norway does not have confidence in my judgmental power attached to the demand for this demanding work, which means that I am now ready to resign as managing director." This has been pointed out earlier in the debate, and I think that the representative Kolberg reflected on this in a good way. It's important to get these things out. So the text from Eidsvik came from a person – Eidsvik – who had the leading work on the hospital case, the site election case, and who enjoyed great respect as a health administrator, a person with solid integrity and who I have the absolute impression of had a solid ‘standing’ in both health and other environments in the county. In retrospect, it has become apparent that there were considerable dragonfights between Health Mid-Norway and Health More and Romesdal, dragonfights that were at the heart of the committee hearing, in the committee's proceedings and in the position that we have on the table today. There was uncertainty about how to interpret signals from the Minister of Health, possibly that there should have been no signaling during the last months of the investigation from summer 2014 to December 2014, i.e. significant uncertainty about what had happened. Just a few weeks before the managing director of Health Møre and Romsdal withdrew, the director of Health Mid-Norway was asked by the Health Minister to dismiss the managing director of Health Mid-Norway. She did not allow herself to instruct and chose to resign, and both the Chairman and the Executive Director left in October. So she didn't get pushed. All of this shows that there were ugries behind them. It'll be my interpretation. The issues I have pointed out are reflected in the position we have on the table and have been involved in the debate. There is a turbulence and a drag between health services that took place in the weeks and months before December 2014. But it was only when the Managing Director of Health Møre and Romsdal went on dramatically, that the matter of plotting really appeared in the ocean surface. Not least, the drag fight and the internal and partially closed processes between Health Mid-Norway and Health Møre and Romsdal are an important cause of the spectre that the case has created. Some of these are explained and referred to in the setting and in the attachments. The Council of State dismissed the request for a better time to decide in the case that there was a problem in any case, and that it was best to make a decision quickly – freely quoted. The fact that the case is now more acute than ever, where the municipality of Kristiansund and other municipalities in Nordmøre now consider trying the case in law, shows that this is more than a de minimis location case. Many feel, rightly or not, led behind the light of what they think is a process of material error and defect. It should be a matter of concern to the Council of State that the legitimacy of the resolution is sparse in many. In any case, I am concerned about how to find a common platform and trust for future cooperation, not only in the area of health, but also in other areas where cooperation is important and partly necessary. This should also concern the Council of State, because it is this that drives the region like a mare now. Here's a job to do locally. Here's a job to do centrally. I understand that it is the Council of State's handling of the matter that is the main concern of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and that there are approaches to the behaviour and handling of the Council of State that are essentially here. But in order to understand the framework within which the Council of State acts, it is absolutely necessary to bring forward the facts that I have mentioned here and that many others have also been involved in in the past. I have respect for the extensive work done by the rapporteur in this matter, and I also agree with many of the comments made by the People's Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and others. I notice that all the parties, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, come up with criticism of the health minister's handling of the matter. At the same time, I note that despite some strong criticism from parts of the committee, there are no parties who believe that the Council of State has crossed all the lines. I am confident that the members of the Committee and an overall committee have carefully considered the matter. The matter has been significantly investigated, and a wide-ranging open consultation has been carried out, a hearing that the Left was very concerned about. Nevertheless, questions remain unanswered and unclear to me, how the Council of State has behaved in terms of ownership management, good ownership, and whether he has exerted undue pressure on the underlying governments. I have to live with that. The process has been impeccable, pointed out the representative Gunvor Eldegard, and drew the line back to August 26, when the councillor Höie said he was heading towards Molde. Yes, that ambiguity is central to me too: what this has meant for the outcome of the emptying process and the emptying question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1746	That in January the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided to set in motion preparations for a separate case of the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s management in connection with a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal, got a lot of attention, and that was not without reason. For the most part, we've had several cases in the Norwegian hospital in the last few years where people have asked questions about how healthcare professionals are actually run democratically, but the case in More and Romesdal got people to ask a lot of questions, and it was quite obvious that a need to get proper answers. I notice that the Progress Party and the Right clearly underlined in the comments that they thought such a case was unnecessary. I'm very disagreeable. I think those who have both eyes and ears need to understand that this matter was important. Whatever the conclusions of a draft, it was unlikely that this matter was brought to light in the way the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has done. So a number in Stortinget thought that a control case on ownership control was necessary. We all need to respect the fact that hospital and hospital policies are a particularly important provision of well-being that one expects to be governed in a democratic way. There was a lot of public attention about the process of placing a new hospital for the North-Møre and Romesdal. The government's response to the Storing did not help to inform the cause. It was still unclear in what way, formally or informally, the Ministry of Health and Health had been involved in the process, and it was only after this was a matter that a person got a proper answer to it. One had to ask five times before one got a clarification, and that was a necessary clarification. There are a lot of things that are described in this setting, but I want to focus on three paragraphs. It's Section 16, it's Section 26, and it's Section 36. In the case of § 16, he has been mentioned a great deal here today. He says: «Owners may not exercise ownership control in undertakings other than business meetings.» In a letter from the Department in 2004, which is also confirmed in the setting, the Ministry writes: «If the owner gives instructions outside the business meeting, this is not binding on the board of directors of the entity.» Further: ‘Of course, there is nothing to prevent the Board from taking decisions in accordance with informal ‘signalling’ from the owner, and it does not exempt the Board from the responsibilities conferred on it by the Health Business Act.’ [[...]] I also mean that the Minister of Health had an honest description of what we talk about when we talk about informal governance. In the hearing, Minister for Health Höie said: ‘A director may contact me and say that an assessor should initiate a process of closure of a maternity ward in a hospital. Everyone sitting here knows that starting such processes is extremely demanding. There's a lot of unrest in your own organization. It would have been of great importance to the authority of their leaders, not least if it is that one knows that such a process would in any case end, for example. that at the business meeting I stopped the process, or that the Storting would oblige me to stop such a process. It must be possible for a director, for example: before a start of that kind of difficult process, to contact me as the Council of State and say: If I start such a process, will it be a hopeless political project, or is it possible to proceed with it? They're good leadership. I must be able to answer it without necessarily having to inform the Storting about such a contact, because then it will lead, to ensure that the political framework around the enterprises works, will not be possible to deal with it." For me, this is a very important description to get from the Minister of Health. I could suspect that such control happened, but here we get it in black and white. I think it's quite okay and quite understandable that a person has informal meetings with the entrepreneurs, that one has a meeting where a report on quality, where one reports on the economy, but that one here says that one has informal meetings about new processes, I think it's worth noting. One might imagine what kind of situations we can get into, and what kind of situations we've been in, when the Council of State has had informal contact that he won't inform the Storting about, which also happened in this case before there was a case in the Control and Constitutional Committee. I don't think we can have it so that it's informal control signal that basically puts the control too much of what's going to happen in the hospital sector. We have fresh examples of this actually happening. After the Council of State's hospital speech in January, a State Secretary went out for an interview in a local way and said that the hospital at Tynset should be protected, it should not miss the emergency surgery. As a result, the Hospital Inland changed its processes. They had a hearing case about it and pointed out the informal steering signals given by a State Secretary. It is well and good and no crime, but I think this shows how the informal governance signals in the health sector have actually been so important and are perceived so strongly that they have actually taken over the need to have the formal governance meetings or to bring it into the business meeting. One might ask – I don't want answers, but I can only ask – is it such that the Southern Hospital, by hand and by chance, has an agreement with today's Minister of Health that it is acceptable politically to shut down the food department in Flekkefjord? Is it true that at the time there had been a probable contact between the Hospital Telemark and the Ministry of Health and Health that the closure of Rjukan and Kragerø was acceptable politically? Several have indicated that it has not been a real process when the meeting came two days after each other, i.e. that the regional health service had met one day, and then it is a business meeting the next day. It was about the same thing that happened, because there were two days between the board meeting in Health South-East where one shut down two local hospitals, and to one, two days later, had confirmed it in the company meeting. It is probably not within what is expected to be an acceptable procedure, so that one can get involved in the cases. At that time no one responded to this. But I am glad that Stortinget now sees the search light on that case. I also want to show you what was recorded by, among other things. Representative Jenny Klinge, pointed to by the Ministry of Prop. 120 L for 2011-2012: «Member States may choose to exercise ownership in close proximity to the undertakings, so that the undertaking becomes almost an underlying administrative body, or the State may act as a highly withdrawn owner and hold business meetings only when required by law.» This shows that what has happened is not a crime, but it shows the big problem of today’s practice and today’s health law. The result is that we have a way to control that is essentially a management model without the same transparency requirements and the same process requirements. I fear that we will not take the consequences of this case, and that in the future too – we will deal with a major issue about the national hospital plan – we will have processes adopted in the future. So to Section 26 the Storting decided in 2012 to legislate in Section 26 that the board meeting should be open. It had been practiced since 2004, but then there were also legal exceptions. In the light of this, I have to say that it is very unfortunate, especially in cases where there are great contradictions and a high level of conflict, to close the board. Whether you're allowed to do that or not, I think it's up to the Health Agency to have a closed board meeting. I see what the Stortinget decided in 2012, in what kind of cases it seems that it is okay that a closing door. It is quite fine when it comes to privacy, but paragraph 2 states that a board meeting can also be closed when it comes to briefing on a matter ‘which is at a preparatory stage in the company’s proceedings’. I think there's reason to be critical of paragraph 2, and I say that even if I've been involved in adopting it. The background to that legalization was precisely to ensure more openness in healthcare professionals and in the administration and in the processes there. But I'm not sure that change has contributed to what was the authority. I think it takes a lot more to close a meeting, even if it's early in the case. The foundation of the ministry was, in 2012: ‘The Governing Board may also need to engage in non-binding discussions on such briefings without the exposure of views discussed at this stage outside the Governing Board. The disclosure of provisional views by the Governing Board may give rise to expectations of a particular outcome. This may bind members of the Governing Board in relation to the proceedings at subsequent meetings of the Governing Board. For example, it may be difficult for a member of the board to change his provisional views on a matter when early views are already exposed externally.’;» The experience we have in this matter shows that this is not challenging for a board member. What is challenging for a member of the board is the debt of decisions behind closed doors, and that those who make decisions, i.e. the inhabitants, are not able to know where one stands, not knowing what the process is, and not knowing how the decisions are actually taken. The law may be that way, but I'm critical of a practice where a lot of people use this without thinking about the consequences. This applies to § 36: I join what the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have concluded when it applies to § 36. Here it is undeniable, as I read the health insurance law, and as I also see what has come to mind, that the health minister has broken the law. I think it's strange that a person argues that there should be no exception to what kind of matters the Council of State can engage in, when one has a separate paragraph that says that when it comes to appointing or dismissing a managing director, it's not up to the Council of State. It is the responsibility of the entity. I reflect on what has come up about the process here, but I do not want to go into it, but I think it is understandable. Governments and departments are likely to receive many letters of concern about everything from leadership to professional offer. They probably get a lot of letters in the course of the year, but in this particular case they get a letter one day, and the next day takes an affair and calls directly to the director, with repeated conversations also on the weekend – not only with the requirement to dismiss a managing director, who according to health law is a board job, but one also asks that the director be seated. I still don't understand that this is something that should be done this way and then trace, even if it should be a personal matter. Here I think the setting should go further into that matter. I notice that the Council of State answers that it is purely formal it is without doubt so that it is the board which according to the promise both appointed and intended managing director, but: «I believe, on the other hand, that it is also relatively clear that I, as the owner, can ask the Chairperson for concrete measures that are not up to me to decide at the business meeting.» Then we disagree about that way of interpreting health insurance laws. If this is the interpretation to be used, Section 36 does not have any value at all. I refer to Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt, who says it this way: ‘Yes, as the Council of State itself refers to this in its answer, so I see it as a clear violation of the law.’ Finally, I would like to refer to the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, which the representative Jenny Klinge also mentioned, where one makes this as a matter of whether the Council of State can work effectively enough with health policy towards the Executive Board. I want to make it clear that this isn't about being effective. This is about democracy, it is about popular governance, and it is about open processes when we are going to adopt something as important as how our hospital services are to develop. It is an extremely important matter that I believe many people will go into and read about afterwards. The majority in this Chamber do not think that the Minister of Health has broken health law, but the statement of case and the hearing shows for all the world that Norwegian hospitals today are not being run in a way that has confidence in the population – and that is the Council of State's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1817	Much has been said in this matter that the Christian People's Party can stand behind. We've kept our main post, so this will be a short comment from my side. We may think of the location of a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romesdal, but the case today is about the department's ownership management related to a new hospital. This has been a demanding matter for everyone. We hear that it has been demanding for the Committee, but not least it has been demanding for those who have been involved in the process for several years, and especially demanding for the people of Northern Ireland, who may be left with more questions than answers. The Christian People's Party is critical of parts of the process, as our representative in the Committee has explained. After thorough work, there is, as I said, no basis for criticising the Council of State on the basis of the communication he has had with the regional health business in this case. We cannot see that there have been steering signals beyond what the law and regulations provide. However, what the Council of State can be criticized for is the way he intervened in the case to dismiss the former director, Trond Michael Andersen, in Health Mid-Norway. It was an unfortunate dismissal case, and some ask questions as to whether this can be seen in the context of the localisation issue. What should be further worked on is how the dialogue between regional and local levels should be formal. The way former director of Health More and Romsdal, Astrid Eidsvik, was treated was very regrettable – among others. the pressure she had to experience. As the Christian People's Party sees it, a strong pressure was put on the local health company to reach consensus. This was not in line with the agreed process, where the local company had a clear view that it was they who owned the process, that it was where the mandate was given and the task was to be resolved. Although no one, nor Astrid Eidsvik, could confirm that she was not given the opportunity to present an independent assessment of the matter to her board, it was the pressure she experienced, created by the strong expectations Health Mid-Norway had created towards her. Especially the last month before the matter was decided, she experienced this strongly. This led to her departure, and the question many people ask themselves – in the North Moravia in particular – is: Would the location of a new hospital have been different if Astrid Eidsvik had completed the process? Of course, these are just speculations. The Christian People’s Party has therefore said that the sense of role and the way in which the process between the regional and local enterprise was carried out requires a follow-up and clarification of roles and how the communication between these two levels should be implemented. This has been immodest and must be pursued in the seams. The majority must look at today's legislation and assess whether the legislation is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1836	I realized that the representative of Kolberg asked for an answer to the question of what we can learn from this matter, and what I have learned from the matter. I was also in the committee hearing. The representative of the Countess in his article today presented and described what I said there, but I would like to repeat it. I believe there is reason to say that it would probably have made sense to have a different progress on the decisions. I have explained the background to why it happened this way, but I have also been clear that it would make sense to have it different. That is a political justification. So someone is trying to pull this over to a more formal discussion about, among other things. management law and sound decisions. It's a line of argument against the decision order that I disagree with. Because it is not that I, as a business meeting, am familiar with the basis of the decision at the time Health Mid-Norway has made its decision. This is a process that both me and the department have been following for a long time. The same decision-making basis that the two boards had was available at the same time to us. I have been visiting the various sites, talking to the rapporteurs in the different municipalities, etc. The only thing I needed to know before I made the final decision was what the board thought about the two options. And there's nothing a long time needed to get into; one has a good basis for making the decision. But politically, I agree that – in the future – it would have made sense to have a longer time between decisions, precisely to prepare the basis and legitimacy of the decision in the population. The second thing that I believe a teacher of this case is that it should have been much clearer to both the population and Health Moor and Romesdal, that this was a decision that was not for the board of Health Moor and Romesdal to take, but that the lowest level was Health Mid-Norway, and that the decision was to be taken at the business meeting. Because it was probably the impression that what Health More and Romesdal meant in this case, was the conclusion. This should have been communicated more clearly over a longer period of time. It brings me to this climate change, which many people have experienced, in connection with a new management in Health Mid-Norway. There are two points which were also raised in the hearing, which are not affected. One is that this climate change was due to a new phase in the decision, namely the phase from investigation to conclusion. I am convinced that it had led to a completely different contact, regardless of who had been in the management of Health Mid-Norway. The other relationship, which is also quite significant, and which the director Kinserdal also stated in the hearing, was that he had long demanded greater commitment from Health Mid-Norway in this matter – the director of Health Moor and Romesdal had called for greater commitment from Health Mid-Norway in this matter. It is also manufactured as if Eidsvik withdrew after pressure from Health Mid-Norway alone. It's important to go to the hearing. There you can see that much of the reason that Eidsvik gave was that she felt that she did not have the chairman's support in this matter. And it's the board of Health Møre and Romesdal who are decision-making levels in this case. Someone might like to present it as if the pressure came from Middle Norway, that it serves the case, but Eidsvik's reason in the hearing was that she felt that she had a pressure from the board of directors, and that the board of directors did not support their conclusion. It's actually something a managing director has to be able to deal with, and it's actually the board that makes decisions in this kind of case, not the managing director. So to the relationship between Health Mid-Norway and Health Moor and Romesdal – and the follow-up. It is absolutely right that the two-level boards have an independent responsibility to make an independent decision. If they experience that they are given instructions or otherwise feel overwhelmed, they have every opportunity to say that our decision is this, and may say that a review of it has to be taken at a level above. However, there is no obstacle to close contact between the two levels of government, and these boards are working to see if common solutions can be found. It is quite right that the rapporteur said in his statement, namely that the law is very flexible at this point. It is also well described in several articles in the debate. The law is flexible in that one can have close follow-up between the owner and the health region. It is also the case that the same rule as between the Minister of Health as the Enterprise Meeting and the Health Region applies between the health region and the local health enterprise. So health regions can choose to have a close follow-up against health businesses, or they can choose to have a great distance. It is likely to vary over time, and not least in phases of a decision and by difficulty. That's also what the law says. It was also part of these meetings that were held, which also Health Mid-Norway has criticised, linked to e.g.. transparency legislation. Then again a number of questions related to Section 36 have been asked. We were very clear on that. My opinion is the same as several people have expressed here. It's also going to be the leadership and attitude of that law further, that it's the board that's responsible for both hiring and dismissing management, and that there's nothing the corporate meeting can move up to. But that doesn't mean that I agree with the description that individual representatives here have had of the actual case, that one here has been involved, and there I will refer to members of the committee who have well described from the pulpit how that issue has been handled by the committee. That's why there's no basis for going into it concretely now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1857	As this debate has shown, this is an incredibly complicated matter in relation to a demanding law when we are going to deal with this issue from a control point of view. There is considerable uncertainty about how the law should be applied, and therefore a thorough review was essential. It was crucial to get the whole thing out of the review of all the issues that have been raised in the debate, and it falls to me a little heavy for the chest that one is criticized for having done one too thorough job, seen in the light of the lack of confidence that was the background to the matter, and the many claims that came up. It was therefore necessary for me, as the case-rapporteur, to address the various claims and put them in the right perspective. I think it is a perspective that has not emerged, either from the Right Party or from the Left Party, in the Committee's position. I noticed that no one has criticised the setting for an incalculable impact page or for errors. I very much appreciate that, because it is an incredibly demanding review to make sure that it is as objectively correct as possible. I have also noticed in the discussion those who were supporters of the decision taken by the Council of State. When they have indicated that the rapporteur has made a mistake, I have asked them to go through the setting, and after they have done so, there have been no further enquiries about it, and I think that is interesting. The Health Business Act has three economic and legal maritime units, and it provides a demanding governance model. I believe this discussion to those degrees has shown that such a model is incredibly demanding to steer by. We have capable leaders, we have capable board members, we have well-paid people – yet we experience in the process after the process that there are creating conflicts and a debate in the public space that we were supposed to be in front of. This case has therefore caused far more people to experience what complexity is involved, through the knowledge and experience that the case provides. I want to say that if we've now spent a lot of hours here, it's probably spent time on a positive public education, a raising of consciousness. But I am asking the question of whether the debate has actually led to the fact that not least the uncertainty may have increased for those who are going to administer and practise the law in the future. For what is after this debate within and outside the intention of the law? It's very demanding to understand. I understand that there may have been greater certainty that one has leaders who will be safe on their practices, because they are always in close contact with the Council of State and know what the Council of State means, and those leaders will be able to have greater security. So some of the lessons here may well be that the uncertainty that this whole matter has created leads to more and more leaders contacting and burdening the department with many necessary and not necessary things, because for a long time it must be certain that one has the Council of State’s ‘vigilance’, as it was in old working party circles in the Gudbrandsdalen. The members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have pointed out that the sector is covered by the Public Service Act § 2c. This applies to health establishments. Section 17 of the Administrative Act applies to ensuring that the case is well informed before a decision is taken, and further, the central paragraph of the Health Business Act, Section 16, on governance – and informal governance. No one from the Committee has said otherwise than that the State Council may govern in an informal manner as long as it is known to the public. What was therefore done in connection with the government secretary's steering signal regarding the hospital at Tynset is quite fine. It led to radical changes in the setting and further process in Hedmark, but it's okay, because it's openness. But what unfortunately has become culture is that it is governed very extensively without that transparency. That is what is critical, and that is what needs to be debated further. In the case of § 26 and § 26a, on open board meetings, there is a good principle, but many are creative, and one redefines ‘government meetings’ to ‘seminars’, seminars that then deal with matters in such a way that they actually make fundamental decisions. It's a bypass, and there's got to be a clear tightening if you're going to get a legitimacy of it all. It is unacceptable that the views of the Council of State are asked for to adapt to this view — and this is not the case without the opinion of the Council of State being expressed in the administrative configuration. It is in these matters that we have now raised, the different issues at the different times, a fact, and it has not been followed that it has emerged, and it is in my opinion critical. The majority, all except the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, believe that if there is a professional disagreement between the different levels of responsibility, this shall be brought to the attention of the public and not obscured, and that this is a prerequisite for the governance of the specialist health service to be subject to democratic control, in order to obtain the necessary legitimacy. The Council of State was concerned about what happened to the intervention of the Council of State in relation to the Chairman of the Board of Health Mid-Norway. I said that – and I repeat it: Just like all relationships indicate in that case, this is not a personal matter. It's not a human resources issue; it's an intervention by the Council of State to create a new climate change, which it also led to those degrees. Paragraph 36 of the Health Business Act is a thematic exception to what the Council of State can do – sentence, I would say sentence. But here borders are being moved, here a new culture is being established by the fact that the Council of State can also intervene at the point on which it has been specifically said that the Council of State should not go into. Therefore, it is quite clear that the behaviour of the Council of State is a criminal offence, in my opinion. What is most difficult, and what is most serious, is that the Council of State's illegal intervention against Marthe Styve Holte's responsibility led to the destabilization of the entire organisation, with the consequence that the Board of State's empty elections at the corporate meeting on 19 December lacked confidence and legitimacy. So what happened there is a destabilization in connection with it. But more importantly, there is a destabilization in the future, so that the organisation in More and Romesdal does not function properly. If the Council of State is not willing to change its behaviour and take a completely different form of maritime critique as to what has been done, and point to leaders who have not done their job, I think it will be difficult to get the organisation back on track. As a result, the economic base of such a large investment will be weakened. It will be weakened, and the possibility of realising the necessary investment will be weaker. That is why I want to join the seafarer as the representative of Kolberg said that the Council of State Höie and the government should assess whether the decisions have sufficient legitimacy, and that is, as I said, crucial for the further cooperation and development of the hospital organisation. This must be taken over by the Council of State. This has not happened today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1883	I have declined a number of interesting invitations during the debate, but the last post, in which the case-rapporteur interprets the debate to the point that not all points in the referral from the case-rapporteur have been fully commented and rejected, can be taken in income because the setting is ‘objectively correct’ – I think the expression was – and that there is no bias in the production either. I think that's a very bold interpretation. At least I want to use the opportunity now to take an explicit distance from it, also because part of the article and the reasoning at my discretion is based on completely incorrect notions of the governance system in the state. I must also say that this criticism also most directly affects the Workers' Party, in particular at the speech made by the representative, Mr Kolberg, who, at all essential points of state law, violates the rules of the game we have. Now we are at the end of the debate, but I think we should remind ourselves, of course, that it is within the freedom of expression that any member of a committee formulates his view of life, and also expresses it whether one might think that we have a different state law than the one we had until this debate actually agreed that we had. But I don't think it's dressed when this is summed up on some points to be a majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Then you can say that the adverse effects of it are not significant, because this concerns a specific case, a localization case, a hospital case. You might also have comforted yourself with that, but it's clear that if this had been the Greatness's view in a law case, where the committee's attitude had actually been part of the interpretation background, you might have seen it differently. I will also come back to what was disputed earlier today and quite well illustrated in the reply with my associate representative Erik Skutle. It was this that it was expressed that there are no limits to what the Storting from a control point of view should express itself in legal matters. Our entire state law is based on a division between the operating business, which is the government – which I do not have to go into here – and the Stortinget, which, through its legislative activities, just gives general legal norms and then leaves to independent bodies to apply these legal norms to concrete cases of doubt, conflict, actions and what it might be. It is so bearable in our state law that I think it should be noted at the end of this long debate. It can't be undisputed. I would also very much like to distance myself from the interpretation that silence on points that have not been commented on means that it is a full-blown yes to the rapporteur's view on this. It is not at all, it is an expression of the need to give priority to what seems to be the most important thing in the debate, and then it is clear that it is necessary to say no to some detours of the type by which the whole setting is permeated. My last political point here is that it surprises me that the Workers' Party does not have a single independent remark, but has joined this caravan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1898	I do not think that I speak so unpresciously that I say that I interpret the debate in support of the rapporteur's remarks and work and interpret it as support because it is not – as the representative Tetzschner says – fully commented and rejected. What I said was that what has been done has been done in such a way that it should be as objectively correct as possible, not with impact sides. It has not led to any reactions from the environments that are best acquainted with it, those that are close to what is at the heart of the matter. No one has been able to point out that there are some errors that have any meaning in what has been made. It was the most important thing for me. When the representative Tetzschner now says that the whole case and the whole case presentation mean a lack of understanding of the governance arrangements in the state, this is something we hear quite often. It's important that you soon get to know what there are some representatives misunderstand to those degrees. We have our laws, we have our preprocessors, and we have our guidelines in the control committee – and we follow them. We're dealing with the governance system in the state, and what's central to governance in the state and in the public sector, is that it's going to be public, and it's going to be open, so that you can get a discussion on a counter in the cases. There's some of that that's the fundamental failure of this case now. I recognise that the position of the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV in comments does not have a majority in the case. This is not a majority of the criticisms we have raised. It is not the majority that we point out that § 36 is broken. There is no doubt about it, but we have expressed our opinions with clarity, and we are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1909	Of course, there is a certain possibility that the control committee will become unpopular throughout the Storting as we continue for so long, but what was mentioned in a previous post by the representative Tetzschner, and which he now reinforces through the last post, cannot be contradicted – that is mainly why I am speaking. The fact that we here in Stortinget state council and/or government have broken laws and decisions is, of course, the task of the control committee. It may sound as if Tetzschner does not like it, because he does not like the interpretation put forward by other members of the Control Committee. And not enough with it: once he has said that, he says that we challenge statehood, because it is up to the courts to judge whether a law is broken or not. It raises the fundamental question of principle that I now, as the chairman of the control committee, must bring here in the Chamber: how are we going to carry out our work if we are not to have an independent right to say that this is inside or outside? We've been doing that for at least the entire previous period that I've been with, and in all the other matters that we have to judge. The representative Tetzschner disgusts himself with these arguments because he doesn't like the conclusion, and he does it almost every time we have this kind of debate. I don't know who he thinks he's making an impression on, but it's not on me. Because we have that exact right. That's what's meant by our whole work. That is why, in this case that we have to deal with here now, we have said what we think should be inside and outside. The representative Tetzschner and the whole Stortinget must be aware that no one has said that the Council of State has violated the law except on one point. Then we can discuss it – so § 36, we can discuss it – but to claim that we, who believe anything other than the representative Tetzschner, break the state order, it is of course to go too far. That's what I'm about to say. Therefore, I would reject the approach of the representative Tetzschner to the position of the control committee in Stortinget; it is built on the wrong basis. It is not that there has been no reason to go into this matter. The whole thing shows it – and at least I mean it, there may be alternative opinions to it, and it's perfectly okay if someone thinks otherwise – but the Council of State does, of course, make certain cautious concessions, on some of the points. He could have gone a little further, so the matter had been much easier. But I'm sure he won't be able to do that, because then there'll be too many concessions. In politics, we should be good at saying from, but also make concessions. We're not always, and it would have made the discussions more fruitful and better. Finally, after I have said this, just a few brief comments on what the Council of State also said. He said that when it comes to the tempo-- 17th, 18th, 19th. – it is understood that for political reasons you should not follow that pace. It is good that he says that – because I agree. But then he says, but not the administrative, there's no breach of the administrative law. No – I was saying – all right then, but at least that's the meaning of not saying it and saying that all these organs are completely free, because that's not the case. This is not how it works when you have made an agreement and put in a pressure. Then there's a question of whether they work completely independently. I have doubts as to whether this is not contrary to the law. That's why I'm just commenting. At least the department should be careful not to do more of these things, especially in matters that are very conflicty. Then there are only difficulties out of it, as it has become in this case. At least you should actively learn that, not only politically, but also in relation to the argument that the bodies are independent. Then I just want to say in the end that I have never thought that Health Moors and Romsdal is the body that should decide. Everyone understands that. And it's very clear from the setting that we're saying it's the Council of State that has the right to decide. So we've never said that. At least I've never said that, and I don't think anyone else has said it either. But what we know is that Health More and Romesdal were given the mandate it was given. We know that. There is a heavy political psychology in it, that they got it mandated in such a difficult situation and then were allowed to carry out this investigation almost to the end, and then it was cut short. It's clear that then it's going to be what it is, and that's what's critical in the matter, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1924	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1940	The background to this interpellation is focusing on the mineral industry and how we can facilitate the Norwegian mining industry. The mining industry is an industry that has a thousand-year tradition here in the country. The industry has always been an important factor in social development, and mining has created jobs that have provided the basis for both small and large communities throughout the country. The industry has also provided the basis for technological developments that have been important for the development of other industries. I think many people are not aware that products from the mining industry are part of almost everything we surround ourselves with in everyday life. Stone and processed stone are found in different variants in a wide range of utility items, ranging from mobile phones to even food products. There's a lot of demand for these minerals that we're so lucky to have in our mountains. The industry therefore has great opportunities to be a growth industry that can contribute to business development and jobs throughout the country, even in the future. The Labour Party is an industrial party and for us, the mining industry has a natural place in the discussion of what Norway will live on in the future, also in view of the green shift we are facing. The red-green government set the political agenda from the very beginning of the mineral industry. A new and modern mineral law replaced five other laws when it came into force in 2010. This was an important step in simplifying the legislation in the mineral field and creating transparent and predictable framework conditions in the mineral industry. Advocate General Arne L. The mound from the mining town of Løkken said at the time: ‘In the case of the unfathomable values in the rock, the odds are excessive. We're gonna have to end this. These values must also be managed sustainably and for the benefit of the population.’» I very much agree with that. The new Mineral Act was a good start, and former Minister of Industry Trond Giske followed up with his own mineral strategy presented in March 2013. One focused here on how to facilitate more value creation in the industry. However, the mining industry operates on non-renewable resources, which imposes additional requirements on both authorities and business operators. It is also a fact that mining has caused environmental problems around the country. In order to generate growth in industry, we need to ensure that Norwegian mineral industries are among the world's most environmentally friendly and actively seek future-oriented solutions. This interpellation was delivered three days before the permit was granted to Nordic Mining regarding the fjord landfill from Engebøfellet. I have to say I am pleased that the government has made a decision here, and I assume, of course, that the decision is based on good professional judgement. I hope, however, that this interpellation will not be a debate for or against maritime landfills, but on how to lift this industry and use the huge resources that are in Norwegian mountains, for these are resources that we and the rest of the world need. With the new law and the Directorate of Mineral Management, we have got a more appropriate administration in place. We need to be able to ensure that a predictable and effective procedure is a guide to the state, regional and municipal practice of legislation against industry. Over my ten years as rapporteur in Kvinesdal, I saw well that there was a growing need and that the municipality must be on the verge of being organized. We have to make sure that we continue to map the minerals we have around us across the country, and there is still a lot of work to be done here. In the revised national budget of the year, we see examples of a government with little predictability. In NGU's mapping program, it was cut by 5 million. kr in year. In 2010, MINN — the Mineral Resources Monitoring Programme in North Norway — was granted a long-term grant of 100 million. DKK over four years, and in 2014 10 million was added. SEK for a start-up allocation for mapping also in South Norway. NGU says they no longer have the predictability they had between 2010 and 2014, where the projects could be planned throughout the period. According to the NGU, the cut in the RNB will result in lower progress and costs in addition to money. The contract must be terminated and will lead to increased red tape and new contracts will be more expensive. What the government is doing in the RNB doesn't testify to a willingness to prioritize the industry. Following the launch of the new Mineral Law and the Mineral Strategy, Norway was ranked 10th by the renowned Canadian research institute Fraser Institute, which annually ranks over 100 countries according to their attractiveness to the international investor market of the mineral industry. After the blue-blue government took over, we now see that last year Norway fell from 10th to 18th place on this ranking. In Sweden and Finland, which is No. 1 and No 2 in this ranking, the surveys are almost complete, while in Norway we have a coverage of geophysical data of 75 pst. in North Norway and only 32 pst. in South Norway. The background to the downgrading of Norway is enough, as the industry itself says, that despite the fact that the current government proclaimed the mineral industry to an important field of activity, we are still waiting for concrete measures — not least in terms of process and predictability. Now we have a decision in the Engebo case, but I ask if the government has other plans for the industry. Last year we challenged the industry to send us a list of the ten most important measures politicians can take to stimulate increased activity and growth in industry. The list makes a lot of recordings, and I hope the Council of State will consider them. The industry places emphasis on, inter alia: the need for predictability and that the certainty of outcomes should increase earlier in the process. The industry also wants to identify potential minerals when starting large construction and infrastructure projects, and to consider consideration zones around mineral resources. Furthermore, a further development of the Mineral Management Directorate as a strong player in the management of mineral resources needs to be provided with sufficient resources to be an important player towards municipalities and industry. At the same time, they stress the importance of ensuring the competence and development of new knowledge. The NTNU Institute of Geology and Mining Engineering plays an important role in this regard, and the industry is committed to giving them national responsibility for the training of salvage engineers. Professionally, we also need to ensure appropriate vocational training and apprenticeship provision within relevant lines. An exciting input is also to establish a dedicated research programme with a focus on sustainable operation. I also address the problem of helping to ensure geological competence at regional level, and to take an initiative against the Sameting in relation to the Mineral Law. These were some of the recordings I made, and I look forward to further debate and the Minister's comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e1994	The Government is committed to facilitating value creation throughout Norway. Business in Norway needs more legs to stand on, and we need to have a diverse business life both in cities and in the districts of our country. Mineral industry is an important part of Norwegian business — with high potential — which provides jobs throughout the country. Today, there is a difficult situation for parts of the industry in Norway. More minerals and metals have lower prices than before. Some raw materials, such as iron, have fallen sharply in price compared to the situation one to two years ago. However, mineral prices are significantly higher now than they were just ten years ago. The growth of the world’s population also indicates that minerals will also be needed in the future. The government therefore has good faith in the continued long-term contribution of the mineral industry to the value creation in Norway. The representative, Omland, points out that the Stoltenberg government set up a new mineral law and a mineral strategy. The representative points out that in his annual ranking of mineral-friendly countries and regions, the Fraser Institute placed Norway as number ten on the list in 2013, but it was actually before the mineral strategy was presented. Then they place Norway in the 18th place in 2014. There are some things that are worth noting about the Fraser study. First, both the 10th place and the 18th place on a list of 100 countries and regions are quite good places. There are also some coincidences in the placement from year to year, among others. because the survey is based on a survey where the knowledge of respondents is unknown about the framework in Norway. From this point of view, the study may be seen as more of a reputational survey than an assessment by informed mineralists of the success of the framework for mineral extraction in Norway. The government believes that the mineral industry can lead to increased activity and employment in many parts of Norway. We know that there are great values in Norwegian mountains, and the mineral industry is an important field of activity for the government. Well-functioning municipal and regional planning is one of the most important framework conditions for the mineral industry. The government is therefore well in the process of simplifying and streamlining planning processes in order to ensure a good framework for business so that building is faster, cheaper and easier. Several simplifications in the plan part of the Planning and Building Act came into force at the turn of the year. Then it was e.g. adopted new indicative deadlines to ensure a faster handling of objections. Time limits ensure more efficient processes until final plan decisions. Simplifications have also been made in the regulatory framework for impact assessments. Good management of objections has been a challenge for several years, and objections have often led to long delays and unforeseeability of planned projects. The government has asked state officials and other opposition authorities to work to resolve matters at an earlier date. Furthermore, objections should only be raised where there are national or regional interests and local self-government should be emphasised. The government is working on further simplification measures for more efficient planning processes and aims to promote legislative changes both this year and next year. Mineral resource mapping is of great importance for exploration activities under the direction of private companies, and thus the long-term growth capacity of the mineral industry. The government has continued the geophysical survey of mineral resources in North Norway and South Norway. A well-functioning, knowledge-based and competent mineral management is a necessary basis for a valuable and sustainable mineral industry. We are therefore also continuing the further development and strengthening of the Directorate for Mineral Management. In the 2015 government budget, the budget was strengthened, and in the government's proposal for the revised national budget for 2015, we propose further strengthening. In two objections cases in 2014 and 2015, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has approved control plans for mineral extraction both in Nussir and Ulverygen in the municipality of Kvalsund in Finnmark, and in Engebøjellet in the municipality of Naustdal. For Nussir, an application for a processing permit is still pending, while Nordic Mining has also been granted an emission permit involving the use of marine landfills. The last case shows that it is possible to operate the mineral industry in Norway within an environmentally sound framework. Among other things, we have for the first time set out the conditions of an emission permit related to maritime food safety. International activities in the mineral industry have taken note of the Engebø case, the positive attitude of the Norwegian authorities and the fact that such decisions are based on facts and thorough investigations by the Norwegian administration. It is positive for the international belief in Norway as a mineral nation. I think it is clear that this government is also delivering results in the field of minerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2024	First, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. What she says about planning processes is important. I look forward to a matter of this, but I also feel that one could have been more specific in relation to that one said in the government statement to bet on this industry. I'm going to refer again to what one does in terms of e.g. mapping, which creates frustration. The 2013 strategy was a good target document. But as Trond Giske said during his presentation, he requires concrete action and an active industrial policy for the industry. So the question is what the government will use of concrete means to this industry. Will the Minister provide long-term and predictable funding for the remaining monitoring? And has the Minister planned to follow up what the industry sees as a desk decision – that the directorate has been given the opportunity on behalf of the municipalities to take over the municipal planning process, but that there are few municipalities that use it, and that the directorate does not have the resources to do so? Geological competence in the regions, on which I was concerned, is an important point, and also that the Minister would take an initiative in relation to the Sameting and in conjunction with the Mineral Law industry, so that one can see if one can get solutions in that area. In the future, the major cities will grow significantly, while major road and rail development has been announced and the need for building materials such as picks, gravel and strokes will be enormous, and it must be mined near where it is used. The municipalities as planning authorities must take this into account in their spatial planning. Does the government do anything to increase awareness and competence in that particular area? So will I also repeat the question that I had in a Question Time, where the minister was not present: will the government continue what is part of the mineral strategy presented by the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2037	To begin with, I perceive – and I have also expressed it – that the main content of the strategy put forward by the previous government, we have agreed, and we follow it up. Therefore, no new strategy for the mineral industry is presented. What the industry lacks, and what the industry lacks, are simpler framework conditions, simpler plans and implementation. This government, unlike the previous government, has simplified the planning processes. We've done that, and we're going to do that further. In addition, we have made decisions. They've been hard. There are decisions that require thorough review, great knowledge, but you actually have to make the decisions. We have. And I think that's the most important signal to the industry, that we say yes when we think it's the basis for that, and that we implement the decisions we think are right. I perceive that this government has been very clear to the mineral industry that this is an industry we are betting on, and that we have faith in. Then there have been some changes in the budgetary documents related to monitoring and increasing the directorate's ability to manage the planning process. Both parts are very important for the industry. But our concrete assessment – and we have to take it into each budget and revised – is that when we see that there is a basis for increased resources for the directorate, we make a change. I do not believe that this creates great unforeseeableness, but we are making a concrete assessment that is just going to benefit the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2046	What are we going to live on when the oil ends? There is a central issue in the societal debate and in the future debate. In all humility I have not answered that today either. What we know is that we need to create the jobs of the future while solving the climate crisis and other environmental challenges. Here, both the mineral industry in Norway can and should take a seat. Because in our country we have rich mineral resources, we have high environmental standards, and we have knowledge and environmental technology environments that can be put into action to further develop the industry and make it part of the green shift. Because when we talk about the new solutions to make our society more climate friendly, like electric cars, new train sets, wind turbines, gas ferries, etc., metals and minerals are needed in larger or tiny quantities. Norway has an ambition to be at the forefront of climate technology, and we are major consumers of many material goods in a global context. It is in the context that we need to put the mineral industry in Norway. I have heard it being said that we must say no to mining projects because we must bet on the environmentally friendly. Well, if we are to bet on the environment, Norway must also take its share of the responsibility for extracting those resources to a high standard both in terms of employee rights and the environment. By being active in this area, we can also be involved in and develop technologies and set standards that can benefit other countries. Mineral industry is also a very important part of Norway’s Northern Region Initiative. In North Norway there are great hopes for future value creation in the mineral industry. The municipality of Nordland and Finnmark have worked together to develop their mineral strategies and have a broad public debate on them. Under the previous government, the Mineral Act and the Mineral Strategy came into effect. And the question now, which I still don't think I've got a complete answer to, is, what will the government do next? There has been a common cross-political consensus over time that there is a need to balance different concerns with each other before, for example: says yes or no to mining projects. The environment and clean-up of workplaces is a typical and important balancing factor. There has also been a common cross-political recognition over time that it takes too long to make the necessary clarifications. In particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party were clear on that prior to the 2013 elections. Then it was said to go from dialogue to action in the north. Implementing power was a mantra. And now it's "conversion" which is the new word. But it seems in a way that the government is not very busy turning these words into political action. I am very pleased that the Engebø project has been clarified. The same clarification I expect the government to come to Nussir, where the Right and Advance Party have promised a quick clarification. Two years have passed since the election, and I therefore ask the Minister for Industry: When can you expect a final clarification on that project? The second concrete question I have for the Minister of Industry is: after the red-green government spent 100 million dollars. kr on mapping over a 2-3-year period, what does the current government see in terms of further monitoring of our rich natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2067	It is very fun that the interpellant Odd Omland saw Norwegian competitiveness and, in particular, the competitiveness of the mineral industry on the agenda. I have to say that it's a little ambitious when the interpellant gives the impression that it's the government that's in place that is going to be in debt for the mining country of Norway to fall on an international ranking list. I understand that the Labour Party's representative is concerned about the desire to invest in international investors in Norway because of mining policy and other policies in this country. Many in the Labour Party have claimed that having foreign investors is selling Norway. It's not like that. As I see it in Omland, it's good to hear that he also sees that this isn't about selling Norway. I have recently visited the mineral and mining company Omya. There is a large international group that also operates in Norway. The group itself claims that the Norwegian part of the company could not have existed without being part of a large international group. We also need foreign owners in Norway. It is good to hear that Omland is busy with it, if I perceive him correctly. When I visited this international group last week, they told me that they had to produce expensive and cost-intensive products in Norway – that gives the highest margins. Cheap mining product is completely impossible to produce in Norway. It is often the case that competitiveness is the result of policies over time, or decisions that change the competitiveness of the night. The company’s representatives believed that the overall cost level in Norway is very high, but also the sulphur Directive that has recently been introduced provides Norwegian exporters, depending on the use of ships, with significantly higher costs than many competitors. Norway has very high charges for shipping, and shipping wears down competition with heavy goods transport on both rail and road. Mining industries in this country have also been opencompetition disadvantages compared to the mining spirit that is not covered by the sulphur directive in the same way. Some countries that have been covered by this sulphur directive have adjusted their charges within other aspects of the charging system, such as: Finland – and this has led them to maintain their ranks. For example, lime production in Norway has has fallen substantially, while other minerals and products have had a strong increase. When I asked Omya directly what could improve the competitiveness of the mineral industry and the ability to invest in the owners of Norway, the answer was to reduce the fees and costs of maritime transport. Creating better profitability for industry is once again creating greater interest and better reputation among investors. This is probably where the Workers' Party itself has also contributed to a failure. We note that the government has also worked in this area both targeted and systematic so that shipping can become more competitive. Many good measures have been taken here, as I understand it, and there is more to be done in this sector, so that it can help the mineral industry improve its competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2089	As the interpellant writes, Norway was ranked 10th by the renowned Canadian research institute Fraser Institute, which every year ranks over 100 countries according to their attractiveness to the international investor market of mineral industries. That we dropped from the 10th to the 18th place is not a good direction, but it's actually, as the Minister of Industry says, not a bad place. It's a direction that's not good, but we're among the 20 best, and we're happy for that. It at least gives us a chance to still be able to be in this important business. The reason for this is, in fact, that an overly large proportion of environmental interests have been given the opportunity to present a scenario that does not match reality, and gives a picture of a political risk that affects Norway's reputation as a mineral nation, and perhaps especially for investors, who feel that investment is to be seen as very uncertain. Especially has the seabed been discussed politically and described very negatively, as if a ruining all life in the fjord – the Fördefjord has become an example of such a claim. Despite large and detailed monitoring and significant preparatory work focusing on environmental impacts, where the Directorate-General for the Environment sets out clear requirements and not least strong emission requirements, these claims are passed on. The alternative we have is land deposit, where we have experience, among other things. from Røros: ‘From an environmental point of view, Røros is an example of how it should not be done,’ says Rolf Arne Kleiv, professor of mineral engineering at NTNU.’ Drainage from the landfill, which is protected, leads a acidic and heavy metal run-off to Glomma, where copariona is destructive to eggs and fish juveniles. For Engebøfelet and Fördefjorden, sea depot is the best solution. That conclusion is based on minerals and metals to be extracted, the production process, and which chemicals are used. Finally, this is measured against the strictest environmental requirements. It shows that an ability to view the individual extraction site in such a way as to select the process and deposit solution that are environmentally sound. So a new quote: ‘Chemically, there is an advantage that excess masses remain in salt water where there is little oxygen and stable pH. If you're going to deposit masses containing sulphides, it's a big advantage with sea deposits, says Rolf Arne Kleiv." So to the question of whether we really need the operation in Engebøjellet. The mineral to be extracted is rutile, composed of titanium and oxygen, and is a very important mineral. Titan is used in the aviation industry, in the space industry, to make artificial hip, knee and other body parts that we, as a welfare society, depend very much on. Should we not take our responsibility as consumers and stand for a mining of material that we are highly dependent on, but leave it to other countries with completely different and worse environmental requirements than ours? Rutil we depend on in many products, such as measurement, food, medicine, toothpaste, etc., and as a nation, we have a responsibility of self-sufficiency. In other words, we also have a moral responsibility to make use of the natural resources that exist, and under a regime of strict, but far-reaching environmental requirements, so that both industry and investors can feel safe and secure when complying with the concession requirements that are intended. Nordic Mining is a company that has been waiting a long time for a government concession, including the red-green one. If we can assume that the Labour Party is careful and avoids political games, but if we go too far in the industry, it will have a great future. Norway is a country with large mineral deposits, and with some of the world's most stringent environmental requirements, we all have the means to raise this industry in line with the world's need for minerals, and that in a resilient way. Mineral nutrition will contribute to the shortage and value creation and important minerals needed by this country and all welfare communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2112	Mineral industry has a long history in Norway and is going to have a long history in the years to come, as an important food route, but it is also such that having a mineral industry leads to some dilemmas. It's a non-renewable resource, and it's clear that many of the projects we have involve major natural interventions. It does so both at the source of the resources and at the time of the landfilling of the waste. It has been mentioned earlier – now the interpellant does not want to have a discussion about Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden, which are the issues in question now, but it must nevertheless be mentioned. Norway is one of the very few countries that continues to carry out the sea-disposal of mining waste. In the Fördefjord, it is a matter of getting a fill of fjord, not of laying it permanently dead. But it's 3 square miles where you fill up with 150 meters by mass. It is clear that it will change the basic conditions of the fjord, and it will change this permanently in the years to come. In Repparfjord, there is a similar problem with the current conditions that are there, whether the masses will at all be within the control plan that has actually been laid down. This isn't just about these things. It's also about what code we have to deal with the landfills we have when the activity ends. It may, as mentioned earlier, be poor prices for some minerals right now, among other things. like it's been on iron. And you have to look at if the activity, for example. in Sør-Varanger would end again, if it was then built up the necessary clearing funds to take care of the landfills afterwards. That, I believe, is a responsibility that we have in common, to ensure that we also have the necessary resources in the mineral industry to deal with the problems that may be there when the activity stops. It is clear that it is important to have generally strict environmental requirements in this field – which we are proud to have in the oil industry – and Norway must aim to have the most stringent environmental requirements internationally. I also think, in comparison with the oil industry, we have to make sure that enough of the values within the mineral resources we have are left in the country. Should we also have in this field a natural resource tax that makes sure that there are actually enough values left in Norway? Minerals are a non-renewable resource. Internationally, we need many new minerals and metals in connection with new products, such as electric cars, which are also the new green industry. But it's also a fact that we're facing an international resource shortage that makes us have to think the whole economy differently. We have to do that, and we have to do it internationally, so that we make better use of the resources. We have to go from a linear economy to a more circular economy, where we get the reuse of the metals and minerals that we pick up. Then we must also look at the technology we have today. If, for example, the government Go all the way and give us an emission permit – now there is a proposal for Stortinget that we should not do it in Repparfjord – are we technologically so well equipped that we believe it is right to deposit the take-off masses in Repparfjord? Clearly, a great deal of resources will also be deposited in the spring. It's probably estimated that 1 400 tons of copper each year will be part of the landfill. It's 588 tons of chromium, and it's 240 tons of nickel. Allowing this to be deposited will also provide less opportunities in the future to extract more of the resource as technological developments develop. From the left, we believe that if sea deposits are necessary, both in the Fördefjord and in the Repparfjord, this shows that these are still not mature projects. The resources won't be gone. Then we have to wait to give permission – wait until we also have a technology that allows us to deposit take-off mass in a proper manner, without putting it in the fjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2130	I would like to thank the interpellant for lifting this topic. From the discussion so far here in the hall, we very much agree that this is an industry for the future, and that it is important to facilitate it. The red-green government came up with the new mineral law and its own mineral strategy, and it is good that the Council of State is now following up this strategy. But perhaps even clearer signals are needed, based on the pace and tone of the development of the industry. This is where you have to hang. To build up under the growth potential of the mineral industry, it is important to have dialogue with industry, and it is important to have an active industrial policy that builds up under such a type of industrial development. Large investments shall be made either to start scratch entirely in such a project or to develop existing installations. This requires predictability of the framework conditions and large economic investments. If you go into a procedure that gives you uncertainty about the number of years you have to go through the procedure and about the framework you have, it will be demanding for investors to be willing to bet. The risk increases. We are concerned about something right when we now say that predictability of processing is important, and that we need to look at how this can be reduced. When we talk about the Enbø project, this was a matter that started in 2007. Obviously, these are quite many years. How are we going to learn from what has happened there in the case of proceedings, and how have you come up with the investigations you have? I think we're going to have a discussion in the future in terms of landfill and landfill. But why not take this kind of impact assessment at first, both on land and sea landfill, so that you have the facts that are needed, which you must in any case come with during the procedure, and add to a quick and knowledge-based procedure? This will be important in the future. We have received signals from the industry that there is a need for increased geological knowledge at the regional level, as said by the interpellant. Then it is also important that we ensure the Institute of Geology and Mining Engineering at NTNU, so that we have a national offer there for rescue engineers. We need new ones into this industry. We need to be offensive when it comes to recruitment. I believe that the environmental focus that we have now, the technological development of this and new research projects will contribute to more people wanting to enter the industry because one sees a potential, one sees that it is an exciting industry for the future. Such an industry puts clear footprints on the environment, there's no doubt about it. We have to have strong ambitions for us to be in the front there, I think that's important. I see that the representative Grimstad is no longer in the Chamber, but he spoke of the hope for the industry of the Workers' Party giving predictable framework conditions. It is positive that he wants us to sit in government, but I think it is important that we manage to have predictability no matter who is in government, and that we are in agreement on what framework conditions this industry should have. Finally, a little about the purchasing system with regard to current procurement legislation: it is important to open up the cultural policy aspect by using Norwegian stone for signal building purposes. Today's legislation may say more about the purchase process itself than about what is to be purchased. Is it possible, when we are now discussing public acquisitions, otherwise, Minister of Industry, perhaps also to look at how pressure can be directed towards, among other things. Land construction, in terms of what to do with orders when to have this type of materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2152	I want to thank the interpellant for raising a discussion that is important in a Norwegian setting. What surprises me in the discussion is that one does not take the height of the very clear developments that have been in the mineral industry in recent years. Norwegian mineral projects depend entirely on high metal prices to be profitable, and there is not a high price for time. There are low metal prices that now allow investors to avoid mineral exploration. A little over a year ago, the mining company of Great Norwegian decided to lay down its subsidiary, Great Norwegian Gull. The company had been running yellow lead in Finnmark, Troms and Svalbard, but because of economic challenges with coal operations at Svalbard, which we have discussed in this room before, they chose to put the coal company down and put it out for sale, but no one would buy it. He, who was a daily leader in the company, Morten Often, then said: – There are low metal prizes for the time being, and there are some difficulties in getting projects started. Therefore, the willingness to invest in this type of operation is not particularly good for the time being. According to the Norwegian Bergindustrie trade association, Great Norwegian Gold is not an isolated case. They get a lot of feedback about the lukewarm interest in investing in the very mineral industry. Low metal prices over time are drawn as the main explanation, according to the Norwegian Bergindustrie. This image, with low prices and few who want to invest, rhymes very badly with some politicians' production of mineral nutrients like the future of Norway, and especially the future of North Norway. Drivers don't have a fixed height because these are industries that are vulnerable to price changes. In my opinion, the image of some of the mineral industries as a major industry for the future is a major derailment. The industry is struggling to finance mineral exploration. Low metal prices are the cause. It shows that mineral projects are only life-created in Norway when prices are very high, and I want to say that the previous and the current government's investment in mineral nutrition happened on an unlikely thin basis. One started with the higher prices in one year, in 2011, and then calculate that it was going to continue. But just a few years ahead, one sees that prices are completely different now than they were in 2011. So the question is, is there a lot of big business politicians gathering into discussion about mining an expression that this is an important industry for Norway to put heavily into the future? I don't think so. This is an industry that provides very little again, due to very favourable framework conditions, because of the situation they are in internationally. Very little of the values will be restored locally. Very little of the values will be returned to the country. And a lot of those who work in this industry are foreigners who often fly in and out. 50 pst. Of those who work in the mines in the churches, they fly in and out, they're not settled there once in a while. These are the platform communities we are developing, where little of the values are left in the community. One has to look through the entire framework of this industry, not only to make it more lucrative for Norway to have these industries here, but simply to see how we can make sure that there are lasting jobs, lasting values, which are left in the communities. And this is not something that affects the environment, given the discussions we have around it. If so, what could be an interesting mineral strategy for Norway? In Japan, they have started a project called Urban Mining. It was due to the Chinese market position in the mineral industry – the position when it relates to minerals on the world market. Because of the conflict around these islands that exist between Japan and China when it comes to rare minerals, they would hold this back from Japan – a country with no particular mineral itself, built on volcanoes. Then Japan began with what they called "urban mining". Urban mining is about exploiting the existing minerals that exist in urban waste, and they actually figured out that there were more minerals where they could find and extract in a traditional way by dispersing a mountain. Urban mineral farming may also be interesting for Norway — a country that has a different interest to take, and other industries that are very interesting and should attract more attention from more big business representatives than club operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2167	First, I am pleased with a good debate and that so many have been involved. I interpret the debate in such a way that most people here want to be involved in raising this industry in the future. I would also like to remind you that it will contribute to the green shift. I do not share the view of the representative of Fylkesnes that this is not also an important future industry for Norway. As the representative Helga Pedersen pointed out, Norway must also take its share of the responsibility for the environment. The world will need these resources in the future. To Trellevik, I just want to say that the reference I referred to and the point of view in relation to Fraser's statistics is an expression of the industry itself with concerns. I also think we should take on board that we are doing actions that can help and promote this important industry in the future. Therefore, it becomes interesting to follow this further when we all – at least the government parties and the cooperation parties and we – agree that this industry is important. In this way, the instruments will be based on what will be put into the budgets in the future. I am also pleased that the Minister says that she should continue to follow the strategy put forward by the government of Stoltenberg. This is also the case – I have not mentioned this – that the residue is one thing that we should bear in mind further, also in relation to Norwegian natural stone, on which the representative Else-May Botten was involved. I also want to remind you that mineral nutrition is something far more than just mining. The need we see for new infrastructure will be enormous in the future. With this, I thank you for the debate and look forward to following up this important industry further on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2184	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. This is an important topic, and on the way, I feel that there is a great deal of agreement between the interpellant party and the government on the importance and potential of this industry. Just a few things that have been said in the debate. As regards the relationship of the Sameting with the Mineral Act, it is the case that the Mineral Act has been adopted by the Stortinget. It's the Stortinge that adopts laws, but they do it here after consulting the Sametinge. This government has proposed a 1 million increase in the core allocation of the Sameting. kr now in the RNB. These include: in order for the Sameting to be able to take care of its interests in specific matters. The representative Pedersen asked questions about the implementation of this government. I think that falls on its own unfairness. We have made a decision in the Engebo case. As far as Nussir is concerned, it is being treated in the Environment Directorate, and I cannot, of course, comment on the day and time of a decision there. They take it when they are ready, and when they think they have the necessary basis for making a decision. But a decision is coming. The representative of Elvesuen says something that's important, and we have to be honest, and that's that mineral drift has consequences, and that's what we have to be careful about. Therefore, these are demanding decisions. We're going to make knowledge-based decisions, but mineral nutrition and a lot of industry have consequences. We can't put that under a chair. In the case of landfill, we don't necessarily agree on that point. It's discussed. Norway has a long experience in maritime landfills. We believe that we have made a thorough decision on this point. In the case of subsequent clean-up, the Mineral Act allows the Directorate for Mineral Management to require the safety of establishments for, among others. cleaning-up afterwards. There's a problem the directorate has to follow up. I understand that we agree on the potential of the industry. I understand that we agree that there is a need for simplifications and improvements in the planning legislation. It's working on it. It's done a lot, but we're still working on this. Then we still need mapping, and so it continues in about the same form as under the previous government. We need skills. And as for the procurement rules, which were taken up by the representative Botten, we are now working on implementing simplifications. It's my goal that we do that, so that we can get more innovative purchases on behalf of the public, because we need that. To the representative of Fylkesnes, it is such that I duly commented on the prices of minerals. They are significantly lower now than two years ago. On the other hand, they are significantly higher than they were ten years ago. And that's how the world still needs minerals. So we think it's a potential, but we're very honest that price developments have been worrying about parts of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2203	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2219	This theme may not be the first thing I thought I'd bring up in Stortinget. Green data centres have in some ways been a concept that has been a little unknown to many, but which, fortunately, has become a lot of attention around. For what are these data centers, and what's the point? The point is that in the technological world we live in, a world of dolls with data that we need to store, the data is sent up in a cloud, but they also need to be stored physically somewhere. The data centres shall then be there to store the data. I write in my interpolation text that the world's data sets double every two years, and I've become aware that they do not just double every two years, but they double every 18 months. Probably there's a growth that's just going to grow further. It is also said that the energy needed to store the data will generate more CO2 emissions within five years than the world's total air traffic. The point is that there is an enormous need for data centers, and it is a growing industry. In Norway, the development of renewable energy has been ensured through good and desirable policies. The different scenarios show that there will be a surplus of power, perhaps over 20 TWh in 2020. My commitment to this policy that is wild has been that we should put the force into action. The electricity certificate market, which has been underpinned by a unanimous Storting, is underpinning the development of renewable energy by Norwegian consumers. The point has been that it will replace fossil energy, provide the green transition and help create green jobs. That is why I believe that the growing industry — which will be able to take effect and which will solve some of the CO2 emissions that could occur in other countries if it is not established on a green basis — can ensure that those data centres can be established in Norway. Facebook, which is established in Sweden, has 50 MW. They plan to increase to 100 MW. It is also said that larger data centres are expected to be as large as 300–500 MW. Just to put it in perspective: 100 MW will correspond to almost 1 TWh, i.e. an enormous power demand. It suggests that if one succeeds in any of these establishments, one could also use much of the power surplus. One also sees that the big ones, such as Apple, Box, Facebook, Google, Rackspace etc., want 100 pst. renewable energy, precisely because consumers demand it to be green. That is why they point to markets where they can have green power, and Norway is in the middle of it. The value creation can be huge. BCG's report of June 2014, which I refer to in the text, shows that Facebook's establishment in Luleå, Sweden, can contribute to 9 billion. kr over 10 years for the Swedish state. It will be approx. 260 jobs, and half of them will need more than three years of education. There will also be 300 jobs in construction periods. Apple's investment in Denmark and Ireland is about 14.6 B.C.E. NOK 9 billion. NOK only in Denmark. I thought I would read a quote from Jyllandsposten. They write – after it became known that Apple chose Denmark – the following: “The choice of Denmark and Viborg is due, among other things, to Apple’s desire for the Centre to rely 100 percent on renewable energy.” – It’s well renewable energy. And on the other hand, ‘The details of the source of renewable energy are not published, but refer to wind power, hydropower and biomass. Therefore, the centre has also been placed close to the Tjele transformer station, where energy from Norway is converted and born into the Danish electricity grid. In addition to a stable supply, it would be possible to draw both hydropower from Norway and wind power from the marine mill farms in the West Sea." It is thus Norwegian, pure energy – hydropower – that will contribute to billions of investments, value creation, in Denmark. We have clean power and enough of it, and we have good security of supply. We have a stable society economically and politically. Data may be stored safely in Norway for customers who are aware of privacy issues. We have a cool climate that makes sure you have a smaller power demand, we have a high level of competence, etc. Norway is well suited, one can choose Norway. Despite good advantage, we have not yet succeeded in locating. However, it is said that at least 60 and perhaps 200 new large data centres will come to Europe by 2020, so there are still good opportunities. That is why, in my text today, I have set out three important prerequisites for our success. The first is a reduced electricity charge. Last October, I promoted a representative proposal to reduce the electricity charge for data centres over 5 MW. It is built on a proposal that is similar to our neighbouring countries. It ended with a joint proposal from the cooperation parties in the state budget, and now in revised news: The government announced that the electricity tax would be reduced from 2016. It's important that this came. It is important for the investments that are being discussed now, it is important that a good decision be taken, and that it be put in place from 1 January 2016, because Denmark has reduced the electricity charge, Finland has decided, and Sweden has it for treatment. The point is that data centres are a powerful industry, and had designed the legislation today, they would have naturally been in the category that has reduced the rate. I know this point is on the Minister of Finance's table, but I would like to stress that the Minister of Industry must be on the heel, because the reduction in the electricity charge is absolutely essential for us to succeed in establishing in Norway. Lost proceeds, with which the Ministry of Finance often frightens, play a lesser role when the option is that Norwegian power goes straight to the rest of the world without rents and creates values there. Fortunately, the signals are very good, but it is at least important that the Minister of Industry makes a good decision. My second point is fiber. It goes without saying that if we're going to be able to store the data, they have to be transported here. That's why we need a good fibre net and good fibre capacity. This is also important in the context of data security and privacy. It's the infrastructure of the future. We are quite vulnerable, for approx. 85 pst. traffic passes through Sweden. In other words, we could actually have had an independent debate today on fibre capacity, based on arguments that have nothing to do with green data centres, that we want to establish them in Norway. Based on that, we could have concluded with weighty arguments that we should have greater fibre deployment. You can look at Finland, they do it on a large scale to avoid being so vulnerable and dependent on Sweden. In addition, when adding the argument that we can provide a basis for large data centres, we should all work hard to succeed in developing more fibre capacity. Right now, the struggle is that Statnett adds fiber cable to Germany, and they have been given a concession on the power cable without any fiber added. This is where the Minister of Economic Affairs has to go. I am aware that it flows well into the domain of two other state councils, but Statnett reconsiders the matter, and we need to stress how important it is politically that it is done, because when it will pay off for society, it should be done. When we know what the future brings, with a greater need for digital infrastructure, we should meet them in the right way, namely by investing. ICT Norway estimates that the cable will cost approx. 1 pst. of the sum of the power cable project and the investment we should take. My third point is offensive national marketing. We can't wait for someone to come. We may be good at helping Norwegian companies out abroad to make sure they can compete, but the question is whether we've been equally good at doing the same thing and getting foreign residents to Norway. According to Bellona, Invest in Sweden has 35 employees, Invest in Norway has just announced that it will go up from one to two. This is definitely the business minister's responsibility, and I want to read something that the ICT-Norway Secretary-General writes: ‘The Swedish authorities, on the other hand, set up – the management of Facebook met Sweden’s Prime Minister, Finance Minister, etc. We can't hear that the next time. The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Government must get on the road so that we are attractive in the establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2274	Thanks for the interpellation. Let me start by stating that the government will facilitate the establishment of green data centres in Norway. It is such that large data centres need cooling and a lot of electricity, and I have noticed that operators with a great need for electronic data storage are talking about Norwegian fjord-cooled and fossil-powered halls as they are. Stable basic conditions — both literal and political — facilitate such establishments in Norway. The starting point for industrial policy is to contribute to the greatest possible overall value creation in Norway. We do this through stable framework conditions and by facilitating migration and innovation. In this context, tax policy is essential, and on the issue we are now discussing, the electricity charge is very central. Several arguments for a lower electricity charge for data centres. It is my opinion that the establishment of data centres can make a positive contribution to value creation, but at the same time we need to have a realistic view of the value creation potential. There are not necessarily as many jobs or research tasks associated with such establishments. But in any case, it can be reasonable to facilitate the domestic use of our power rather than being exported as a commodity if this results in maximum value creation and not least less energy loss. The climate threat is a strong argument for migration into the Norwegian economy, and the concept of green data centres means that the energy used should be renewable. From a global climate point of view, there may be good reasons to place such facilities in locations where they can operate as efficiently as possible and with the least possible use of energy resources. And because of our climate and the basic conditions here, it makes sense to stimulate the establishment of data centres in Norway. The representative, Ropstad, has mentioned three important elements for the establishment of data centres in Norway: electricity tax, fibre and marketing. The power costs, as I understand it, amount to about 50 pst. of the operational costs of data centres. Therefore, operators are naturally concerned with the total power price they face when selecting location. With a common Nordic power market, the level of basic prices is being harmonised. Differences in charges, on the other hand, give rise to different prices between markets. In Norway, the overall electricity tax rate today is 13,65 øre per kWh. Some industries, typically the power-intensive industry, are exempt, while what is referred to as other industries pays a reduced rate of 0.45 hr per kWh. Here we know that there are differences between the Nordic countries. The issue of a reduced electricity charge is therefore central to the debate. In the context of the revised national budget, the government announced that we would propose changes to the electricity tax in the 2016 state budget, so that large data centres pay a reduced rate. This is followed up by the Storting's request decisions from the budgetary review. The government will thus come back to the setting of the reduced rate limit, taking into account the size of the data centres. In this context, there is also a need for clarifications of EEA law under the State aid legislation. Interpellant also notes that it is important to establish new fibre cables directly to the United Kingdom and Germany. Decisions on such investments are a complex process. Norway shall have stable ICT infrastructure and sufficient capacity also for future large-scale data centres. The starting point for this type of investment is that there must be a commercial need to justify them. The issue of fibre cables has been updated because Statnett is planning to add power cables to the UK and Germany. In that case, it may be reasonable to place fibre cables at the same time, so that investment and operating costs can be divided into several. It is the case that the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Oil and Energy have taken a coordinating responsibility, and there are now discussions about moving forward with such a solution. Then I can assure you that I am following the discussion and not least the conclusion attached to that debate. The interpellant calls for offensive national marketing. Realising establishments requires efforts from local and national authorities and from private actors. The ICT-Norway Industry Organisation is already doing an important job. At national level, we have launched the relatively new Invest in Norway function — a cooperation between Innovation Norway, the Research Council and SIVA. Invest in Norway has a comprehensive network and markets and offers services to, among others. foreign actors considering the establishment of green data centres in Norway. Innovation Norway represents Invest in Norway in 35 countries. The participation of SIVA in cooperation underlines that industrial development in this area is often dependent on concrete property projects. I record that Invest in Norway provides clear and good information on what opportunities Norway can offer when setting up green data centres. Norway has a number of qualities that make it attractive to set up green data centres. Through the government's decision to propose a reduced electricity tax for such centres from 2016 we have taken an important step in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2302	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I am pleased that she chose to go into the three points that I believe are very central if you are to succeed in getting established in Norway. And the signals that go on the electricity charge, to start with it, are good – the fact that one clearly says that large data centres have to pay a reduced rate. Then you have a discussion now on where the boundary is going. There'll be my impression that I think the important thing is to look at what's going to happen quickly in the EU, and as I suggested in my post instead, we'll see to the neighbouring countries what they've got approved, and what's probably going to be a fast and dangerous road. Nor is there any doubt that there are investors standing on the stairs who, according to what the Council of State says, compare the significant cost of power and are likely to choose the countries that are the cheapest, of course. In the case of fibre, I am pleased that the Council of State will follow closely – the German cable and also that coming to the United Kingdom. But there it's also important to emphasize, or at least to repeat, that one thing is the data center arguments, but I also think it's important to put in the other arguments. I am aware that there should initially be commercial purposes on the basis of whether it can be used. But there are also investors, for example. Energy as one actor, who together with others has said that if technically possible, if it is possible to expand it, they can take the cost of expanding capacity and then a private payment can be made. I also encourage the Council of State to at least include it in these assessments. My question to the Council of State is really linked to the strategy – what she thinks to contribute offensively. I started on a quote from the Secretary-General of ICT Norway, where he suggested that when Sweden got Facebook in its time, it was the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry, etc. active on the road and sold Sweden and the land they had prepared, where all the criteria were met. In Norway, we may have a more relaxed strategy where we can say that we have a lot of plots, etc., instead of getting ready and saying that this is what can work best for you. I was at Invest in Norway, which I agree with the Council of State is a good tool. But in comparison, according to Bellona, Sweden’s Invest in Sweden has 17–18 times more employees compared to Norway’s Invest in Norway. I think there's some of the challenge going on. I would like to challenge the Council of State on what the offensive strategy beyond these things will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2317	I feel that I have received good advice on the way further related to debates and the conclusions the government is going to draw. Of course, I participate in them, even though some of them are in the Ministry of Finance, others between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Transport. With regard to the value creation potential and not least the number of employees, there are a little different debates, and that's what I tried to be a little bit open on. The representative suggested 4,500 jobs, as far as I know. What we have been told by the Swedish authorities is that when Facebook is done with its three centres, 260 employees are expected. So the numbers are probably a little bit fuzzy here. The point, however, is that we are positive to such establishments. We use Invest in Norway. For us, it's a start-up that it's important to have confidence in doing a job. But it's also like me and the rest of the government, and the prime minister, meet markets, and we meet business every week. Of course, we are in favour if it should be relevant in a given situation. We're open to it, but we're using our Invest in Norway as our new tool in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2326	A new type of power-intensive industry has emerged. Traditionally, power-intensive jobs have been linked to metal production — at least in Norway. A new type of activity is under development and data storage has become a new industry that needs enormous amounts of energy. As the interpellant pointed out, we have created a surplus market in Norway for renewable energy, and there is a desire for a green transition. Then it becomes important that we, as a nation, use our renewable energy to create values in Norway, and not just to export electrons. In the case of the green data centres, as a nation, we have some advantage as the industry is asking for: We have abundant and stable access to renewable energy. The government is facilitating the construction of new transmission lines across the country. It has to be invested in networks for nearly 100 billion. kr for the next 10 years. Stable transmission systems and good capacity across the country are important. We have good opportunities to place data storage facilities in mountains with good and natural cooling capabilities and not least with good security. We have good opportunities for re-use of energy for heating purposes if we put these facilities in the right place. We can offer stable political conditions and framework conditions. We also have data transmission capacity both domestically and abroad. The need for data storage is great, and many new businesses will be needed in the coming years. It is important that we try to attract this industry to Norway. As of today, companies like this are established in the whole of the Nordic region. As I said, Apple has chosen Denmark, and in Sweden it is Facebook that has established large data centres. This has given our neighbouring countries a not insignificant number of new jobs. There is great value creation both for construction and for operating the facilities, but it is not least important that we have a new business with new skills jobs that the industry itself takes with us and that can create new jobs in the future. It's also important to bring it with you. It is therefore gratifying that the government of the revised national budget announces that it will impose a lower electricity charge on large data facilities in 2016. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, is in dialogue with ESA in order to clarify this with State aid, whether there is a room for action on tax relief within the ESA Regulation. In addition, two new power cables shall be built for Germany and England respectively. In this context, it will be considered whether it is possible to facilitate fibre cables in this development as well. I think we should be aware that this is a demanding field, and many conditions need to be clarified. However, it is such – as has been mentioned – that discussions have been held between the various departments and the State network to see if this is possible within the given concessions and not least within the decisions taken in this matter. It is good to look for opportunities when it first needs to be built. We have created a surplus market for renewable energy. We have all the prerequisites for developing and producing goods and services worldwide demand, in the most sustainable way possible. It will be exciting to see whether data storage becomes a power-intensive industry in Norway as well. At least the government is on a good path to creating good framework conditions to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2363	I just want to take this opportunity to thank the representative for raising an extremely important issue, which is fully supported by the Labour Party. The points on which the representative here was involved, and the points that were also made by the representative Odd Henriksen, are the views that we fully share, so I'm not going to spend time repeating them. But it is clear that Norway has many advantages that allow, as the representatives have been involved, to do so. I just want to spend some time on fiber cable and fibre capacity. We're familiar with these cables that are now being built, and it would be amazing if we were to add a cable, that we were not going to use in the same trench or in the same cable the opportunity to put this fiber that's going to connect Europe. I just want to announce that at our national meeting we have adopted this with a reduced electricity charge, and we have even said that in the case of the fibre cable to Germany, the state alone or together with private actors must finance this. Time is now running in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2370	I'm starting by saying that maybe it wasn't this theme that I thought I should be on the pulpit to have interpellation about. So far, I think the participation says a little about it, because I still think political Norway has not fully woken up, although I fully agree with the representative Henriksen now that a lot has been done lately. I believe that in the future it is absolutely essential that we do even more, that the changes announced by the Council of State are implemented – which has been announced in the revision – and that we become even more offensive. As for the number of jobs, there's no doubt that there's disagreement, because I think I referred to BCG instead of the Boston Consulting Group report from June 2014. In it one saw that for Sweden it was 4,500 jobs in a ten-year perspective, so I think it's right that 260 is per year – and 300 also in the construction phase – so it's not sure it's that unreasonable. But if you're thinking about e.g. Apple's establishment in Denmark, with an investment of 9 billion. kr, or during the ten-year period described in Sweden, perhaps also with a value of 9 billion. kr, and one that succeeds with ten types of data centers, we're talking about a huge value creation. These are jobs that do not need to be located in the central eastern region – they can be located in North Norway, they can be located in Sogn and fjords if there is good access to power, they can be located in the south, etc. If we look into the glass sphere, there's no doubt that there's going to be a need for more data storage. Norway is a very well-suited country, but we have a little to go on before we are competitive enough. Therefore, at least today’s interpellation is important in order to underline that responsibility has to be taken. I wondered if I should address it to the Minister of Industry, whether I should address it to the Minister of Finance, who is in charge of the electricity charge, whether I should address it to the Minister of Oil and Energy, who is dealing with the surplus of power, or whether I should address it to the Minister of Transport, who is responsible for it with fiber and infrastructure and has been a great deal in front of it. But I chose the Minister of Industry because this is a green transition. It is an industry that is growing enormously globally, and for which we have a good basis for it to grow in Norway as well. But then we need to have a level playing field and be competitive compared to our neighbouring countries. That's where we're going. I also believe that this debate – I would like to thank those who took part, also from the Labour Party – clearly signals that this is the direction we want, and then together we can manage to take it up, so that we are not only competitive, but that we are on the verge, that we are out and lure them to Norway, so that the big ones choose to establish their data centres in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2381	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. This is an important question, and I perceive a big and completely cross-political consensus – that's not why someone outside the house is demonstrating today, at least it's not about green data centers. So here we go. We have announced that we will come back with what fees we will give, and for what size we are working on the issue of fibre. But here I must say that that was perhaps the only point where I was a certain disagreement. Our starting point is that this type of investment must be able to defend itself commercially, and that is what we basically stand by. Then there are two other state councils who are also going to take part in that debate. With regard to the value creation potential and the possibilities for the number of employees, I think it might be quite right that what we have been given in terms of employment in Sweden is what has now come, and then it probably has a greater potential in the long term. We're in transition -- unlike anyone thinks, it's not a word the government has invented. So there's a situation this nation is in. We need more legs to stand on, and we have some natural advantage, and we should use them, and we should do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2390	Then there's case no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2402	On the basis of the second sentence of the second sentence of Paragraph 22 of the Second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture has requested a debate on the conditions of freedom of the press in Norway. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will also draw attention to the inclusion in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting of a provision on speaking time for such debates by allowing one representative of each party access to an unlimited number of posts. These speakers have been notified to the President in advance. Members of the government participating in the debate will also have access to an unlimited number of posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2413	The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly adopted in January an opinion expressing concerns about freedom of the press in Europe and its neighbourhoods. Both individuals, journalists, editors, media houses and organisations experience threats and violence. The terrible attack on Charlie Hebdo was a waker for all of us and an attack on all of us. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are cornerstones of democracy. So if fear and self-sensorship take over the freedom to criticize and investigate, democracy is weakened. The freedom and security of journalists are our freedom and security. An open and trust-based society requires that we trust that journalism is free, independent and objective. We experience a great paradox — on the one hand, a journalistic golden age and, on the other hand, physical attacks, financial challenges, increased media ownership concentration, commercial pressure and political pressure to get rid of serious journalists, who in total put pressure on journalism. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of freedom of the press. That's good, and it commits. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution states: «It is for the authorities of the State to facilitate an open and informed public conversation.» We must guarantee freedom of the press and freedom of expression and counteract what we see from unfortunate developments. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are threatened in a number of ways: fear of reactions from extreme groups or from organised criminal environments, multiple threats to journalists and editors, pressure on the protection of sources by increased possibilities for police to control and monitor communications, information regulations in the public sector imposing restrictions on employees, and the pulverisation of traditional media funding models. Good and effective protection must be provided for those who avail themselves of freedom of expression. Acceptance of threats and violence must be rejected. The threats to source protection must also be taken seriously. Only the certainty that someone can look for contacts and movements between journalists and their anonymous sources could be enough for the source to be more restrained in providing information. This way important social information can be lost and the democratic role of society in the press can be undermined. The SKUP conference of the year revealed that many people experience significant difficulties in accessing public information. It's disappointing. Lack of mailing lists and long waiting for enquiries are just some examples of how actors who manage the values and trust of the community are countering transparency. In addition, it is often felt that employees are being given a mouth-to-mouth approach to the media. This also applies to elected representatives. Stavanger Aftenblad's survey last year showed that 106 out of 140 municipalities have illegal information regulations for their local government. The public sector should, of course, take the lead as a good example in protecting freedom of expression and ensuring transparency. It is therefore appropriate to initiate the review of rules and guidelines by all public institutions and bodies. We have noted the input made during the Committee's seminar, the need for enhanced source protection and alert protection, the assessment of a specific protection for journalists and a media responsibility law that can clean up and bring together all co-legislative legal provisions. However, financial framework conditions are also essential to ensure freedom of the press, quality journalism and diversity. We have many debates on this in this Chamber. But my wish is that, across the party boundaries and the trade unions, we can deal with such matters not only as purely economic, financial or cultural issues, but by looking at media policy as a necessary part of and prerequisite for our democracy. Then we would more closely follow the obligations of the Basic Law § 100.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2440	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Grande, who was the one who picked up the international initiatives for debate on freedom of the press, and proposed to the Committee that this be appropriate for an own-initiative debate with us. It was not difficult to get in touch with. The freedom of the press has been, and is, an important principle, of which I perceive that everyone in this room is a follower. It may well be that we sometimes disagree, or at least consider, how the freedom of the press is used in mentioning good colleagues, but that is another matter. I think all the speakers in this debate will stress that freedom of the press is important and that we want it. Yes, let me also make it clear. The very concept, i.e. ‘freedom of the press’, may well face challenges, even falling, as a physical press is obviously less and less essential for journalists to carry out and disseminate their work. journalistic freedom is therefore crucial. I would like to begin by stating that, in my opinion, journalistic freedom is well maintained in Norway. However, there is no concealment that the enormous changes that are taking place in the publishing universe today challenge the subject in several areas. One of the major challenges is that sometimes it has become difficult for citizens to distinguish between journalistic work and the many forms of communication open to the digital platforms. What would previously have been communicated as a reading guide in a paper newspaper is now freely distributed as a blog or post through other offers, without clarifying the background or reviewing editorial evaluation at all. This in itself is not a challenge to journalistic freedom, but it causes many to interfere uncritically with freedom of expression with journalistic freedom. If we lose the perspective that journalistic work has a different value from the opinions we all have to make anywhere, it could at least be a threat to respect for journalistic work – respect that gives freedom and security to challenge. Of course, this is an important part of the exercise of journalistic freedom. What, then, could threaten this freedom today? Some might think that getting, but large media houses, operating across large parts of the country, will be such a threat, and this coincides with what some people in general point to, that reduced diversity is a threat. Reduced diversity and monopolistic actors would, of course, reduce freedom, but I can't see that this is becoming the case in Norway today. Although many are challenged by the transition to new platforms, it is only reasonable to conclude that there have never been as many opportunities as there are today to reach many with their work, no matter what area the journalism represents. Distribution, and further distribution, has become easy and challenges journalists more about whether the article is written for the group it finally hits than on the freedom to write about what they want. I also do not see Grande's initiative as a result of the lack of freedom, but as an important debate to remind us of maintaining freedom. Nevertheless, we cannot fail to think that Norwegian journalists refer to conflicts and incidents from other countries. They operate with great courage, and often with life as an effort. Nor can we fail to mention the international presence of press groups who, through threats, violence and killings, try to prevent journalists from working. I am glad that the people themselves have stood up against these groups in many countries, and know that this is also the case here in the country. Media policy is challenging at the moment, and this debate must be a reminder to the government and to the magnificence that, in the organisation of journalistic work on all platforms, we must not take action that restricts freedom. We must maintain frameworks and grant schemes that do not favour anyone on the basis of meaning or editorial angles. We must take that responsibility seriously. I look forward to the further debate and hope for many clear speeches in defence of the freedom of the press – journalistic freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2457	So far, 25 journalists around the world have been killed while at work, and 157 journalists are imprisoned. Last year, 69 journalists were killed. By today, I met a Charlie Hebdo writer who lives with killing threats every day. I think there is reason to recall this when we are going to discuss freedom of the press – not to trivialise a discussion about the state of freedom of the press in Norway, but to stress the seriousness. In many countries, people are actually risking their lives to fend for freedom of the press. It shows how valuable it is, and it shows the importance that we take care of it and make sure that it is not eroded. Our national reality is quite different. Norway is on top 3 of the World Press Freedom Index, carried out by Reporters Without Borders. The degree of freedom of the press is also felt to be great. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution, as mentioned above, protects the right to express oneself freely. Yes, the state is even required to ‘facilitate an open and informed public conversation’, as it is called in the Constitution. Free media and the right to speak through the written word, I believe that is essential for any democracy. The state has a responsibility to facilitate this. Therefore, it is good that the media industry has received schemes that help make them viable. In many areas, the arrangements have been successful, but there are elements in the development that require us to also be on guard, even as there is reason to call an alarm. The development of the media industry is alarming, and it is going very fast. Competition from foreign media is increasing, reading habits are changing, and the media are losing revenue. We use the web more and read less on paper. Norwegian media are at the top of the world when it comes to using new technologies. At the same time, the same technology has made international companies, such as Google and Facebook, take advertising revenue on the Norwegian market without having self-produced content. The entire 3⁄4 of the digital advertising market in Norway goes to such actors. Paper mills and magazines are now experiencing a sharp fall in advertising revenue without compensating for digital advertising revenue. And the consequences of bad economics are cuts, which in turn can also affect journalism. My concern is that this is particularly affecting gravitational and critical journalism. I therefore believe that in a debate on freedom of the press in Norway we cannot escape asking questions about whether the framework conditions are good enough, whether they are up-to-date, or whether we need to introduce new arrangements. At least we have to make sure that our regulation does not help to reinforce the negative trends. Good framework conditions are also about freedom of the press. The press support has been a lot of discussion around, but it is important. It was established in 1969 and has been a central tool for maintaining a versatile and decentralised press in Norway. The five newspapers The Magazine, the Newspaper, the Class struggle, the Nations and Our Country are categorised as nationwide, meaningful newspapers and extra subsidies. For the Christian People's Party, maintaining press support is an important issue in maintaining media pluralism and freedom of the press in Norway. I would say that cut in the framework conditions is cut in the opinions. I believe that we also need these voices in the Norwegian debate. We cannot take our freedom of the press as a matter of course. We must always be careful not to weaken it – until it is too valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2476	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank this initiative for an interesting debate. It's a little bit out of the way we usually have debates, but it's also an opportunity to go a little bit wider on a topic. Freedom of the press is an important theme. As many people have already mentioned, it's a rather diverse theme. It is easy to see Norwegian freedom of the press in connection with freedom of the press internationally, and then one must say that we have it relatively well, that the press in Norway is relatively good. The way freedom of the press is challenged in other countries is an image that we are far from in Norway. Nevertheless, the debate on freedom of the press in Norway is also very important; it may be the freedom of the press in relation to public administration and public authorities. It is often set up as a small contrast, the contrast between the freedom of the press and the state as authority. It may also be a topic related to the media's own organisation and conversion. There has also been a theme in the last 15 years in relation to the Constitution and the Constitution § 100 on freedom of expression. A case-law has gradually been established that has clarified some of the most difficult issues through a number of cases decided both in the Supreme Court and also by the European Court of Human Rights. With regard to freedom of the press related to media migration, we must recognise that the media has been through a revolution in a few years. It is not that mergers themselves threaten freedom of the press, but it is clear that a situation where there is much tougher working conditions for media houses than before creates a pressure on conversion and results that can also go beyond the possibility of good journalism, and thus also affect freedom of the press. In this context, I think it is important both what the Right Spokesman spoke about in maintaining grants and schemes that can help ensure the possibility of good journalism, and what the Christian People's Party representative had to say about the role of nationwide, meaningful newspapers in precisely ensuring diversity. So when we talk about freedom of the press, we often think about freedom of the press related to public authorities and government. The results published at the SKUP conference in a short time show that 40 out of 63 reports submitted to the public describe in part significant problems in accessing public documents and sources at ministerial and government level, and also describe a systematic training of transparency and complaints. It's a problem that we all have a responsibility to take seriously. When state councils require all questions to be addressed by e-mail, and when the daily newspaper waited eight months for a direct interview with a government council, it is clear that there are issues that all parties must take seriously, that one does not necessarily make the press's work easier, simpler and freer by the way public administration deals with some of the matters with which you are faced. Then I must also say that in the light of the debate that is taking place today, I find it difficult to understand that during the next few weeks a proposal will considerably tighten the Public Service Act, which will allow the City Council and the Parliamentary Council to exempt case lists and case-preparing documents from the public. It seems the Center Party is very hard to understand. We believe that there is a narrowing of the disclosure law and a narrowing of the freedom of the press. The issues covered by the proposed document 8 were assessed when the Public Health Act was amended in 2009 and when such a proposal, which is now being dealt with urgently in the Stortinget, is being put into effect at the same time as an evaluation of the changes in the Public Health Act, I have to say that I think it is quite hairy. I believe that it obliges the parties that intend to support this proposal to explain why they want to use parliamentary governance in municipalities and counties to organise themselves away from a fundamental openness that must lie in local democracy. The centre party is not going to be involved in this, and we believe that such a proposal cannot be dealt with and adopted in our own time, but that it deserves thorough treatment through hearings and a bill that a government could possibly contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2491	First of all, I would like to thank the initiative for having a debate on freedom of the press in Norway. I think it's special to have it today, when the Oslo Freedom Forum is running right in the vicinity, and they just in advance of our having this debate, have had a session that goes on the right to insult – the right to offer – among others. with drawing from Charlie Hebdo, but also with others who describe their everyday life, and the external pressure to which they are subjected. There are two main issues. One is the outer pressure, which you might especially be subjected to as a drawing if you go over some fixed lines for some people. It is important to stress the absoluteness of freedom of expression – that you have the right to express yourself. And also drawing is going to be right, of course, within the limits that you put yourself for quality and relevance. But then there is what is more Norwegian, which is a problem that several have raised earlier, which is the economic pressure to which the Norwegian press is exposed, i.e.How to maintain a quality journalism within a more difficult economic framework and with emerging media? Then it is important with the framework conditions that we can give by having a press support, that we can get zero VAT also on the Internet media, that we have introduced the editorial poster into the law – that something fundamental lies there. When this debate comes up, I think there are things you have to reflect on, and then I also look at my own situation. Here in Oslo, I made choices in 2003 and 2007. Then there was a localist in every part of the city and a lively debate about every construction thing that went on the city council in Oslo. Today there is no common arena where you discuss the urban governance issues in Oslo that have to be followed as closely as you did at the time. I think that's something you have to reflect on. And there are also other areas: the oil and gas industry is completely dominant in Norway and Norwegian economic development and in Norwegian social development. Then you have to consider: How many oil journalists do we have in the Norwegian media picture? They are in SYSLA, they are in Stavanger Aftenblad – but are there many enough people who follow this closely? At the same time, I think you should put a question mark when we go into, among other things. foreign operations. We had years of experience in Afghanistan. What demands were made on journalists to follow the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan? And was it also the next time you made critical reports when you participated in the operations that were carried out? I think it is important to question this. Then, as many people have been involved, we have to work all the time to ensure that there is enough transparency in the public sector. Something was said here about municipalities. I think we always have to make sure that you actually follow the disclosure law. But then there is a separate debate on the framework of the urban council system, which I agree must be evaluated. I also agree with Marit Arnstad that the matter that now lies, because of the debate it has led to, must be forwarded to the government in order to obtain the necessary proceedings if they wish to proceed with it. But not least, what openness do we have in the departments? Do you have the necessary transparency in the departments and public Norway? Or is it that you better cover up the fact that the internal procedure is more important than what you publish? We have some good examples of the need for newspapers: BT with its discovery – also important for the Left – of what actually happened to asylum seekers, the newspaper's work on the sale of the Defence boats to Nigeria, important issues that show the importance of digging journalism. Finally, I would also like to mention the warnings and whether we have the necessary framework conditions for those who are alerts, both because it is a monitoring, and that IP addresses become more and more known. Has the alerts got worse in recent years? And is this something that you want to pay particular attention to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2512	Let me first thank the initiator of this debate. There is an interesting debate to travel, and there is no doubt that we are all engaged in having a free, independent press in Norway. A recent report by the American organization Freedom House reviewed and evaluated 197 countries in 2014 and concluded that there was full freedom of the press in 63 countries. It is then a pleasure that Norway is one of the top three — between the Netherlands and Sweden. It's about journalists who can work safely, it's about the editor who shouldn't be censored – because that's what happens in other countries, which isn't at the top of that list. I'm glad that in the government parties we are actually focusing on and looking at power structures, too, because it may be a dilemma if the power relationship gets too distorted and the interests are to affect the decisions. There is no doubt not only about journalistic freedom or freedom of the editor, but also about the freedom of the press, which many people have been involved in here – the right and the ability to press and not get hit. We are totally dependent on having an independent press, and in order to be able to have it in the future, we are totally dependent on modern platform neutrality arrangements and prevent discrimination between paper and networks. It's a whole new everyday life we have to take over. That's why we want to facilitate that we don't have to discriminate between paper and nets, and hope that we get it approved in ESA. It's a media diversity. You're talking about paper newspapers that go down in numbers, that go away, but there's also more new ones coming online. It has been mentioned how important the press support is in this. Yes, it may be important, but I would also like to remind you that it has not been said that it is necessary in order to have a free press. In the committee we were so lucky that at a recording meeting in front of the debate we had a visit to a newspaper called Karmøynyt, which started as a free newspaper. It grows, and defined as the newspaper it manages without press support. I am not saying that it is necessarily the most important thing, it could also be start-up support. I believe that good journalism is not about how much money you get, but what you get out of them, and how to put it up. Anyway, we're going to appreciate having a free, independent press. I believe that the best thing we can do is take care of ownership, the structure of power, and let no one become too dominant. It's important for the balance sheet. It is important to ensure a media diversity, and this room has a responsibility to ensure that we actually have a diversity of actors. We are to provide the free, independent journalist and editor, the editorial responsibility and, above all, the freedom of printing – we are to suspend it. We will continue to work what we can to keep Norway at the top of a freedom of the press society, but then I believe that the best thing we can do is to facilitate a level playing field for the press, a level playing field for networks and papers, and simply – the Progress Party believes – look at the press support. It's not sure it's the key to getting good or bad journalism. It is the good journalist, the good editor and the good, innovative newspapers, the press that are winning, and we are going to arrest them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2525	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Grande, and not least the committee, for the opportunity to debate the conditions of freedom of the press. In a democracy, it is little more important to debate than the very premise that debate can take place. No matter what opinions are broken against each other today, everyone here agrees that democracy does not work without free and independent media. In the world today, there are more people who lack freedom of expression than they do, and freedom of expression and the press is threatened on more fronts. It suffers from totalitarian regimes and religious doctrines. But freedom of expression is also threatened in free democracies – by abuse, monitoring and control on the one hand, and by threats, violence and persecution on the other. According to reporters without borders, 25 journalists are killed in the world this year. 155 journalists and 177 bloggers and online activists are in prison. At the latest today, journalist in Charlie Hebdo, Zineb el Rhazoui, says in a chronicle in the evening post that she never sleeps in the same place two nights in a row. Cutting a journalist's head off is, of course, worse than scaring him to silence. But the consequences for freedom of expression can be equally serious. The ability of journalists to disseminate information and criticism of power is restricted, and our opportunities to participate in democracy are reduced. Today we have the whole world on our screen. At the same time, freedom of expression and expression are our sensitive to economic activity, whether they be economic, legal or cultural. So we can't talk about freedom of expression in Norway as if we're in a vacuum. We have a global co-responsibility for the condition of freedom of expression. It's a task we never have to put away, and a debate that shouldn't stop. Freedom of expression and the press in Norway is very strong. We live in one of the freest corners in the world. Nevertheless, there are several factors that may weaken the capacity for expression and media pluralism in Norway. The authorities shall facilitate an open and informed public conversation. Then we can't just work legally and in principle. State media policy instruments must also allow for technological progress. The government has said that we should modernise the instruments and ensure that the media are treated equally – regardless of the technological platform. The distinction between paper newspapers and electronic media has hindered the innovation of digital services and payment models. That is why we made the production grant neutral. However, if media support as a whole is to function properly and promote the dissemination of news and social debate, we must also do something about the VAT regime. The plans for platform neutral low VAT were on my desk when I joined. They had been lying there for years, but they had not been done with anything. I am very pleased that the government is now notifying ESA of this platform-neutral VAT exemption. The scheme will cover all news and timeliness services, both in the form of text, sound and image. This matter is very important to the government. That's why we have to work hard to get this through in ESA. Another area where major technological progress will soon be made is in the radio medium. The size adopted clear criteria for the closure of the FM network in 2017. These criteria have now been met. Therefore, the government has decided to turn off in 2017. This will benefit both listeners and the radio industry. Digitalisation not only provides clear preparedness benefits and great opportunities for innovation – it also opens up to an even greater diversity of radio channels. A democracy depends on media that can enable us to understand the world. In other words, our freedom depends on the freedom of the media. With these handles, the government has strengthened the prerequisites for this freedom. I am very pleased that there is such broad consensus as to stress the need for precisely protecting these values, which all so far in the debate have expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2551	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2554	Freedom of the press in Norway cannot be discussed without our looking up and seeing the situation in the rest of the world. Here in Norway, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are enshrined in the Constitution, but only one sixth of the world’s population live in countries where the press is categorised in the same division as in Norway. The overall picture is that in many countries there has been a deterioration in recent years. But even here in Norway, freedom of the press is being challenged, both because markets are changing, and because we see a large concentration of ownership. We are served with a broad ownership in Norwegian media. It helps to ensure diversity in news communication and to focus critical views on different social conditions. There is also an important reason to support a decentralised press, journalists who see power and social structures at a distance and with glasses other than those that live closely on central structures. Freedom of the press is challenged by the Internet because attitudes and views are disseminated in new channels and are disseminated in fast-moving. That's good for diversity, but demanding, because the editor's poster and other self-justice in the industry don't like all these new intermediaries. The boundaries between news communication, commenting and advertising are being cleared up. The commentator's role is extended to people who are not subject in any way to legislation or editors or who have to be responsible for PFU. I think that's good reason to discuss how we can meet this. The variety that we want must be linked to the propensity that we know from the traditional media world. Press freedom has a twin, and that's press security," said Kjersti Stavrum for a while back. At a time when more journalists are killed every year, there is reason to dwell on just that. Who takes responsibility for those who are in war zones? More and more of them are freelancers without a permanent connection to an editorial. Who is it that says here, but no longer? Who is asking questions about security when someone is not part of an editorial? We must stand up to threats, no matter who they are directed to, and especially threats to journalists who convey messages that no one likes. Because even if we have freedom of expression in Norway, it should not be confused that threats are allowed. It does not contribute to the freedom of the press we want to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2566	Today, there is a fundamental debate we are taking part in. Actually, I'd rather call it a discussion or a conversation, because, as we hear, today's theme is something that is very much in agreement, not only here, but also far outside the storeroom – fortunately. But the consensus on the freedom of the press is so of course that it can pose a danger, because we know that things we take for granted, we can end up caring a little bit too badly. So I'm glad we're discussing it today because freedom of the press has to be smoked, and we have to make sure it's as natural in the future as it is now. Furthermore, it's important that we also do what we can to make it equal to, of course, everywhere. We in Norway have a good reputation for spreading important democratic values in our international work. The role of freedom of the press in a democracy must be part of the message we bring with us in the work, in areas of the world where this is not as natural – as others have pointed out today – also in areas where freedom of the press is not at all available, but is prohibited. This is not a freedom that is the subject of compromises. Back to our small Norway and the attention given to the conditions of our press, especially in recent times. It's been painted with such a broad brush that the impression has been that we've been on both the economic, the ethical, and the press freedom itself. Fortunately, this is far from reality. Only in today's edition of Today's Business we find four full pages with the following three headings: No. one, ‘Five reasons for not having a media crisis’, no. two: ‘To pay for good content’, point three: ‘The Golden Age of Journalism’ — and it is now being discussed. It's important to bear in mind that it's never been easier to publish and make news. It's the traditional ones, and it's the digital ones. And that also applies to each of us. The digital revolution has made you and I with some simple keystrokes can strip off power in a way you could only dream of before. To look at the boundaries again, it is a global trend that journalism has a golden age precisely because the information is more accessible and easier to distribute. With the smartphone in our hand, we have the newspaper, the lexicon and the channel out in one thing. Each of us can read, we can learn, we can evaluate, and we can communicate it all in seconds. The freedom of the press has, as many have been involved, also an economic aspect. There are few sectors which are as subsidized as the press in Norway: VAT exemption, direct aid, NRK licence, distribution supplements and other aid schemes. We have these to ensure diversity and freedom. Nevertheless, in the future, we need to consider all of these arrangements, which have been far-reachingly unaudited while the outside world has radically changed. Because just as important as the number of billions we distribute to the press in Norway, the way money is distributed into a new digital everyday life. This is a policy area we still have to look up and forward, not look back. The freedom of the press is, as we have arranged, depending on various support schemes. We should, however, be careful that freedom of the press over time does not just become a public task. This would be contrary to the nature of freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2579	According to the agenda, this is a debate on freedom of the press in Norway, but let me still look a little beyond the borders of Norway. Without freedom of the press, no democracy. Without freedom of the press, no one to report violations of human rights. Democracy, human rights and freedom of expression are something we who live in Norway can easily come to terms with as a matter of course. The press release is, for example, empty tonight, with one honourable exception. In large parts of Europe, the situation is unfortunately the opposite of what it is here. It's also a situation that, to the seventh and last, can affect ourselves. As a member of the European Council Delegation of the United Kingdom, it is natural for me to raise this issue, also in a debate primarily on Norwegian issues. As a member of the Council of Europe, we have undertaken certain obligations to contribute to what we can, to promote freedom of expression and the press in all the 47 member countries of the Council of Europe. As late as January this year, the Council of Europe adopted another resolution that took into account the need to protect freedom of the press and journalists in Europe. What is more, those who voted against represented countries such as Turkey, Hungary, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Georgia. The backstop was attacked by Charlie Hebdo, but the resolution was well applicable to so much killing and targeted attacks on journalists in Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Serbia, Turkey and Georgia, and the film producer Oleg Sentsov, who was led from the custody of Simferopol to Moscow, in order to be charged with criminal acts, a well-known trick in several Member States, for example. in Azerbaijan, where journalists and human rights defenders are brought to silence in turn, with manufactured accusations, through months in custody without medical supervision, without contact with the family, if they have failed to flee and seek asylum in another country, such as Malahat Nasibova, who received the Rafto Prize in 2009 for his unfair work on human rights. It had dramatic consequences, first for her three children, then for her and her husband. Now the whole family in Norway is asking us, Norwegian parliamentarians, to continue their struggle through our work in the Council of Europe and the OSCE. Being a journalist is one of the most dangerous professions in existence. For this reason, journalists without borders have set up a web portal where journalists who are threatened can call an alarm. Only the first six weeks 49 alerts were posted. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, has publicly stressed that this will also be an important tool in the Council of Europe's work to ensure compliance with Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights on the Freedom of the Press and the Personal Security of Journalists. It also covers working conditions for Norwegian journalists, although we may not always think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2590	As the previous speaker pointed out, it is a dark backdrop for this debate. Freedom of the press is getting worse in the world, according to the report from Freedom House, which others have also pointed out. It is only a small third of the countries covered by the report, where there is full freedom of the press. Freedom House points to developments in countries such as Egypt, Turkey and Ukraine, but also to efforts by the US authorities to put obstacles in the way of independent journalism on national security issues, as a basis for going the wrong way. We can rejoice that Norway is ranked at the top of the countries with the greatest freedom of the press, together with the Netherlands and Sweden. But let's not take it for granted, it has to be protected. A free and independent press is an important prerequisite for a living democracy and to ensure the basis for an open and informed debate on society – without such a breakup of opinion confounding democracy – but also as a vigil for governments, both those elected and those who try to be elected. A free and independent press shall keep a watchful eye on everyone, as an agent for its readers, viewers and listeners – a place where they can go about power itself, as it is called. Therefore, support for the development of free and independent media is also part of our development policy. Courses, conferences and professional workshops for journalists and editors in cooperation countries shall contribute to the dissemination of knowledge, understanding and attitudes. It is an important part of democracy building in our development policy. It is easy to sing maximum songs about the role and importance of the free press. But freedom also demands responsibility. Not all media houses meet the demand. A press that hunts in herds is not a beautiful sight, even if the hare is not a public authority person. There are some examples like this at home. But all the worse, the scandals we've seen in some other countries, with phone interception, no respect for privacy, paparazzies in the bushes and other things. Gross overtramp triggers reactions. What can we do to re-establish the responsibility of the free press? This would like to launch commissions and proposals, as is the case in our neighbouring European countries. Who's gonna watch the guards? The issue is topical, not just to the state guards of any society but, for security reasons, to the outside. Of course, justice is always at the disposal, but a comprehensive and fundamental freedom of expression at the bottom and in the Constitution often makes borderlines demanding and pointy. In this area too, fortunately, we can give an instruction in the Pressen's Professional Committee in Norway, i.e., let the goat take care of the oat sack. That's how far it's worked. But I draw this up to stress that the free and independent press can only play its important and necessary role if it guards itself not to abuse the power it manages on behalf of its readers, listeners and viewers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2605	At the bottom of the debate, I would like to make a few brief comments, as there are several of the debaters who have mentioned this with new platforms on which we communicate. Without a doubt, new technology has challenged the business models of traditional media. I guess there's no doubt about it. The same technology has also given people more platforms to express themselves on. In addition to editorial media, people can express themselves on Facebook, Twitter, blogs and other types of social media. In other words, the Internet has strengthened the ability of people – but also freedom – to express themselves. It is undoubtedly a strength for democracy. E.g. Twitter has shown us that the distance between people and power has become shorter because it has become easier to enter into dialogue with the authorities. But these possibilities of expression have been given to us both good and bad. Online, the threshold can be lower to spread hateful expressions than in real life. We can therefore say that the increased possibilities have also led to increased responsibilities. In order to get their opinions conveyed to a large audience, one used to be dependent on getting through the loop of an editor. Today, each can be its own editor, and the audience will in principle be global. I think this is a fundamental change in the way you think about it. What we call out today in enthusiasm or frustration is no longer only available to the closest around us who have the same cultural codes and interpretation frameworks as ourselves, but potentially for the whole globe. It is now five years since the Media Responsibility Committee presented its investigation into the responsibilities of the media. We still have a provision on editorial responsibility that is limited to journals, magazines and broadcasts. The government has deliberately prioritised VAT for the newspapers and production subsidies recently, but we now want to facilitate the modernisation and non-discrimination of platforms, including in the area of editorial responsibility. That is why we will give priority to this in the future. How we're going to achieve this concretely, I have to get back to it, but I think it's important to mention that it's a task that's important for me to work on in the future. Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2620	When you get the possibility of an unlimited number of posts, you have to use it to say a little more. I think there have been interesting things about the new forms of publication here and how much easier and faster an actually both can get information, evaluate information and pass on information, as the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas was about. It implies a great freedom and, at the same time, an ever greater responsibility, because the great freedom means that it has never been easier for so many of us to publish, but there has never been such a risk of getting opinions on networks that will not be consistent with the general editorial responsibility that has been in force in the Norwegian press. It is clear that there is a problem that has been addressed by many people and that is very important. Then I realize that I might challenge the Chamber a little bit, but this is an initiative debate, and I think it's a little sad that the members of the Judicial Committee are not sitting here, because they have a case to deal with now that I think is problematic about the freedom of the press. I find it problematic that one should change Section 16 of the Public Service Act in such a way that more is kept secret, not only in the City Council of Oslo, but also in the City Council of Bergen and in the Municipalities of Troms, Nordland, Nord-Trøndelag and Hedmark, and this must be done because they have chosen a parliamentary form of government. But the basic thing in the community sector has been a great deal of openness. One has also worked very hard on these principles of transparency in the municipal sector, and the proposal that is now being dealt with in Stortinget goes a step in the opposite direction. Unfortunately, this could lead to a temptation for more people to choose a less transparent form of organisation. I think that is a problem that one has to take seriously also in a debate like this – even if it is basically just the members of the family and culture committee who are here. But it is a very important matter that is being dealt with in the Justice Committee, and I believe that the Storting had done a great service if we had at least exposed the matter and given it the extensive and serious treatment it deserves, that is. equivalent to a need for hearings and treatment also in a government apparatus before the Storting must take a decision on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2631	I would like to thank the House for a good debate, with many interesting considerations. What I experience is a strong desire from this room to take an even greater responsibility to ensure freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Norway, and to take the initiatives we can take, including internationally, to contribute, as we do, for example. through our delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So it's made a point that there's not exactly overcrowded in the press department. I guess we're not exactly spoiled that there's so many debates in this room either, but it's probably an expression that there's busy times and scarcity of resources in this sector too, even though it's not anybody who's represented here today at all. This is a wide theme that many people can put a lot into. There have also been considerations here that show that the debate on freedom of expression and freedom of the press is the lack of capacity and contains a wide range of important elements that it is important to discuss. It all in this room have full freedom to do. Among other things, referred to a proposal for a Document 8 which is now under consideration in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. We also have examples of other things that have been proposed, which we will have ample opportunity to discuss in the right forums, among others. proposals for amendments to the Ecooms Act. Even I have pointed out some things that I think it is important to work with in the future, for example. to call for a clean-up in Kommune-Norway with regard to the management of the Public Health Act, because we see many actors and journalists striving to access information that should have been easily accessible to citizens and the public. Then perhaps the state budget is the first – at least a very golden – to show that the good intentions of this debate are being continued. We also need to monitor very closely the developments in the VAT case, to which the Council of State referred. What comes up about new publishing platforms is an interesting debate. A large part of this great paradox is that despite the fact that freedom of expression may never have been stronger, and that we are experiencing a journalistic golden age, we also see that there is a considerable pressure on freedom of expression among public sector employees, and among people involved in the change of opinion on the Internet, for example, which shows that the need for the edited word is very clear. This debate has been a call from the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, and the call for this to be done annually. We get back to how this might possibly get a more solid form, but at least I am happy with what I experience is a cross-political agreement to take a joint responsibility for fulfilling the purpose of the Basic Law Section 100.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2646	I would also like to thank you for a good and far-reaching joint exchange of views here today. I also want to end with some positive considerations. What may have been one of the things that you've been most concerned about, and that can be a challenge – or even a little scary – here at home, is the transition to the digital. And there are at least three points that have been mentioned, and as I thought it might be nice to try to look a little positive at. One is that you and I publish ourselves – no matter how we do it – can be a challenge to the good old-fashioned editors' institute. Yes, it may be, but it is also a positive challenge, because the latest UNESCO report that addresses this point to the fact that «citizen journalism», i.e., population journalism, and «independent media», independent media, are growing as a result of the transition to the digital – and it is positive. And then there was also a little concern in some people that the local way around could disappear, and it's clear that we politicians are getting a little sad at the time, because it's very easy with that local way right there and then. But the local debate does not go away, it continues in the traditional arenas as teams and associations, in strengthened form, in cafes and libraries, but also on the Internet you will be able to find that debate. With regard to source protection, which is a very serious concern, there are technological challenges, but at the same time technological development also opens up opportunities, because encryption is possible, which means that being a source, providing information to the media, with proper encryption solutions can be made even safer than you could have done today. So there's a lot of positive things about it. A trend that is also reported is that quality journalism is something we demand and something we are willing to give a little extra for. So we don't necessarily have to be so anxious about diluting quality journalism as such – the trend points towards its survival.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2659	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2675	President! I've never mentioned this to anyone, so I can tell you: I've always been bad at homework. I was one of those who actually never did their homework – I did all the work at school. It is not a proud experience, but for me the school day was quite finished when I came home from school. Everything about the school after he was over was a burden to me. We know this is a big problem for many other elephants and too many other families. In recent years there has also been considerable research in this area. How will the Council of State ensure that the training work in the school is organised in a way that provides better learning for all the elephants, and does not contribute to strengthening social differences? That's the core of the question we're going to discuss in this little interpellant debate. Learning to read, write or calculate for the first time requires a lot of practice. More recent studies show how important training is for learning. A research group at NTNU in Trondheim published two years ago a study that concluded that innate abilities are overestimated when it comes to math learning. The researchers found support for the so-called specificity principle, which says that one gets good at exactly what one is training. The practice work is therefore one of the most important things that happens in the school. However, much of this work has been pushed out of the schoolyard and into the home. The use of homework is not regulated by the Training Act, but it is said that the school should only provide lessons for students to practice what they have learned in school. A 2012 study showed, in contrast, that one in three parents sometimes come to cards to help their children with their homework. The lessons, we can conclude with, so they don't work as they were supposed to do. In addition, we know that the lesson reinforces social differences in the school. SSB researcher Marte Rønning analysed the mathematical and natural sciences results for over 8 000 Norwegian fourth-graders. The result showed that elephants who receive lessons do a little better at school, but this context does not apply to all pupils. On the other hand, elephants with a low socio-economic background have a lot of homework, which is worse than elephants with a similar background with less homework. Several other students have similar types of findings. Among other things, John Hattie sums up that lessons can enhance low self-confidence in weak elephants, ruin the motivation and lead to bad routines attaching themselves. In particular, this applies to the very youngest students. When homework contributes to less learning for some of the students who need it the most, it's time to think about the practice in the school. More of the practice should be done in a scholastic age, with a teacher present. It is also the background that SV suggests that it is taken up to one hour daily to practice in the school, in what we have called the all-day ball, an extended school day. A positive side-effect of such a scheme is that families also get rid of homework in the evening and can spend time after school together – for other things. SV does not want a ban on homework, but the homework given must be pure rehearsal or training on something the student can already, such as reading training or simple preparation for the next day of school. We have examples of schools in Norway that have done this. The Digermulen school in Lofoten has our homework for 15 years, with very good results. Also in our neighborhood, at Solberg School in Asker, the rental has cut out written lessons and gives the students only reading lessons. We also know that there are many other examples. Several Montessori balls have introduced similar types of schemes. In countries where teachers and elephants spend a lot of time in classrooms, the impact of homework on school outcomes is greatest. A possible explanation that homework is weakly related to school outcomes in some countries — such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Norway - may be a substitute for what should be taught together in the classroom. No matter what one may think about lessons, there needs to be an open and knowledge-based debate about how the practice should be organised in order for all the elephants to learn more. Today's organization varies a lot from school to school, and too many elephants don't get enough benefit from the lessons. SV believes that the main weight of the exercise work should be moved from home to school. Those who oppose this must come with their answer. What must be done to ensure that lessons are taught to everyone? So I'm excited to be right about the Council of State's thoughts on this. I don't think we can go on like today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2708	It is tempting to wonder: When the representative Knag Fylkesnes admits that he was poor at doing homework at school, could there be any connection with him becoming a philosopher later? I did the homework with great joy, at least often. But joke aside: I think the starting point for this debate is a little different for the government parties and for SV. One of the approaches actually came up with the interpellant when he referred to the study that showed that lessons can give rise to social differences, but he also pointed out that that study showed that a lot of students learn a little more from having lessons. But then there are some students who may not initially be so strong in school, who don't learn a little bit more, and so the differences get bigger. So you can have an angle of incidence where you say that you have to eliminate the lessons, so that all those who learn a little bit more, don't learn a little bit more, so that there are less differences. Or you could have the other starting point: how are we going to make sure that those who don't learn enough, and those who have a slightly lower starting point, also get the full benefit of what they're learning at school? So the way you give lessons, and how lessons are used, is an important discussion. But let me start a little bit earlier. The interpellant does not mention it directly, but during the interpellation there are really also questions about two important principles in Norwegian school. One is that everything in Norwegian school should be adapted to the individual student. This means that you have a duty as a school owner and as a municipality and county municipality to ensure that the teaching is adapted to each student. Secondly, the objective of the Training Act states that the school should provide students with learning challenges. That doesn't mean, of course, that the school in every field should be fun for the students. Then we would have failed completely miserable, if that was our scale. But that means that the goal of education and homework is more and better learning. This is what promotes learning – not just learning things, but learning to learn, and wanting to learn more. From research we also know something about what are key prerequisites for good learning. Then, of course, here, as in most areas when we're investigating human phenomena, we have to take some reservations because research is constantly developing. But what research can now indicate is that students need to be actively involved and understand the goal and purpose of the different activities – that is, why they learn something. The students have to face challenges. So you have to have high ambitions on behalf of each student. At the same time, they must not be challenged to the point of losing their foothold. This means that both teaching and homework must be adapted to the students' different knowledge and experiences, and there must be a good learning environment that motivates the students – where it is allowed to try and where it is allowed to fail. This order says something about why it is a formidable job to be a teacher – a teacher. Of course, we're going to work well with the subjects at school, and that means you have to practice on both equations and formulas, analyze literature and discuss historical and political events. There is no one, as far as I have seen, who does not believe that practice is part of learning. I've never heard anyone say that if you're going to be good at playing the piano, you don't really have to spend time playing the piano. On the other hand, in almost all areas of the school, quality is more important than quantity. Of course, the same is true of schoolwork: it is more important how education is, and it is at least as important how homework is organised, as there is much of it. In fact, if you have too much homework, it can work against your purpose. But part of the practice that the schools are going to do, you can do as a lesson. So the crucial question is what kind of homework is given, how much is given, and how are they followed up by the teacher. For example, there should not be too much homework, and the homework should not contain too much new substance that has not been studied at school. Then it might have been tempting for us, on the part of Stortinget – or perhaps on the part of the government or Education Directorate – to give a detailed description of what the perfect lesson looked like, perhaps a circular that we sent to the schools with detailed regulations on how the lessons should be given and not given. This is contrary to the governance tradition I think we should base ourselves on when it comes to school. It was Kristin Clemet who used the slogan "School knows best," and then I also think it's the case here. The Training Act opens up quite correctly so that you can also not have practice at home if you think it makes sense, and some schools have taken the pedagogical decision, often in cooperation with the home, that that is what they want. Other schools believe that based on their good, healthy assessment, exercise work is a natural part of everyday school life. In both cases, it is vital that students learn and that they achieve the objectives of competence set out in the curriculum. It's the most important thing. We need a debate on homework, but I still think that the interpellant's question is a bit of a problem, because the question shouldn't be how the ministry can take national or central initiatives to do something about homework or find out how to do homework in the best possible way. What we can do is strengthen the overall framework of the school. We can have further education, more team building in school, we can create networks that encourage teachers to share good ideas, we can also have manuals that show what is good teaching practice, to spread it. But the very discussion of just how lessons are to be put up in the individual school, in the individual class and for the individual student is a decision that I safely leave to the sector itself. Not to say that there should not be political discussion about it, but the choice of how to organise the practice work, I leave with great certainty to the sector. SV has an honest, honest and open proposal that they want to spend the big money in School-Norway in the future at a full-day school. It's okay, and it also gives a very clear and clear political choice. From the government's side, and from the Right and Advance Party's side, we want to spend the money at school – on the content, on the subject, on teachers, on the need to strengthen education, and on the need for students to learn more – not on strengthening the offers outside the school, to create a longer day at school. The school day may be longer too, but then it must be because you fill up with subjects, with lessons, with skilled teachers, not because you have a goal in yourself that the children should sit longer on the school bench every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2734	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It gave me time to reflect a little bit on whether philosophers might be particularly foolish at homework. I never thought about that before, so now I get to go into the combo box. State suites are probably very good in homework, I guess they're proven here today. That practice and learning are closely linked, and that one has seen too little of the practice work in connection with the school, is the premise for the interpellation debate I'm travelling. Our suggestion is to give the schools time to do this in school. Today there's little time to do this at school, so when the council says it's the superiors to the frames we have to discuss, that's exactly what I'm inviting to discuss here today. We have to give the schools room – time – to do the practice in the school one hour a day. There is no need at the end of the day. It may be early in the day, or one may spread it beyond the day. It may be up to school, but they just have to have a few hours, they have to get human resources, in the form of educators, teachers, etc., to do a proper exercise at school instead of sending it home to homes that are in varying degrees able to be good helpers with the homework of the students. Therefore, this is a highly relevant discussion for Storing. It's not about saying how to organise this work, but about giving the school the opportunity to organise it, so that they get the time to do proper practice at school. I didn't think the Council of State was right to take it seriously -- that this is actually a real discussion -- especially when we don't know that practice and homework are so important to the students' way of doing it, whether it's for those who fall from it, whether it has a socio-economic background, or whether it's for parents who are unable to help. The ball knows best – yes, it could be said when a person chose to go against the SV’s proposal to stop ordering all schools of national tests. Then one could have left to the schools to determine how testing and testing, weighing and measurement in the school should be conducted. That's what we want to leave to the schools, but the council wants it to be governed by the department with the consequences it has for teaching. We want to spend the big money on teachers, which means that we can get a better school. If not to bet on teachers is to bet on the school, we're probably on different planets. I want to challenge the state council again: does the state council agree with me that how the school organizes practice, is also a political question and not something that should be left to the schools alone?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2747	Ultimately, the whole school and everything in school is a political question. But the question of $100,000 is, what is it you choose to leave to professionals, and what is it you choose to rule? I believe that the form of practice and how to do it is something that we leave to professionals. This does not mean that we should not have opinions about or spread ideas about how it can be done in the best possible way, or have expectations that schools, for example. as a professional community engages in research on how the homework works, and then acts on the basis of what the research shows, but that means that there is a decision we can leave to the schools. But then I also believe that we have a responsibility as politicians to have clear expectations of what schools are going to contribute to, and that is where the national tests are important. So I don't think I'm going to spend more time on that discussion, all the time all the games on the Stortinget, except SV, is that we're going to have national trials, and SV was probably also for the eight years they put and directed the Ministry of Knowledge. But I want to say two things. One is that I agree with the interpellant that there is room for improvement here. For example, one of the many international studies we have from the OECD is that there are good and bad ways of teaching. In 2010, the SSB published an analysis demonstrating that pupils with a low socio-economic background who receive a lot of homework are performing less well than students with a similar background who receive less homework. Then you can ask the question: What kind of practice is there with the homework? Is it like giving lessons instead of explaining things in the classroom? Is it the case that teachers in Norway follow up lessons to a lesser extent, and in that case you do not get the learning outcomes you need? All these are things that the profession needs to reflect on, and that we should contribute to spreading good examples of. But then the second point: the representative Fylkesnes says we have to put this into school. If you assume that SV's proposal is that we should have one lesson every day – I guess SV doesn't want it to be with unskilled assistants, but with skilled teachers, and we don't have to discuss the price tag here now – I also suppose that to get full learning outcomes, you should have a Norwegian teacher when you do your Norwegian lessons, a math teacher when you do your math clothes, and one with depression in art and crafts when you do homework in art and crafts. Instead, I would have thought that if you were to spend money in an extra hour first, and you would need a Norwegian teacher there – yes, make an extra Norwegian hour! And then we can keep the homework on top and give it the right way. Then the students get a little bit more practice, and then they can learn a little bit more in school. My problem with SV's policy is that in reality, in this context, there is no attempt to discuss the lessons at different scales and at different angles of incidence. SV isn't really for homework, and it's a very honest thing. I'm for homework, but I think the schools should be allowed to choose it away if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2760	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate, a debate that has been so far raised in several forums, and which I also experience is a rather interesting invitation to discuss what creates learning, and what kind of bets we want. There is an important debate in this House, and that is a debate I would like to welcome. So we know from research, as the interpellant itself also points out, that with all probability – and according to most research reports – students learn more from having homework than from not having homework. The representative himself referred to researcher John Hattie. Now I have been in some debates with the interpellant before about researcher John Hattie where he has shown that not only should you listen to researcher John Hattie, but in this case also John Hattie particularly demonstrates that the students who are the oldest at school, learn from having homework. I think it would be very strange if we in Norwegian school were to remove an instrument that the students learned from. Interpellant showed in his post that some students are dropping out of school. Well, I'm going to venture the claim that no students have dropped out of school because others have done well at school. I'm absolutely sure that if you're going to prevent the drop-out, you have to help those who are struggling at school. It makes no sense to hold back those who have the learning outcomes of an action, just because the distance between students is going to be smaller. It can almost seem like the interpellantan logic suggests that it's better that the distance is smaller and everyone learns less than that everyone learns as much as they can, but the distance might increase somewhat. The second paradox is that, as we know, in Norwegian school — and this applies not only to Norwegian school, but to many schools, in fact, especially in Norway — parents’ background and level of education are involved in how their children perform at school. Of course, it's also because in a school that might treat students too much, what happens when you get home from school will be what determines how well you perform. My claim is that if the interpellant got his will, removing the homework, and those children came home without homework, parents with high education and very high ambitions on behalf of their children would not stop hanging on their children. They would still be pressured to read more at home and learn more at home. I don't mean that it's a problem, but I just mean that the only thing you can do is remove the homework then, probably is to increase the distance further, because it'll still be important what happens when you get home. Then we also know how important it is that there is a good bond between school and home. Lessons are a very important bond, simply because it means that parents will be up-to-date on where the children are in the curriculum, and it will be a very important tool for the teacher to keep in touch with their parents, not only about how the students are doing socially but also professionally. I think it's an important tool. As many teachers and parents also tell us, they want closer contact between school and home than we have today. Then it's very stupid to remove the most important bond between school and home. Finally, I just have to get to the point of what the interpellant had to say, that they wanted to remove the national tests and instead let the schools decide for themselves. Well, that's not quite right, because it was suggested that they should only be allowed to conduct screening tests if the teachers agreed. This will deprive the school owners, school managers and parents of a very important tool, without any new ones coming. Finally, it is worth remembering that homework is not required today either. I think there's a reason that a lot of educators, teachers, school managers, school owners and parents are followers of homework. It's that there's a tool you use to create learning — it helps more students learn more — and there's an important bond between school and home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2777	The representative Knag County touches an important area in its interpellation. The Progress Party does not believe that there is any simple solution to these challenges. It is not an unconditional yes or an unconditional no that there are lessons that lead to the big difference as to whether we are able to lift Norwegian school and Norwegian education or not. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. Social differences exist and will always exist. Parents are different and children are different. Unfortunately, egalitarian Norway with free one-stop schools reproduces social differences as effectively as more pronounced class societies as the United States and England. Researcher Marte Rønning, who was also involved in the interpellant, has conducted several studies in recent years on the effectiveness of homework in Norway and Europe. Her conclusion is that homeworkers have a small but positive effect on school outcomes. But the effect is negative for students from poor resources at home. The explanation might be that homework is sometimes given as a substitute for something you really should have learned in the classroom. Then homework is not worth much to many students. School-related students have the ability to concentrate and take responsibility for their homework. They've learned to control a little bit of their own time, and it's positive. Even Norwegian children must be able to learn to work independently, and not everything should be fun and play. In addition, exercise is healthy and gives mastery feeling, which many children appreciate. Then it's a fact that a certain proportion of children are not as good at school and have parents who are not at all powerful, capable, or motivated to follow up the students in the same way as others. But to conclude the lessons solely for the sake of this group, is to cut very many students over one comb. Lessons should be retained for the benefit of the vast majority of users of just lessons. We can't escape the fact that Norwegian students are still mediocre in crucial subjects like mathematics, reading and science. For a country that needs to feed more and more on knowledge, this is not to live with. Norwegian students need to get better – and they will – among other things. through independent exercises and repetitions, namely homework. Another important advantage of homework, which the representative Asheim also had in mind, is that it is a good tool for contacting home school. Parents come into direct contact with the schoolwork of their children and get a better basis and opportunity for dialogue with both children and teachers. While a regular working week at high school in 1987 was 15.8 hours, today's children are supposed to sit behind the desk for 19.7 hours, every week. During the same period, children’s holidays are also cut by one week. In addition, as you know, they start one year earlier at school than they did in 1987. With this in mind, we believe that extended school days and forced homework beyond normal school hours are not the way to go for school-ridden students. Instead, the time spent at school needs to be better exploited and resources used to adapt students to the needs of education required by the Training Act. Quality is more important than quantity. Here, the effort for those who labor the most must be put in. With quality time in school, students who are struggling with schoolwork will also improve their learning situation, and they will be able to benefit from rehearsals in the form of lectures, given that they are given in the form of rehearsals and not as new drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2798	I would like to thank representatives from the Right and the Advance Party for their excellent contributions. It surprises me that no longer is taking part in this discussion. When you look at the effect and the value of and how much time is spent on homework in school today, you can see that this is actually quite a part of Norwegian schooling policy. I would say that lessons are in the blindsona of Norwegian schooling – a theme that rarely gets discussed, but has a big place, and that plays a big role in the everyday life of Norwegian school. And there's a reason to do some precision here: what we're talking about here is the mandatory exercise. So, if there are parents who want to practice a little extra home, SV won't come home and knock on the door and say, 'Now you have to stop!' They will be allowed to do as much as they like. You can practice as much as you like. What's going on here is the mandatory exercise. In my opinion, we should mainly be at school, so that there is another type of exercise that can be done at home, like for example. reading and the type of tasks. Someone claimed that this is good for the contact between the school and the home. No, that's not it. I really want to see something that shows that lessons work very well, as a good contact to have between school and home. When one of three parents says they're going to play cards, there's at least one third who's struggling to help the student at home, and that's not very good. When you can't help your own daughter or your own son with homework, you have a rather bad relationship between school and home. Let's be quite honest with you in this discussion: Training with pedagogues at school is better than all practice at home with parents. It's just as if someone's pretending it's actually better to practice schoolwork at home — it can be almost right during the debate in some articles. I think I'm a camouflage because you don't want to prioritize this. When it comes to the problem, this is a matter of priority: is there a willingness to spend money in this area of schoolwork? Is one willing to spend money on more teachers, so you can have a longer school day? Openbert will have a lot to say for the very best, for those with challenges – this will be a strength for everyone. And when it comes to the point that one should leave to professionals: Yes, leave to professionals – then we would have national selection tests. Leave it to professionals - we wouldn't have any K in KRLE. Leave to professionals – then we had at least 30 minutes of physical activity etc., etc. This is a purely priority debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2813	That's what you often talk about with 'a lie, a forebast lies and statistics'. I think the interpellant might have to be a little more careful with the statistics, because the interpellant writes that ‘a 2012 study, however, showed that one in three parents sometimes comes to a close when they are going to help the children with the homework’. Let me say it like this: it might be a big problem, or it might be a little bit of a problem. It is likely to be a major problem for fewer than one in three parents. It may be a small problem because: it's possible it's just me, but you can't do everything through the entire elementary school syllabus or high school syllabus so well that you can help your children with any homework, and that sometimes you get short – I guess most people will experience that day. I think so. Then it can be a big problem if it is that all schools in Norway provide lessons that require parents to help. That's perhaps what the interpellant is also trying to get into, that if you give lessons in a way that requires your children to learn new drugs at home, and therefore depends on who their parents are, and what skills they have in the field of learning about, then you have a problem. And that's also a bad way to give lessons. I have no problem joining a hundred percent to what the interpellant says is that of course it is better to have an hour of practice – or school, as it is also called – with skilled educators than to have it with non-skilled parents. If we didn't mean it, we could put anyone in the Norwegian classroom. At least then we would not have had to have any qualifications for teachers, or be on guard for the profession, or for example. together with the majority parties on Stortinget give 50 million. kr, so that teachers who work in school but do not have pedagogy will have an opportunity to take it. Then all that had been pointless. What I don't fully understand about SV's priorities is that when you're really talking about an extra hour of mathematics, Norwegian, art and crafts or something like that in school, why don't you get an extra hour of class at school, with skilled teachers, and then discuss – at the top – how to do the homework. I think that's the sensible way to expand school day, to look at: what are the kids need? Is it that an extra hour will give you more learning? In that case, I think that's something we need to discuss, and then I want to give it a higher priority than many other things that aren't about the core of school day. I also want to say, at the end of the day, that if we're going to break the vicious circle, which is about the school being too much dependent on who your parents are, we're dependent on going a little deeper than just saying that we're going to let those who practice, practice, and those who don't practice don't practice, because just there's something of the nucleus. Thank you very much for a very exciting discussion, although I agree that too few participants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2830	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7-10 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The cases relate to the second processing of legal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2879	No one has asked for the floor on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2886	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2907	In Case No: 3–6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e2914	Case No. 7–10 is the second time that laws are dealt with by law and apply to decisions 70–73. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-26.ana.ud1465e3037	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? It hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
